CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    Department of Natural Resources

    Energy and Carbon Management Commission

    PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

    2 CCR 404-1

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    100 SERIES DEFINITIONS

    ABANDONED WELL means a Well or wellbore whose use has been permanently
    discontinued or which is in a state of disrepair such that it cannot be used for its
    intended purpose or for observation purposes.

    ACT shall mean the Oil and Gas Conservation Act of the State of Colorado.

    AFFECTED PERSON means any person who satisfies the requirements of Rule 507.a.

    ALLOCATED GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE means any Geothermal Resource that is
    associated with nontributary groundwater.

           A.     ALLOCATED GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE does not include groundwater
                  in the Denver Basin Aquifers.

    ANCILLARY HEAT PRODUCTION means the use of any heat extracted with produced
    fluids in an Oil and Gas Operation if the heat is only utilized to reduce emissions from
    the operation in the same Location as the Well from which it was produced and would
    otherwise not be economically feasible as a standalone geothermal resource project.

    ANNULAR OVER-PRESSURIZATION means a wellbore condition that occurs when
    fluids in the annulus between the surface casing and the intermediate or production
    casings are pressurized to a degree that may cause migration of confined fluids or
    gases out of the annular space.

    ANNULUS means the space between the borehole and a casing string or between two
    casing strings in a well.

    APPLICANT shall mean the person who institutes a proceeding before the Commission
    which it has standing to institute under these rules.

    AQUIFER shall mean a geologic formation, group of formations or part of a formation
    that can both store and transmit ground water. It includes both the saturated and
    unsaturated zone but does not include the confining layer which separates two (2)
    adjacent aquifers.




                                                                                           1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

AREA OF EVALUATION means a defined geographic area or areas in which
operations regulated by the Commission pursuant to the Act have the potential to
contribute to Cumulative Impacts. The Commission will determine the Area of
Evaluation for a particular proposed operation based on the nature, intensity, and scope
of the operation in its proposed location and the geographic extent of potential impacts.

AUTHORIZED DEPUTY shall mean a representative of the Director as authorized by
the Commission.

AUTHORIZATION TO INJECT means approval granted by the Director to inject
Injection Carbon Dioxide into a Class VI UIC Well.

AVAILABLE WATER SOURCE shall mean a water source for which the water well
owner, owner of a spring, or a land owner, as applicable, has given consent for
sampling and testing and has consented to having the sample data obtained made
available to the public, including without limitation, being posted on the COGCC
website.

AVOID ADVERSE IMPACTS means to differentially select alternative locations,
practices, or methods for Oil and Gas Operations based on site-specific circumstances,
so that those operations will not cause quantifiable direct, indirect, or cumulative
adverse impacts to the potentially affected resource(s). Avoidance may include a no
action alternative.

BARREL shall mean 42 (U.S.) gallons at 60° F. at atmospheric pressure.

BASE FLUID shall mean the continuous phase fluid type, such as water, used in a
hydraulic fracturing treatment.

BATTERY shall mean the point of collection (tanks) and disbursement (tank, meter,
LACT unit) of oil or gas from producing well(s).

BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) are practices that are designed to prevent
or reduce impacts caused by oil and gas operations or deep geothermal operations to
air, water, soil, or Biological Resources, and to minimize adverse impacts to public
health, safety and welfare, including the environment and wildlife resources.

BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES means all invertebrates and rare plants, and their aquatic
and terrestrial habitats, including components of those habitats necessary and
reasonable to promote self-sustaining populations.

BRADENHEAD shall mean the annular space between the surface casing and the next
smaller diameter casing string that extends up to the wellhead.

BRADENHEAD TEST AREA shall mean any area designated as a bradenhead test
area by the Commission under Rule 207.b.




                                                                                        2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

BREAKOUT TANK means a tank used to either relieve surges in a liquid hydrocarbon
pipeline system or receive and store liquid hydrocarbons transported by a pipeline for
reinjection or continued transportation by pipeline.

BRUNOT AREA has the meaning set forth in 29-20-403(2), C.R.S.

BUILDING UNIT shall mean a Residential Building Unit; and every five thousand
(5,000) square feet of building floor area in commercial facilities or every fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet of building floor area in warehouses that are operating
and normally occupied during working hours.

CARBON DIOXIDE FLOWLINE means a segment of pipe transferring Injection Carbon
Dioxide to or within a Geologic Storage Facility. Carbon Dioxide Flowline does not
include pipelines regulated by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration of the United States Department of Transportation or the Public Utilities
Commission.

CARBON DIOXIDE PLUME means the extent underground, in three dimensions, of an
injected Carbon Dioxide Stream.

CARBON DIOXIDE STREAM means Injection Carbon Dioxide, plus incidental
associated substances derived from the source materials and the capture process, and
any substances added to the stream to enable or improve the injection process. Carbon
Dioxide Stream does not include any Carbon Dioxide Stream that meets the definition of
a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. Part 261. Only the version of 40 C.F.R. Part 261 in
effect as of the effective date of these Rules applies to this Rule; later amendments do
not apply. 40 C.F.R. Part 261 is available for public inspection during normal business
hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available online at
https://www.ecfr.gov/.

CASH BOND means United States currency provided to the Commission as Financial
Assurance, including certificates of deposit and money market accounts. A Cash Bond
may be expended by the Commission if an Operator fails to perform its Plugging and
Abandonment, Reclamation, or Remediation obligations. The Operator providing a
Cash Bond has no contract or property interest in the Cash Bond other than a
contingent reversionary interest in the surplus, if any, which arises after the Director has
determined that the Operator has complied with all Plugging and Abandonment,
Reclamation, and Remediation obligations pursuant to Rule 706.a, or after a Buying
Operator has filed a satisfactory replacement Financial Assurance pursuant to Rule
218.g.(4). A Cash Bond is not intended as cash collateral as defined in 11 U.S.C. §
363(a).

CASING means a pipe or tubing of appropriate material, of varying diameter and
weight, lowered into a borehole during or after drilling in order to support the sides of the




                                                                                           3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

hole and thus prevent the walls from caving, to prevent loss of drilling mud into porous
ground, or to prevent water, gas, or other Fluid from entering or leaving the hole.

CDPHE means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

CEASE AND DESIST ORDER shall mean an order issued by the Commission or the
Director pursuant to C.R.S. §34-60-121(5).

CEMENT shall be measured in 94-pound sacks.

CEMENTING means the operation whereby a cement slurry is pumped into a drilled
hole and/or forced behind the Casing.

CENTRALIZED E&P WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY means a facility, other than a
commercial disposal facility regulated by CDPHE, that (1) is either used exclusively by
one owner or Operator or used by more than one Operator under an operating
agreement; and (2) is operated for a period greater than three years; and (3) receives
for collection, treatment, temporary storage, and/or disposal of Produced Water, drilling
fluids, completion fluids, and any other exempt E&P Wastes that are generated from
two or more production units or areas or from a set of commonly owned or operated
leases. This definition includes oilfield naturally occurring radioactive materials
(“NORM”) related storage, decontamination, treatment, or disposal. This definition
includes permanent, standalone centralized facilities operated for the storage or
treatment of Produced Water. This definition excludes a Multi-Well Pit that meets the
standards of Rules 909.g.(2)-(3) and excludes temporary onsite Produced Water or
storage treatment facilities for recycling or reuse of Produced Water at that Well Site or
nearby Well Sites.

CHEMICAL(S) shall mean any element, chemical compound, or mixture of elements or
compounds that has its own specific name or identity such as a chemical abstract
service number, whether or not such chemical is subject to the requirements of 29 Code
of Federal Regulations §1910.1200(g)(2) (2011).

CHEMICAL ABSTRACTS SERVICE shall mean the division of the American Chemical
Society that is the globally recognized authority for information on chemical substances.

CHEMICAL ABSTRACTS SERVICE NUMBER OR CAS NUMBER shall mean the
unique identification number assigned to a chemical by the chemical abstracts service.

CHEMICAL DISCLOSURE REGISTRY shall mean the chemical registry website known
as fracfocus.org developed by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate
Oil and Gas Compact Commission. If such website becomes permanently inoperable,
then chemical disclosure registry shall mean another publicly accessible information
website that is designated by the Commission.

CHEMICAL FAMILY shall mean a group of chemicals that share similar chemical
properties and have a common general name.




                                                                                           4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

CHEMICAL INVENTORY means a list of the Chemical Products (including safety data
sheets) brought to a Well Site for use downhole during drilling, completion, and
workover operations, including fracture stimulations, and the maximum capacity of fuel
stored on the Oil and Gas Location during those operations. The Chemical Inventory will
include how much of the Chemical Product was used, how it was used, and when it was
used.

CHEMICAL PRODUCT shall mean any substance consisting of one or more constituent
chemicals that is marketed or sold as a commodity. Chemical Products shall not include
substances that are known to be entirely benign, innocuous, or otherwise harmless,
such as sand, walnut shells, and similar natural substances.

CHILD CARE CENTER means a child care center as defined in § 26-6-102(5), C.R.S.,
that is in operation at the time of the pre-application notice pursuant to Rule 305.a.(4). A
child care center will include any associated outdoor play areas adjacent to or directly
accessible from the center and is fenced or has natural barriers, such as hedges or
stationary walls, at least four (4) feet high demarcating its boundary.

CLASSIFIED WATER SUPPLY SEGMENT means surface waters classified as being
suitable or intended to become suitable for potable water supplies by the Colorado
Water Quality Control Commission, pursuant to the Regulation Number 31, Basic
Standards and Methodologies for Surface Water Regulations, 5 C.C.R. § 1002-31
(“WQCC Regulation 31”), except for ephemeral streams. Specific determinations of
segments classified for the water supply use are documented in the WQCC’s basin
regulations, 5 C.C.R. §§ 1002-32–38. Only the versions of WQCC Regulations 31–38
that are in effect as of January 15, 2021 apply; later versions do not apply. WQCC
Regulations 31–38 are available for public inspection during normal business hours
from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, WQCC Regulations 31–38 may
be examined at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300
Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and are available at
https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/water-quality-control-commission-regulations.

CLASS II UIC WELL means Wells which inject Fluids:

       a.     Which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas storage
              operations, or conventional oil or natural gas production and may be
              commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part
              of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a
              hazardous waste at the time of injection; and

       b.     For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas.

CLASS VI CORRECTIVE ACTION means the use of Director-approved methods to
ensure that Wells within the Geologic Storage Area of Review do not serve as conduits
for the movement of Fluids into Underground Sources of Drinking Water (USDW).




                                                                                           5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

CLASS VI DEVELOPMENT PLAN means a plan to develop a Geologic Storage Facility
for the purposes of injecting Injection Carbon Dioxide at one or more Geologic Storage
Locations, consistent with the 1400-Series Rules.

CLOSED-LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM means a Deep Geothermal Operation in
which a Material Medium is circulated inside an interconnected sealed system, and
which neither produces nor injects Geothermal Fluids from or to the subsurface
formation.

COLORADO ENVIROSCREEN means the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment’s interactive environmental justice mapping tool. Only Colorado
EnviroScreen Version 2.0 (November 2024) applies; later amendments do not apply.
Colorado EnviroScreen may be examined at Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is available
online at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/enviroscreen.

COMMENCEMENT OF PRODUCTION OPERATIONS means the date that product
consistently flows to a sales line, Gathering Line, or Tank from a Well.

COMMERCIAL BUILDING UNIT means a building that is designated for business and
produces income, including but not limited to an office building, retail space, restaurant,
or hotel. Commercial Building Unit does not include Residential Building Units, Industrial
Facilities, warehouses, or office buildings dedicated to and co-located with Industrial
Facilities.

COMMERCIAL DISPOSAL WELL means a Class II UIC Well that receives Class II
Exploration and Production Waste from multiple non-owner Operators.

COMMISSION means the Energy and Carbon Management Commission of the State of
Colorado.

COMMUNITY LIAISON means a member of the Director’s staff dedicated as a resource
for Disproportionately Impacted Communities regarding Commission regulation.

COMPENSATORY MITIGATION PLAN means a plan submitted pursuant to Rule
1203.b to offset the direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts to Wildlife
Resources from Oil and Gas Operations or Deep Geothermal Operations. A
Compensatory Mitigation Plan may be one component of a Wildlife Mitigation Plan
submitted pursuant to Rules 304.c.(17) & 1201.b.

COMPLETED WELL means a Well in which oil, gas, or Geothermal Resources are
produced through wellhead equipment from the producing interval(s) after the
production string has been installed.

COMPLETION An oil well shall be considered completed when the first new oil is
produced through wellhead equipment into lease tanks from the ultimate producing
interval after the production string has been run. A gas well shall be considered
completed when the well is capable of producing gas through wellhead equipment from



                                                                                         6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

the ultimate producing zone after the production string has been run. A Deep
Geothermal Well will be considered completed when the first Geothermal Resource is
produced through wellhead equipment, except for Geothermal Injection Wells which will
be considered completed 90 days after reaching total depth or when the Operator
receives authorization to inject. A dry hole shall be considered completed when all
provisions of plugging are complied with as set out in these rules. Any well not
previously defined as an Oil or Gas Well or a Deep Geothermal Well, shall be
considered completed ninety (90) days after reaching total depth. If approved by the
Director, a Well that requires extensive testing shall be considered completed when the
drilling rig is released or six months after reaching total depth, whichever is later.

COMPREHENSIVE AREA PLAN (CAP) means a plan created by one or more
Operator(s) covering future Oil and Gas Operations and addressing Cumulative Impacts
in a defined geographic area.

COMPREHENSIVE DRILLING PLAN shall mean a plan created by one or more
operator(s) covering future oil and gas operations in a defined geographic area within a
geologic basin. The Plan may (a) identify natural features of the geographic area,
including vegetation, wildlife resources, and other attributes of the physical environment;
(b) describe the operator’s future oil and gas operations in the area; (c) identify potential
impacts from such operations; (d) develop agreed-upon measures to avoid, minimize,
and mitigate the identified potential impacts; and (e) include other relevant information.

CONFINING LAYER means that portion of a separate stratigraphic layer that acts as an
effective impermeable barrier to the vertical migration of gases or other fluids into any
separate strata or zones that contain groundwater.

CONFINING ZONE means a geologic Formation, group of Formations, or part of a
Formation stratigraphically overlying the Injection Zone(s) that acts as a barrier to Fluid
movement. For Class VI UIC Wells operating under an injection depth waiver, Confining
Zone means a geologic Formation, group of Formations, or part of a Formation
stratigraphically overlying and underlying the Injection Zone(s).

CONTAINER shall mean any portable device in which a hazardous material is stored,
transported, treated, disposed of, or otherwise handled. Examples include, but are not
limited to, drums, barrels, totes, carboys, and bottles.

CONTAMINANT means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or
matter in water.

CORNERING AND CONTIGUOUS UNITS when used in reference to an exception
location shall mean those lands which make up the unit(s) immediately adjacent to and
toward which a well is encroaching upon established setbacks.

CPW means the Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife.

CROP LAND shall mean lands which are cultivated, mechanically or manually
harvested, or irrigated for vegetative agricultural production.



                                                                                           7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

CRUDE OIL TRANSFER LINE means a piping system that is not regulated or subject
to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 195 Subpart A, and
that transfers crude oil, crude oil emulsion or condensate from more than one well site
or production facility to a production facility with permanent storage capacity greater
than 25,000 barrels of crude oil or condensate or a PHMSA gathering system. 49 C.F.R.
§ 195 Subpart A, in existence as of the date of this regulation and not including later
amendments, is available for public inspection during normal business hours from the
Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
801, Denver, Colorado 80203. Additionally, 49 C.F.R. § 195 Subpart A may be found at
https://www.phmsa.dot.gov.

CUBIC FOOT of gas shall mean the volume of gas contained in one cubic foot of space
at a standard pressure base and a standard temperature base. The standard pressure
base shall be 14.73 psia, and the standard temperature base shall be 60° Fahrenheit.

CUMULATIVE IMPACTS means the effects on public health and the environment,
including the impacts to air quality, water quality, climate, noise, odor, wildlife, and
Biological Resources, caused by the incremental impacts that a proposed new or
amended operation regulated by the Commission pursuant to the Act would have when
added to the impacts from other past, present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future
Development of any type on the Area of Evaluation or on a Disproportionately Impacted
Community. Cumulative Impacts may include both adverse and beneficial
environmental impacts.

CUTTINGS TRENCH means a depression used specifically for the onsite storage and
disposal of dried cuttings generated from drilling a Well.

D–J BASIN FOX HILLS PROTECTION AREA shall mean that area of the State
consisting of Townships 5 South through Townships 5 North, Ranges 58 West through
70 West, and Township 6 South, Ranges 65 West through 70 West.

DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATION or DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS means:

      A.     Any exploration for or production of:

             I.     Allocated Geothermal Resources; or

             II.    Geothermal Resources that are deeper than 2,500 feet below the
                    surface.

      B.     DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATION includes the following activities
             related to the operation of a Deep Geothermal Well:

             I.     Conducting geophysical operations; drilling test bores and
                    monitoring wells; siting; installing and operating Flowlines; drilling;
                    deepening; recompleting; reworking; repurposing; and Plugging
                    and Abandoning.



                                                                                              8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              II.    DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATION also includes any
                     constructing, site preparing, disposing of geothermal wastes, or
                     reclaiming activities associated with the activities described in Part
                     B.I. of this definition.

       C.     DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATION does not include:

              I.     Any exploration or production activities associated with the
                     groundwater in the Denver Basin Aquifers; or

              II.    Ancillary Heat Production.

       D.     DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATION does not include any exploration or
              production activities for Allocated Geothermal Resources or Geothermal
              Resources that are deeper than 2,500 feet below the surface conducted
              by a federally recognized Indian tribe or an entity owned or controlled by
              such tribe within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation.

DENVER BASIN AQUIFERS means the Dawson, Denver, Arapahoe, and Laramie-Fox
Hills Aquifers, as described in the rules adopted by the State Engineer pursuant to
Section 37-90-137(9)(A) and (9)(B), C.R.S.

DESIGNATED AGENT, when used herein shall mean the designated representative of
any producer, operator, transporter, refiner, gasoline or other extraction plant operator,
or initial purchaser.

DESIGNATED OUTSIDE ACTIVITY AREA: Upon Application and Hearing, the
Commission, in its discretion, may establish a Designated Outside Activity Area (DOAA)
for:

       (i)    an outdoor venue or recreation area, such as a playground, permanent
              sports field, amphitheater, or other similar place of public assembly owned
              or operated by a local government, which the local government seeks to
              have established as a Designated Outside Activity Area; or




       (ii)   an outdoor venue or recreation area, such as a playground, permanent
              sports field, amphitheater, or other similar place of public assembly where
              ingress to, or egress from the venue could be impeded in the event of an
              emergency condition at an Oil and Gas Location less than three hundred
              and fifty (350) feet from the venue due to the configuration of the venue
              and the number of persons known or expected to simultaneously occupy
              the venue on a regular basis.




                                                                                              9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

The Commission shall determine whether to establish a Designated Outside Activity
Area and, if so, the appropriate boundaries for the DOAA based on the totality of
circumstances and consistent with the purposes of the Oil and Gas Conservation Act.

DESIGNATED SETBACK LOCATION shall mean any Oil and Gas Location upon
which any Well or Production Facility is or will be situated within, a Buffer Zone Setback
(1,000 feet), or an Exception Zone Setback (500 feet), or within one thousand (1,000)
feet of a High Occupancy Building Unit or a Designated Outside Activity Area, as
referenced in Rule 604. The measurement for determining any Designated Setback
Location shall be the shortest distance between any existing or proposed Well or
Production Facility on the Oil and Gas Location and the nearest edge or corner of any
Building Unit, nearest edge or corner of any High Occupancy Building Unit, or nearest
boundary of any Designated Outside Activity Area.

DIRECTOR means the Director of the Energy and Carbon Management Commission of
the State of Colorado or any member of the Director's staff authorized to represent the
Director.

DIRECTOR’S RECOMMENDATION means the Director’s written recommendation to
the Commission about whether to approve or deny an Oil and Gas Development Plan
pursuant to Rule 306, whether to approve or deny a Comprehensive Area Plan pursuant
to Rule 314.g., whether to approve or deny a permit application for Deep Geothermal
Operations pursuant to Rule 1305, or whether to approve or deny a permit for a
Geothermal Resource Unit pursuant to Rule 1309.

DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED COMMUNITY means those communities and
census block groups that meet the definition in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (2024).

DISTRIBUTED GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE means any Geothermal Resource that is
not an Allocated Geothermal Resource.

DOMESTIC GAS WELL shall mean a gas well that produces solely for the use of the
surface owner. The gas produced cannot be sold, traded or bartered.

DOMESTIC TAP means an individual gas service line directly connected to a flowline.

DRILLING AND SPACING UNIT means, consistent with § 34-60-116, C.R.S., lands
allocated by the Commission to a single Well or multiple Wells for mineral development
under a spacing order.

      WELLBORE SPACING UNIT means a Drilling and Spacing Unit for a single Well
      where the unit overlaps at least one existing Drilling and Spacing Unit or
      Wellbore Spacing Unit.

DRILLING PITS shall mean those pits used during drilling operations and initial
completion of a well, and include:




                                                                                        10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      ANCILLARY PITS used to contain fluids during drilling operations and initial
      completion procedures, such as circulation pits and water storage pits.

      COMPLETION PITS used to contain fluids and solids produced during initial
      completion procedures, and not originally constructed for use in drilling
      operations.

      FLOWBACK PITS used to contain fluids and solids produced during initial
      completion procedures.

      RESERVE PITS used to store drilling fluids for use in drilling operations or to
      contain E&P waste generated during drilling operations and initial completion
      procedures.

DWR means the Colorado Division of Water Resources, and is also referred to as the
“State Engineer.”

EMERGENCY ORDER shall mean an order issued by the Commission pursuant to
C.R.S. §34-60-108(3).

EMERGENCY SITUATION for purposes of C.R.S. §34-60-121(5) and the rules
promulgated thereunder shall mean a fact situation which presents an immediate
danger to public health, safety or welfare.

ENERGY AND CARBON MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS means all operations
regulated by the Commission.

ENERGY AND CARBON MANAGEMENT OPERATOR means any person that
exercises the right to control the conduct of Energy and Carbon Management
Operations.

ENHANCED SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES (ESPs) means equipment, methods, or
other operational techniques that are designed to avoid, minimize, and mitigate
emissions of ozone precursors from Oil and Gas Operations.

ENTERPRISE BOARD means the board of the orphaned wells mitigation enterprise
created by §34-60-133(3), C.R.S.

EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

EXEMPTED AQUIFER means an Aquifer or its portion that meets the criteria in the
definition of Underground Source of Drinking Water but which has been exempted
pursuant to Rule 802 or Rule 1402.

EXPERIMENTAL TECHNOLOGY means a technology which has not been proven
feasible under the conditions in which it is being tested.




                                                                                        11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION WASTE (E&P WASTE) shall mean those wastes
associated with operations to locate or remove oil, gas, or Geothermal Resources from
the ground or to remove impurities from such substances and which are uniquely
associated with and intrinsic to oil and gas or geothermal exploration, development, or
production operations that are exempt from regulation under Subtitle C of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 USC Sections 6921, et seq. For natural
gas, primary field operations include those production-related activities at or near the
wellhead and at the gas plant (regardless of whether or not the gas plant is at or near
the wellhead), but prior to transport of the natural gas from the gas plant to market. In
addition, uniquely associated wastes derived from the production stream along the gas
plant feeder pipelines are considered E&P Wastes, even if a change of custody in the
natural gas has occurred between the wellhead and the gas plant. In addition, wastes
uniquely associated with the operations to recover natural gas from underground
storage fields are considered to be E&P Waste.

FACILITY means any Deep Geothermal Facility, any Geologic Storage Facility, or any
Oil and Gas Facility.

      DEEP GEOTHERMAL FACILITY means equipment or improvements used or
      installed at a Deep Geothermal Location for the exploration, production,
      withdrawal, treatment, processing, or injection of Geothermal Resources,
      Geothermal Fluids, water, or E&P Waste.

      GEOLOGIC STORAGE FACILITY means that specific part of the Geologic
      Storage Resource which is utilized for Geologic Storage, together with the Class
      VI UIC Well and all surface equipment and disturbances associated with the
      Geologic Storage Operations at the Geologic Storage Location. Geologic
      Storage Facility does not include pipelines regulated by the Pipeline and
      Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of
      Transportation or the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.

      OIL AND GAS FACILITY means equipment or improvements used or installed at
      an Oil and Gas Location primarily for the exploration, production, withdrawal,
      treatment, or processing of crude oil, condensate, E&P Waste, or gas, including
      the use of any heat extracted with produced fluids.

FAULT means a surface or zone of rock fracture along which there has been
displacement.

FIELD shall mean the general area which is underlaid or appears to be underlaid by at
least one pool; and “field” shall include the underground reservoir or reservoirs
containing oil or gas or both. The words “field” and “pool” mean the same thing when
only one underground reservoir is involved; however, “field”, unlike “pool”, may relate to
two or more pools.

FINANCIAL ASSURANCE means a Surety Bond, Cash Bond, Letter of Credit, sinking
fund, Third-Party Trust Fund, escrow account, lien on property, security interest, or




                                                                                        12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

other instrument or method accepted by the Commission to ensure an Operator is able
to perform its obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules pursuant to Rule
701.

FIRST AID TREATMENT shall mean using a non-prescription medication at non-
prescription strength; administering tetanus immunizations; cleaning, flushing, or
soaking wounds on the surface of the skin; using wound coverings such as bandages,
gauze pads, or butterfly bandages; using hot or cold therapy; using any non-rigid means
of support such as elastic bandages; using temporary immobilization devices when
transporting an accident victim; drilling of a fingernail or toenail to relieve pressure or
draining fluid from a blister; using eye patches; removing foreign bodies from the eye
using only irrigation or a cotton swab; removing splinters or foreign material from areas
other than the eye by irrigation, tweezers, cotton swabs, or other simple means; using
finger guards; using massages; or drinking fluids for the relief of heat stress.

FLARING means the combustion of natural gas during upstream Oil and Gas
Operations, excluding gas that is intentionally used for onsite processes.

FLOODPLAIN shall mean any area of land officially declared to be in a 100 year
floodplain by any Colorado Municipality, Colorado County, State Agency, or Federal
Agency.

FLOWBACK means the process of allowing Fluids and entrained solids to flow from a
Well following Stimulation, either in preparation for a subsequent phase of treatment or
in preparation for cleanup and placing the Well into production. The term Flowback also
means the Fluids and entrained solids that emerge from a Well during the Flowback
process.

FLOWLINE means a segment of pipe transferring oil, gas, condensate, or Geothermal
Resources between a wellhead and processing equipment to the load point or point of
delivery to a U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials
Safety Administration or Colorado Public Utilities Commission regulated gathering line
or a segment of pipe transferring produced water or Geothermal Resources between a
wellhead and the point of disposal, discharge, loading, or use. This definition of flowline
does not include a gathering line. The different types of flowlines are:

       Wellhead Line means a flowline that transfers well production fluids from an oil
       or gas well to process equipment (e.g., separator, production separator, tank,
       heater treater), not including pre-conditioning equipment such as sand traps and
       line heaters, which do not materially reduce line pressure.

       Production Piping means a segment of pipe that transfers well production fluids
       from a wellhead line or production equipment to a gathering line or storage
       vessel and includes the following:

              Production Line means a flowline connecting a separator to a meter,
              LACT, or gathering line;




                                                                                         13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            Dump Line means a flowline that transfers produced water, crude oil, or
            condensate to a storage tank, pit, or process vessel and operates at or
            near atmospheric pressure at the flowline’s outlet;

            Manifold Piping means a flowline that transfers fluids into a piece of
            production facility equipment from lines that have been joined together to
            comingle fluids; and

            Process Piping means all other piping that is integral to oil and gas
            exploration and production related to an individual piece or a set of
            production facility equipment pieces.

     Geothermal Flowline means a flowline which transports a Material Medium from
     a Deep Geothermal Well to a heat exchanger, a flowline which transports a
     Material Medium from a Deep Geothermal Well to a geothermal power plant, a
     flowline which transports a Material Medium from one Location permitted by the
     Commission to another Location permitted by the Commission, or a flowline
     which transports a Material Medium to a Geothermal Injection Well.

            Geothermal Flowline does not include a flowline used to transport heat
            or a Material Medium to an end use located off a Location permitted by the
            Commission other than one for geothermal power production. Such
            flowlines are Off-Location Flowlines.

     Off-Location Flowline means a Flowline transferring produced fluids (crude oil,
     natural gas, condensate, produced water, Geothermal Resources, or Geothermal
     Fluids) from an Oil and Gas Location to a Production Facility, injection facility, Pit,
     or discharge point, that is not on the same Oil and Gas Location. This definition
     also includes flowlines connecting to gas compressors or gas plants.

     Peripheral Piping means a flowline that transfers fluids such as fuel gas, lift gas,
     instrument gas, or power fluids between oil and gas facilities for lease use.

     Produced Water Flowline means a flowline on the oil and gas location used to
     transfer produced water for treatment, storage, discharge, injection or reuse for
     oil and gas operations. A segment of pipe transferring only freshwater is not a
     flowline.

     Flowline Exclusion. A line that would otherwise meet any of the foregoing
     descriptions will not be considered a flowline if all of the following are satisfied:

            -the operator prospectively marks and tags the line as a support line;

            -the line is not integral to production;

            -the line is used infrequently to service or maintain production equipment;

            -the line does not hold a constant pressure; and



                                                                                             14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              -the line is isolated from a pressure source when not in use.

FLOWLINE SYSTEM means a network of off-location flowlines.

FLOW RATE means the volume per time unit given to the flow of gases or other fluid
substance.

FLUID means any material or substance which flows or moves whether in a semisolid,
liquid, sludge, gas, supercritical, or any other form or state. “Fluid” includes Geothermal
Fluid.

FORMAL CONSULTATION PROCESS means a process for soliciting and receiving
meaningful input from the consulting party or parties, with opportunity for in-person
meetings to allow for back-and-forth discussion, and a good faith effort to incorporate
feedback from the consulting party or parties.

FORMATION means a body of consolidated or unconsolidated rock characterized by a
degree of lithologic homogeneity which is prevailingly, but not necessarily, tabular and is
mappable on the earth's surface or traceable in the subsurface.

FORMATION FLUID means Fluid present in a Formation under natural conditions as
opposed to introduced Fluids.

FRESH WATER except as used in Rule 408, “Fresh Water” means water that is not
Produced Water or Recycled Produced Water Alternative.

FUTURE SCHOOL FACILITY means a school facility that is not yet built, but that the
school or school governing body plans to build and use for students and staff within
three years of the date the school or school governing body receives a pre-application
notice pursuant to Rule 305.a.(4). In order to be considered a future school facility, the
following requirements must be satisfied:

   •   For public, non-charter schools, the school governing body must affirm the
       nature, timing, and location of the future school facility in writing; or

   •   For charter schools, the school must have been approved by the appropriate
       school district or the State Charter School Institute, § 22-30.5-505, C.R.S., at the
       time it receives a pre-application notice pursuant to Rule 305.a.(4), and the
       school governing body must affirm the nature, timing, and location of the future
       school facility in writing; or

   •   For private schools, the school governing body must be registered with the Office
       of the Colorado Secretary of State at the time it receives a pre-application notice
       pursuant to Rule 305.a.(4), and must provide documentation proving its
       registration with the Office of the Colorado Secretary of State, its tax exempt
       status, and its submitted plans to the relevant local government building and
       planning office.




                                                                                          15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

GAS FACILITY shall mean those facilities that process or compress natural gas after
production-related activities which are conducted at or near the wellhead and prior to a
point where the gas is transferred to a carrier for transport.

GAS STORAGE WELL means any well drilled for the injection, withdrawal, production,
observation, or monitoring of natural gas stored in underground formations. The fact
that any such well is used incidentally for the production of native gas or the enhanced
recovery of native hydrocarbons shall not affect its status as a gas storage well.

GAS WELL shall mean a well, the principal production of which at the mouth of the well
is gas, as defined by the Act.

GATHERING LINE means a gathering pipeline or system as defined by the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission, Regulation No. 4, 4 C.C.R. 723-4901, Part 4, (4 C.C.R.
723-4901) or a pipeline regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 195.2 or
192.8. 49 C.F.R. §§ 195.2 or 192.8 and 4 C.C.R. 723-4901 in existence as of the date
of this regulation and does not include later amendments. 49 C.F.R. §§ 195.2 or 192.8
and 4 C.C.R. 723-4901 are available for public inspection during normal business hours
from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. Additionally, 49 C.F.R. §§ 195.2 or 192.8
may be found at https://www.phmsa.dot.gov, and 4 C.C.R. 723-4901 may be found at
https://www.sos.state.co.us.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD is defined in § 24-65.1-103(8), C.R.S.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE means the injection and long-term underground storage of
Injection Carbon Dioxide in a Geologic Storage Resource pursuant to a valid UIC Class
VI permit.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE AREA OF REVIEW means the region surrounding the
Geologic Storage project where USDWs may be endangered by the injection activity.
The Geologic Storage Area of Review is delineated using computational modeling that
accounts for the physical and chemical properties of all phases of the injected Carbon
Dioxide Stream and displaced fluids, and is based on available site characterization,
monitoring, and operational data as set forth in Rule 1414.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE OPERATIONS means activities performed for the purpose of
engaging in Geologic Storage in the state, including:

      a.      The following activities related to the operation of a Geologic Storage
      Facility:

             (1)    Drilling test bores and monitoring wells;

             (2)    Siting;

             (3)    Installing and operating Carbon Dioxide Flowlines;



                                                                                        16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             (4)    Drilling;

             (5)    Deepening;

             (6)    Recompleting;

             (7)    Reworking;

             (8)    Plugging and Abandoning; and

             (9)    Post-Injection Site Care;

      b.     Injecting Injection Carbon Dioxide for the purpose of Geologic Storage;

      c.     Any constructing, site preparing, or reclaiming activities associated with
      the activities described in subsection (a) or (b); and

      d.     Any other activities determined by the Commission to be necessary to
      protect and minimize adverse impacts associated with Geologic Storage to public
      health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE OPERATOR means any person who exercises the right to
control the conduct of Geologic Storage Operations.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE RESOURCE means Pore Space necessary for Geologic
Storage.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE UNIT means a unit of one or more Geologic Storage
Resources or parts of a Geologic Storage Resource established by the Commission
pursuant to C.R.S. 34-60-141.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE UNIT AREA means any Geologic Storage Resource, or part of
a Geologic Storage Resource, included in a Geologic Storage Unit.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE UNIT ORDER means an order that provides for the Formation
of a Geologic Storage Unit that is entered by the Commission pursuant to Rule 1427.

GEOLOGIC STORAGE UNIT PLAN means a plan for geologic storage operations of
the Geologic Storage Unit approved by the Commission pursuant to Rule 1427.

GEOTHERMAL ACT means The Colorado Geothermal Resources Act, 37-90.5-101,
C.R.S., et seq.

GEOTHERMAL BY-PRODUCTS means dissolved or entrained minerals and gases that
may be obtained from the Material Medium, excluding hydrocarbon substances and
carbon dioxide.

GEOTHERMAL FLUID means naturally occurring groundwater, brines, vapor, and
steam associated with a Geothermal Resource.



                                                                                          17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

GEOTHERMAL INJECTION WELL means a Well drilled, converted, or reworked for
the purpose of injecting Fluids approved for disposal, subsidence abatement, reservoir
pressure maintenance, reservoir fluid augmentation, or circulation.

GEOTHERMAL PAD SURFACE means the portion of a Deep Geothermal Location
that has an improved surface upon which Deep Geothermal Operations take place.
Where Rules in the 1300-Series incorporate by reference rules from other series which
use the term Working Pad Surface, the term Geothermal Pad Surface will be substituted
for Working Pad Surface.

GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE means the natural heat of the earth and includes:

      I.     The energy that may be extracted from that natural heat;

      II.    The Material Medium used to extract the energy from a Geothermal
             Resource; and

      III.   Geothermal By-Products.

GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE UNIT (“GRU”) means, consistent with § 37-90.5-109,
C.R.S., lands allocated by the Commission to a single Deep Geothermal Well or
multiple Deep Geothermal Wells for development of Geothermal Resources, pursuant
to Rule 1309.

GEOTHERMAL SCIENCE WELL means a hole drilled for the purpose of obtaining
subsurface information to support Geothermal Resource development. Geothermal
Science Well includes, but is not limited to, geothermal gradient wells, geothermal
observation wells, and geothermal monitoring wells. Geothermal Science Well does not
include wells utilized to develop Geothermal Resources.

GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY means any federal, state, tribal, or local governmental
entity.

GRADE 1 GAS LEAK means a gas leak that ignites or represents an existing or
probable hazard to persons or property and requires immediate repair or continuous
action until the conditions are no longer hazardous.

GREEN COMPLETION PRACTICES shall mean those practices intended to reduce
emissions of salable gas and condensate vapors during cleanout and flowback
operations prior to the well being placed on production.

GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY TARGETS means the greenhouse gas intensity
targets for Oil and Gas Operations established in AQCC Regulation No. 7, Control of
Emissions from Oil and Gas Operations, 5 C.C.R. §§ 1001-9:B.VIII.B & C (hereinafter
“AQCC Regulation No. 7 GHG Intensity Targets”). Only the version of the AQCC
Regulation No. 7 GHG Intensity Targets in effect as of December 15, 2024 applies; later
versions do not apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available
for public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator



                                                                                      18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In
addition, the AQCC Regulation No. 7 GHG Intensity Targets Rule is available from the
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive,
Denver, CO 80246, and is available online at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/aqcc-
regulations.

GROUNDWATER means subsurface waters in a zone of saturation which are or can be
brought to the surface of the ground or to surface waters through wells, springs, seeps
or other discharge areas.

HEALTH PROFESSIONAL shall mean a physician, physician assistant, nurse
practitioner, registered nurse, or emergency medical technician licensed by the State of
Colorado.

HIGH OCCUPANCY BUILDING UNIT means:

       a.     Any School, nursing facility as defined in § 25.5-4-103(14), C.R.S.,
              hospital, life care institution as defined in § 12-13-101, C.R.S., or
              correctional facility as defined in § 17-1-102(1.7), C.R.S., provided the
              facility or institution regularly serves 50 or more persons;

       b.     An operating Child Care Center as defined in § 26-6-102(5), C.R.S.; or

       c.     A multifamily dwelling unit with four or more units.

HIGH PRIORITY HABITAT means habitat areas identified by Colorado Parks and
Wildlife where measures to Avoid, Minimize, and Mitigate Adverse Impacts to wildlife
have been identified to protect breeding, nesting, foraging, migrating, or other uses by
wildlife. Maps showing, and spatial data identifying, the individual and combined extents
of the High Priority Habitats will be provided by CPW and attached to this Rule as
Appendix VII. The Commission will provide the maps on its website. The extent of these
High Priority Habitat areas is subject to update on a periodic but no more frequent than
annual basis and will be modified only through the Commission’s rulemaking process
described in Rule 529. Notice of such rulemaking proceeding will be provided by
February 28 of each year.

HORIZONTAL WELL shall mean a well which is drilled in such a way that the wellbore
deviates laterally to an approximate horizontal orientation within the target formation
with the length of the horizontal component of the wellbore extending at least one
hundred feet (100’) in the target formation, measured from the initial point of penetration
into the target formation through the terminus of the horizontal component of the
wellbore in the same common source of hydrocarbon supply.

HYDRAULIC FRACTURING ADDITIVE shall mean any chemical substance or
combination of substances, including any chemicals and proppants, that is intentionally
added to a base fluid for purposes of preparing a hydraulic fracturing fluid for treatment
of a well.




                                                                                          19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

HYDRAULIC FRACTURING FLUID shall mean the fluid, including the applicable base
fluid and all hydraulic fracturing additives, used to perform a hydraulic fracturing
treatment.

HYDRAULIC FRACTURING TREATMENT shall mean all stages of the treatment of a
Well by the application of hydraulic fracturing fluid under pressure that is expressly
designed to initiate or propagate fractures in a target geologic formation to enhance
production of oil, and natural gas, or production or injection of Geothermal Resources.

IMPACTS TO CLIMATE means the quantification of emissions of greenhouse gases,
as defined in § 25-7-140(6), C.R.S. (2024), that occur from sources that are controlled
or owned by the Operator and reasonably foreseeable truck traffic, as well as reductions
in greenhouse gas emissions, associated with the proposed operation.

INACTIVE WELL means:

      a.     A Well that has been shut-in and has not produced for a period of 12
             consecutive months;

      b.     A Well that has been temporarily abandoned for a period of 6 consecutive
             months;

      c.     A Class II UIC Well or a Geothermal Injection Well which has not been
             utilized for a period of 12 consecutive months; or

      d.     A Suspended Operations Well or a Waiting on Completion Well with no
             activity other than monthly Bradenhead monitoring for more than 24
             consecutive months.

      e.     An Inactive Well does not mean:

             (1)    A Well that is completed for fewer than 12 months;

             (2)    A Class II UIC Well that is completed for fewer than 12 months;

             (3)    A Well used for the purpose of monitoring or observing an oil, gas,
                    or groundwater reservoir;

             (4)    A Stratigraphic Well; or

             (5)    A Well designated as Out of Service.

A coalbed methane Well that produces only water, resulting in gas production in offset
Gas Wells, is considered producing for purposes of this definition.

INDIAN LANDS means those lands located within the exterior boundaries of a defined
Indian reservation, including allotted Indian lands, in which the legal, beneficial, or
restricted ownership of the surface or the underlying oil, gas (including coalbed




                                                                                      20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

methane), Geothermal Resource(s), or other energy or carbon management resources
or of the right to explore for and develop the oil, gas, Geothermal Resource(s), other
energy or carbon management resource belongs to or is leased from an Indian tribe or
the applicable Indian allottee.

INDUSTRIAL FACILITY means a facility that conducts industrial or manufacturing
operations.

INJECTION CARBON DIOXIDE means carbon dioxide, including its derivatives and all
mixtures, combinations, and phases, whether liquid, gaseous, supercritical, or solid, and
whether stripped, segregated, or divided from any other Fluid stream, including all
incidental associated substances derived from the source materials.

INJECTION WELL means a Well subject to Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42
U.S.C. 300f et seq., into which Fluids are being injected.

INJECTION ZONE means a geological Formation, group of Formations, or part of a
Formation that is of sufficient areal extent, thickness, porosity, and permeability to
receive Injection Carbon Dioxide through a Well or Wells associated with Geologic
Storage Operations or receiving Fluids through a Class II or Class VI UIC Well or a
Geothermal Injection Well.

INTERVENOR shall mean a local government, or the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment intervening solely to raise environmental or public health,
safety and welfare concerns, or the Colorado Parks and Wildlife intervening solely to
raise wildlife resource concerns, in which case the intervention shall be granted of right,
or a person who has timely filed an intervention in a relevant proceeding and has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that the intervention will serve the
public interest, in which case the person may be recognized as a permissive intervenor
at the Commission's discretion.

INVESTIGATION-DERIVED WASTE means those materials generated during site
investigation and Remediation activities, including but not limited to personal protective
equipment, soil cuttings, drilling mud, purged Groundwater, decontamination fluids, and
disposable or consumable equipment and supplies.

ISOLATION VALVE means a valve closed to the atmosphere that stops fluid flow and
isolates a segment in a flowline or crude oil transfer line.

LACT (“Lease Automated Custody Transfer”) shall mean the transfer of produced crude
oil or condensate, after processing or treating in the producing operations, from storage
vessels or automated transfer facilities to pipelines or any other form of transportation.

LAND APPLICATION means the disposal method by which treated E&P Waste is
spread upon and mixed into soils.

LAND TREATMENT means the method by which E&P Waste is treated ex situ at the
land surface to result in a reduction of hydrocarbon concentration by biodegradation and



                                                                                         21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

other natural attenuation processes. Land Treatment may be enhanced by tilling,
disking, aerating, composting, or adding nutrients or microbes.

LARGE UMA FACILITY shall mean any Oil and Gas Location proposed to be located in
an Urban Mitigation Area and on which: (1) the operator proposes to drill 8 or more new
wells; or (2) the cumulative new and existing on-site storage capacity for produced
hydrocarbons exceeds 4,000 barrels.

LETTER OF CREDIT means an irrevocable letter guaranteeing the creditworthiness of
an Operator, with the guarantee made by a third-party entity and the Commission as a
beneficiary, which provides Financial Assurance that an Operator will comply with all its
obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules. A Letter of Credit may be called
and expended by the Commission if an Operator fails to perform its Plugging and
Abandonment, Reclamation, and Remediation obligations.

LITHOLOGY means the description of rocks on the basis of their physical and chemical
characteristics.

LOCAL GOVERNMENT means a county, home rule or statutory city, town, territorial
charter city or city and county, or any special district established pursuant to the Special
District Act, C.R.S. §32-1-101 to 32-1-1807 (2013).

LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL DESIGNEE means the office designated to receive, on
behalf of the local government, copies of all documents required to be filed with the
local governmental designee pursuant to these rules.

LOCATION means any Deep Geothermal Location, Geologic Storage Location, or any
Oil and Gas Location.

       DEEP GEOTHERMAL LOCATION means a definable area where an operator
       has disturbed or intends to disturb the land surface in order to locate a deep
       geothermal facility.

       GEOLOGIC STORAGE LOCATION means a definable area where a geologic
       storage operator uses or intends to use the land surface in order to operate a
       Geologic Storage Facility.

       OIL AND GAS LOCATION means a definable area where an operator has
       disturbed or intends to disturb the land surface in order to locate an oil and gas
       facility.

LOCKOUT means installing a device, such as a blind plug, blank flange, or bolted slip
blind that prevents operation of an energy-isolating device, such as a valve, and
ensures the equipment cannot be operated until the lockout device is removed.

LOG or WELL LOG shall mean a systematic detailed record of formations encountered
in the drilling of a well.




                                                                                            22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

LOW PRODUCING WELL means an oil or gas Well that produces a daily average of
less than 2 barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”) or 10 thousand cubic feet of natural gas
equivalent (“MCFE”) of gas over the previous 12 months. An Inactive Well is also a Low
Producing Well. For purposes of this definition, BOE applies to Wells with a gas-to-oil
ratio (“GOR”) equal to or less than 15,000 standard cubic feet (“SCF”)/barrels of oil
(“BBL”) and MCFE applies to Wells with a GOR greater than 15,000 SCF/BBL. GOR is
calculated by dividing the Well’s gas production (in thousand cubic feet (“MCF”)) over
the previous 12 months by the Well’s oil production (in BBL) over the previous 12
months and multiplying by 1,000. Operators will use the conversion factor of 5.8 to
convert MCF to BBL and vice versa.

       a.     A Low Producing Well does not mean a Class II UIC Well that is not an
              Inactive Well.

       b.     A Low Producing Well does not mean a Well used for the purpose of
              monitoring or observing an oil or gas reservoir, or a Stratigraphic Well.

MATERIAL MEDIUM means Geothermal Fluid as well as any other substance used to
transfer energy from a Geothermal Resource.

MAXIMUM ANTICIPATED OPERATING PRESSURE means the highest operational
pressure the operator expects to apply to a flowline when in service.

MEDICAL TREATMENT shall mean the management and care of a patient to combat a
disease or disorder. An injury or illness is an abnormal condition or disorder. Injuries
include cases such as, but not limited to, a cut, fracture, sprain, or amputation. Illnesses
include both acute and chronic illnesses, such as, but not limited to, a skin disease,
respiratory disorder, or poisoning. “Medical treatment” includes situations where a
physician or other licensed health care professional recommends medical treatment but
the employee does not follow the recommendation. “Medical treatment” does not
include first aid treatment, as defined herein, visits to a physician or other licensed
health care professional solely for observation or counseling, or the conduct of
diagnostic procedures such as x-rays and blood tests, including the administration of
prescription medications used solely for diagnostic purposes.

MINIMIZE ADVERSE IMPACTS means, as provided by § 34-60-106(2.5), C.R.S.,
providing necessary and reasonable protections to reduce the extent, severity,
significance, or duration of Unavoidable direct, indirect, and cumulative Adverse
Impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or Wildlife Resources from
Oil and Gas Operations, Geologic Storage Operations, or Deep Geothermal Operations.

MINIMIZE EROSION shall mean implementing best management practices that are
selected based on site-specific conditions and maintained to reduce erosion.
Representative erosion control practices include, but are not limited to, revegetation of
disturbed areas, mulching, berms, diversion dikes, surface roughening, slope drains,
check dams, and other comparable measures.




                                                                                          23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

MITIGATE ADVERSE IMPACTS means, with respect to Wildlife Resources, measures
that compensate for Unavoidable direct, indirect, and cumulative Adverse Impacts and
loss of such resources from Oil and Gas Operations, Geologic Storage Operations, or
Deep Geothermal Operations, including, as appropriate, habitat replacement, on- or off-
site habitat enhancement, habitat banking, or financial payment in lieu of habitat
replacement or enhancement to compensate for the loss of habitat and ensure that
wildlife populations are protected.

MULTI-WELL PITS means Pits used for treatment, storage, recycling, reuse, or
disposal of E&P Wastes generated from more than one Well.

MULTI-WELL SITE shall mean a common well pad from which multiple wells may be
drilled to various bottomhole locations.

NON-CROP LAND shall mean all lands which are not defined as crop land, including
range land.

NONTRIBUTARY GROUNDWATER has the meaning set forth in § 37-90-103(10.5),
C.R.S.

NOx means nitrogen oxides.

NOx INTENSITY TARGET means the NOx intensity targets for Oil and Gas Operations
established in AQCC Regulation No. 7, Control of Emissions from Oil and Gas
Operations, 5 C.C.R. § 1001-9:B.VI.E.2 (hereinafter “AQCC Regulation No. 7 NOx
Intensity Target”). Only the version of the AQCC Regulation No. 7 NOx Intensity Target
in effect as of December 15, 2024 applies; later versions do not apply. All materials
incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal
business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, the AQCC Regulation
No. 7 NOx Intensity Target Rule is available from the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive, Denver, CO 80246, and is available
online at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/aqcc-regulations.

NOXIOUS WEED is defined in § 35-5.5-103(16), C.R.S.

OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PLAN means a plan to develop oil or gas resources at
one or more Oil and Gas Locations, consistent with the requirements of Rule 303.

OIL AND GAS FACILITY means equipment or improvements used or installed at an oil
and gas location for the exploration, production, withdrawal, treatment, or processing of
crude oil, condensate, E&P waste, or gas.

OIL AND GAS LOCATION shall mean a definable area where an operator has
disturbed or intends to disturb the land surface in order to locate an oil and gas facility.

OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS means exploring for oil and gas, including conducting
seismic operations and the drilling of test bores; siting, drilling, deepening, recompleting,



                                                                                           24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

reworking, or abandoning a well; producing operations related to any well, including
installing flowlines; the generating, transporting, storing, treating, or disposing
exploration and production wastes; and any constructing, site preparing, or reclaiming
activities associated with such operations.

OIL WELL shall mean a well, the principal production of which at the mouth of the well
is oil, as defined by the Act.

OILY WASTE means those materials containing unrefined petroleum hydrocarbons in
concentrations in excess of the concentration levels in Table 915-1. Oily waste may
include crude oil, condensate, or other materials such as soil, frac sand, drilling fluids,
cuttings, and Pit sludge that contain hydrocarbons.

OPEN-LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM means a Deep Geothermal Operation which
does not qualify as a Closed-Loop Geothermal System.

OPERATOR means any person who exercises the right to control the conduct of any
operation subject to the regulatory and permitting authority of the Commission.

       a.     SELLING OPERATOR means the Operator of record for any Transferable
              Items, as defined in Rule 218.a, at the time a Form 9, Transfer of
              Operatorship – Intent is filed.

       b.     BUYING OPERATOR means the successor-in-interest entity to which
              Transferable Items, as defined in Rule 218.a, will be transferred through
              the Form 9 process.

       c.     PRIOR OPERATOR means an Operator other than the Selling Operator
              that was a previous Operator of record for any Transferable Items, as
              defined in Rule 218.a.

       D.     OIL AND GAS OPERATOR means any person who exercises the right to
              control the conduct of Oil and Gas Operations.

       E.     DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATOR means any person who exercises the
              right to control the conduct of Deep Geothermal Operations.

ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LINE shall mean the line that water impresses on the land
by covering it for sufficient periods to cause physical characteristics that distinguish the
area below the line from the area above it. Characteristics of the area below the line
include, when appropriate, but are not limited to, deprivation of the soil of substantially
all terrestrial vegetation and destruction of its agricultural vegetative value. A flood plain
adjacent to surface waters is not considered to lie within the surface waters’ ordinary
high-water line.

ORPHANED SITE means a Location or Facility for which no Operator with unclaimed
Financial Assurance or an active Form 1, Registration for Operations exists, and for




                                                                                            25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

which the Commission has not identified a Responsible Party. An Orphaned Site may or
may not have Orphaned Well(s) associated with the Location or Facility.

ORPHANED WELL means a Well for which no Owner or Operator can be found, or
where such Owner or Operator is unwilling or unable to Plug and Abandon such Well.

ORPHANED WELLS MITIGATION ENTERPRISE means the orphaned wells mitigation
enterprise created by §34-60-133(1), C.R.S.

OUT OF SERVICE LOCKS AND TAGS (OOSLAT) means locks and tags that an
operator applies when equipment is in pre-commissioned status, is placed in an out of
service status, or is in the process of abandonment. Out of service locks and tags must
be visibly different from lock out and tag out devices used during repair or maintenance
of the equipment.

OUT OF SERVICE WELL means a Well that an Operator intends to Plug and Abandon
and for which a Form 6A, Out of Service Well Designation has been submitted by the
Operator.

OWNER shall mean the person who has the right to drill into and produce from a pool
and to appropriate the oil or gas or Geothermal Resource produced therefrom either for
such owner or others or for such owner and others, including owners of a Well capable
of producing oil or gas, or both.

OZONE NONATTAINMENT AREA means the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area, Denver 1-
Hour Ozone Attainment/Maintenance Area, and Northern Weld County, as defined in
AQCC Regulation No. 7, Control of Emissions from Oil and Gas Operations, 5 C.C.R. §
1001-9:A.II.A.1–3 (hereinafter (“AQCC Regulation No. 7 Ozone Area Definitions”). Only
the version of the AQCC Regulation No. 7 Ozone Area Definitions in effect as of
December 15, 2024 applies; later versions do not apply. All materials incorporated by
reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal business hours
from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, the AQCC Regulation No. 7 Ozone
Area Definitions are available from the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive, Denver, CO 80246, and is available online at
https://cdphe.colorado.gov/aqcc-regulations.

PACKER means a downhole sealing device set within casing that can isolate and
contain fluids and pressures within a tubing string.

PENDING CLASS VI DEVELOPMENT PLAN means a Class VI Development Plan
application that has received a completeness determination pursuant to Rule 1405.c. A
Pending Class VI Development Plan must satisfy all requirements of Rule 1405.c.

PERMIT means an authorization issued by the Commission or the Director to conduct
Energy and Carbon Management Operations. Permit does not include any application
which has not yet been the subject of final approval by the Commission or the Director,
as applicable.



                                                                                      26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

PETITION FOR REVIEW shall mean the written request filed by a Complainant for
Commission review of the Director’s resolution of a complaint filed on a Form 18,
Complaint Report.

PFAS CHEMICALS means perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances as a class of
fluorinated organic chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.

PIPELINE means a flowline, crude oil transfer line or gathering line as defined in these
Rules.

PIT shall mean any natural or man-made depression in the ground used for Deep
Geothermal Operations or oil or gas exploration or production purposes. Pit does not
include steel, fiberglass, concrete or other similar vessels which do not release their
contents to surrounding soils.

PLUGGING means the act or process of stopping the flow of water, oil or gas into or out
of a Formation through a borehole or Well penetrating that Formation.

PLUGGING AND ABANDONMENT means the permanent plugging of a Well, the
removal of its associated Production Facilities, and the abandonment of its Flowline(s).

PLUGGING LIST means the list of an Operator’s Out of Service Wells resulting from
submitted Form 6As where Plugging and Abandonment are not yet completed for the
Well.

POINT OF COMPLIANCE means one or more points or locations at which compliance
with applicable groundwater standards established under Water Quality Control
Commission Basic Standards for Groundwater, Section 3.11.4, must be achieved.

POLLUTION means anthropogenic contamination or other degradation of the physical,
chemical, biological, or radiological integrity of air, water, soil, or Biological Resources
that is not authorized or allowed by the Commission’s Rules or applicable regulations
promulgated by another federal, state, or Local Government agency.

The words POOL, PERSON, PRODUCER, OIL, GAS, WASTE, CORRELATIVE
RIGHTS, NONCONSUMPTIVE GEOTHERMAL OPERATION and COMMON
SOURCE OF SUPPLY are defined by the Act and Geothermal Resources Act, and said
definitions are hereby adopted in these Rules and Regulations. The word “operator” is
used in these rules and regulations and accompanying forms interchangeably with the
same meaning as the term “owner” except in Rules 301, 323, 401 and 530 where the
word “Operator” is used to identify the persons designated by the owner or owners to
perform the functions covered by those rules. As used in the 1300-Series of these
Rules, “Correlative Rights” also means that each owner and producer in a common pool
or source of supply of a Geothermal Resource shall have an equal opportunity to obtain
and produce their just and equitable share of the Geothermal Resource underlying such
pool or source of supply.




                                                                                          27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

PORE SPACE means a cavity or void, whether natural or artificially created, in a
subsurface Stratum.

POST-INJECTION SITE CARE means appropriate monitoring and other actions
(including Class VI Corrective Action) needed following cessation of injection to ensure
that USDWs are not endangered, as required pursuant to Rule 1423.

POTENTIAL FLOW ZONES means formations or zones which have the potential to
flow against or are unable to support the hydrostatic pressure exerted by fluid in the
well.

PRESSURE means the total load or force per unit area acting on a surface.

PRESSURE FRONT means the zone of elevated Pressure that is created by the
injection of Injection Carbon Dioxide into the subsurface. For the purposes of the
Commission’s 1400 Series Rules, the Pressure Front of a Carbon Dioxide Plume refers
to a zone where there is a Pressure differential sufficient to cause the movement of
injected Fluids or Formation Fluids into a USDW.

PRINCIPAL AGENT means the Operator representative authorized to accept and be
served with notice from the Commission, or from other persons authorized under the
Act.

PRODUCED AND MARKETED. These words, as used in the Act, shall mean, when oil
shall have left the lease tank battery or when natural gas shall have passed the
metering point and entered into the stream of commerce as its first step toward the
ultimate consumer.

PRODUCED WATER means water, including the water’s mineral and chemical
components, in or introduced to a geological formation, that is coproduced with oil or
natural gas from an Oil and Gas Well. Produced Water includes Flowback water,
excluding proppants returned to the surface.

PRODUCED WATER TRANSFER SYSTEM means a system of off-location flowlines
that transports produced water generated at more than one well site.

PRODUCTION EVALUATION means an evaluation of production potential for
determination of requirements for infrastructure capacity and equipment sizing.

PRODUCTION FACILITY means any storage, separation, treating, dehydration,
artificial lift, power supply, compression, pumping, metering, monitoring, flowline, and
other equipment directly associated with a well.

PRODUCTION PITS means pits used after drilling operations and initial completion of a
well, including pits related to produced water flowlines or associated with E&P waste
from gas gathering, processing and storage facilities, which constitute:




                                                                                           28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       SKIMMING/SETTLING PITS used to provide retention time for settling of solids
       and separation of residual oil for the purposes of recovering the oil or fluid.

       PRODUCED WATER PITS used to temporarily store produced water prior to
       injection for enhanced recovery or disposal, off-site transport, or surface-water
       discharge.

       PERCOLATION PITS used to dispose of produced water by percolation and
       evaporation through the bottom or sides of the pits into surrounding soils.

       EVAPORATION PITS used to contain produced waters which evaporate into the
       atmosphere by natural thermal forces.

PRODUCTIVITY TEST means a test for determination of a reservoir’s ability to produce
economic quantities of oil, gas, or Geothermal Resources.

PROPPANT shall mean sand or any natural or man-made material that is used in a
hydraulic fracturing treatment to prop open the artificially created or enhanced fractures
once the treatment is completed.

PROXIMATE LOCAL GOVERNMENT means any Local Government with land use
authority within 2,000 feet of a proposed Working Pad Surface or Geothermal Pad
Surface.

PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM (“PWS”) means a system to provide to the public water for
human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances, if such systems
have at least 15 service connections or regularly serve an average of at least 25
individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year or the entity that administers such a
system. The definition of PWS includes:

       a.     Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control
              of the PWS operator of such system and used primarily in connection with
              such system; and

       b.     Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control,
              which are used primarily in connection with such system.

The definition of PWS does not include any “special irrigation district,” as defined in the
Colorado Water Quality Control Commission’s (“WQCC”) Colorado Primary Drinking
Water Regulations, 5 C.C.R. § 1002-11:11.3(77) (“WQCC’s Primary Drinking Water
Regulations”). Only the version of the WQCC’s Primary Drinking Water Regulations that
are in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies; later versions do not apply. WQCC’s
Primary Drinking Water Regulations are available for public inspection during normal
business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, WQCC’s Primary
Drinking Water Regulations may be examined at the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and are




                                                                                           29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

available at https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/water-quality-control-commission-
regulations.

REASONABLY FORESEEABLE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT means development that
has not yet been undertaken for which an applicable local, state, or federal agency has
received an application or issued a permit. Future Development is Reasonably
Foreseeable only if information related to the permit is publicly available.

RECLAMATION means the process of returning or restoring the surface of disturbed
land to its condition prior to the commencement of Oil and Gas Operations or Deep
Geothermal Operations.

RECYCLED PRODUCED WATER means Produced Water that is reconditioned into a
reusable form and reused in Oil and Gas Operations or that is reused in Oil and Gas
Operations without reconditioning.

RECYCLED PRODUCED WATER ALTERNATIVE means brine resulting from reverse
osmosis or other treatment that has a concentrated waste stream, waters from geologic
formations that have been designated as exempt under Rule 802, waters from geologic
formations that have a total dissolved solids (“TDS”) concentration greater than 10,000
milligrams per liter, spent water from tank cleaning and hydrotest operations, and
waters that would otherwise be disposed of in Class I or Class II UIC wells.

RECYCLED PRODUCED WATER CREDIT means a tradeable compliance instrument
that represents one barrel of Recycled Produced Water or Recycled Produced Water
Alternative.

REFERENCE AREA shall mean an area either (1) on a portion of the site that will not
be disturbed by Oil and Gas Operations or Deep Geothermal Operations, if that is the
desired final reclamation; or (2) another location that is undisturbed by Oil and Gas
Operations or Deep Geothermal Operations and proximate and similar to a proposed
Location in terms of vegetative potential and management, owned by a person who
agrees to allow periodic access to it by the Director and the Operator for the purpose of
providing baseline information for reclamation standards, and intended to reflect the
desired final reclamation.

REFILE means a permit application filed for an expired or nearly expired permit for
proposed Oil and Gas Operations or Deep Geothermal Operations that were not
conducted during the valid term of the previously approved permit.

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE PROGRAM shall mean a documented program that
evaluates an operator’s operations on a scheduled basis to determine compliance with
regulatory requirements, especially those required by the Act, Geothermal Act, or
Commission rules, orders, or permits. Such a program should include written
procedures, a recognized authority within the organization, and designated personnel
whose purpose is monitoring and maintaining compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements, and documentation of results of evaluations conducted.




                                                                                        30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

RELATED OPERATORS means two or more Operators consolidated for purposes of
determining Financial Assurance obligations pursuant to Rule 702 or Rule 1316 and
General Liability Insurance obligations pursuant to Rule 705.

RELEASE shall mean any unauthorized discharge of E&P waste to the environment
over time.

RELEVANT LOCAL GOVERNMENT means a Local Government with land use
authority where existing or proposed Energy and Carbon Management Operations
occur.

REMEDIATION means the process of reducing the concentration of a contaminant or
contaminants in water or soil to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with the
concentration levels in Table 915-1 and other applicable Groundwater standards and
classifications.

RESERVE PITS shall mean those pits used to store drilling fluids for use in drilling
operations or to contain E&P waste generated during drilling operations and initial
completion procedures.

RESIDENTIAL BUILDING UNIT means a building or structure designed for use as a
place of residency by a person, a family, or families. The term includes manufactured,
mobile, and modular homes, except to the extent that any such manufactured, mobile,
or modular home is intended for temporary occupancy or for business purposes. Each
individual residence within a building will be counted as one Residential Building Unit.

RESPONDENT shall mean a party against whom a proceeding is instituted, or a
protestant who protests the granting of the relief sought in the application as provided in
Rule 509.

RESPONSIBLE PARTY means an Owner or Operator who conducts an Oil and Gas
Operation or a Deep Geothermal Operation in a manner which is in contravention of any
then-applicable provision of the Act, Geothermal Act, or of any rule, regulation, or order
of the Commission, or of any permit, that threatens to cause, or actually causes, a
significant adverse environmental impact to any air, water, soil, or biological resource.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY includes any person who disposes of any other waste by
mixing it with Exploration and Production Waste so as to threaten to cause, or actually
cause, a significant adverse environmental impact to any air, water, soil, or biological
resource.

RISER means the component of a flowline transitioning from below grade to above
grade.

SEQUESTRATION ESTATE means a portion of a Geologic Storage Resource.

SEQUESTRATION ESTATE OWNER means any person owning all or part of the
Sequestration Estate used for Geologic Storage Operations, as shown by the records of




                                                                                        31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

the county in which the Sequestration Estate is situated, or any person with such rights
under a recorded contract to purchase.

SCHOOL means any operating Public School as defined in § 22-7-703(4), C.R.S.,
including any Charter School as defined in § 22-30.5-103(2), C.R.S., or § 22-30.5-
502(6), C.R.S., or Private School as defined in § 22-30.5-103(6.5), C.R.S.

SCHOOL FACILITY means any discrete facility or area, whether indoor or outdoor,
associated with a school, that students use commonly as part of their curriculum or
extracurricular activities. A school facility is either adjacent to or owned by the school or
school governing body, and the school or school governing body has the legal right to
use the school facility at its discretion. The definition includes Future School Facility.

SCHOOL GOVERNING BODY means the school district board or board of directors for
public schools or the board of trustees, board of directors, or any other body or person
charged with administering a private school or group of private schools, or any body or
person responsible for administering or operating a child care center. A school
governing body may delegate its rights under these rules, in writing, to a superintendent
or other staff member, or to a principal or senior administrator of a school that is in
proximity to the proposed oil and gas location.

SEISMIC OPERATIONS shall mean all activities associated with acquisition of seismic
data including but not limited to surveying, shothole drilling, recording, shothole plugging
and reclamation.

SENSITIVE AREA is an area vulnerable to potential significant adverse groundwater
impacts, due to factors such as the presence of shallow groundwater or pathways for
communication with deeper groundwater; proximity to surface water, including lakes,
rivers, perennial or intermittent streams, creeks, irrigation canals, and wetlands.
Additionally, areas classified for domestic use by the Water Quality Control
Commission, local (water supply) wellhead protection areas, areas within 1/8 mile of a
domestic water well, areas within 1/4 mile of a public water supply well, ground water
basins designated by the Colorado Ground Water Commission, and surface water
supply areas are sensitive areas.

SHUT-IN WELL means a Well which is not currently producing or injecting but is
capable of production or injection by opening valves, activating existing equipment, or
supplying a power source.

SIMULTANEOUS INJECTION WELL shall mean any well in which water produced
from oil and gas producing zones is injected into a lower injection zone and such water
production is not brought to the surface.

SINGLE WELL FINANCIAL ASSURANCE means either:

       a.     The sum of an Operator’s demonstrated costs of Plugging and
              Abandonment of the Well and the associated and apportioned
              Reclamation cost for the Well, which is calculated by dividing the



                                                                                           32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              demonstrated Reclamation costs by the number of Wells on the Oil and
              Gas Location or at the Oil and Gas Facility; or

       b.     The sum of the Single Well Plugging and Abandonment Cost and the
              Single Well Location Reclamation Cost.

       c.     For purposes of this definition, costs are calculated as follows:

              (1)    LOCATION RECLAMATION COST means the Commission’s
                     estimated costs of Reclamation at an Oil and Gas Location or an
                     Oil and Gas Facility, which is set at $100,000 per Location or
                     Facility.

              (2)    SINGLE WELL LOCATION RECLAMATION COST means the cost
                     of Reclamation attributable to a single Well on an Oil and Gas
                     Location or at an Oil and Gas Facility, which is calculated by
                     dividing the Location Reclamation Cost by the number of Wells on
                     the Oil and Gas Location or at an Oil and Gas Facility.

              (3)    SINGLE WELL PLUGGING AND ABANDONMENT COST means
                     the Commission’s estimated costs of Plugging and Abandonment of
                     the Well as follows:

                     A.     For a Well drilled to a total vertical depth of 4,000 feet or
                            less: $10,000 of Financial Assurance.

                     B.     For a Well drilled to a total vertical depth of more than 4,000
                            feet and less than or equal to 8,000 feet: $30,000 of
                            Financial Assurance.

                     C.     For a Well drilled to a total vertical depth of more than 8,000
                            feet: $40,000 of Financial Assurance.

       d.     Both the Operator’s demonstrated costs and Commission’s estimated
              costs are subject to adjustment for inflation pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

SITE CLOSURE means the point/time, as determined by the Director pursuant to Rule
1423, at which the Geologic Storage Operator of a Geologic Storage Facility is released
from Post-Injection Site Care responsibilities.

SLB means The State Land Board.

SOLID WASTE shall mean any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply plant, air pollution control facility, or other discarded material; including
solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial
operations, commercial operations, or community activities. Solid waste does not
include any solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or agricultural wastes, or
solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows, or industrial discharges which are



                                                                                            33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

point sources subject to permits under the provisions of the Colorado Water Quality
Control Act, Title 25, Article 8, C.R.S. or materials handled at facilities licensed pursuant
to the provisions on radiation control in Title 25, Article 11, C.R.S. Solid waste does not
include: (a) materials handled at facilities licensed pursuant to the provisions on
radiation control in Title 25, Article 11, C.R.S.; (b) excluded scrap metal that is being
recycled; or (c) shredded circuit boards that are being recycled.

SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL shall mean the storage, treatment, utilization, processing,
or final disposal of solid wastes.

SPECIAL FIELD RULES shall mean those rules promulgated for and which are limited
in their application to individual pools or fields within the State of Colorado.

SPECIAL PURPOSE PITS means pits used in Operations, including pits related to
produced water flowlines or associated with E&P Waste from gas gathering, processing
and storage facilities, which constitute:

       BLOWDOWN PITS used to collect material resulting from, including but not
       limited to, the emptying or depressurizing of wells, vessels, or flowlines, or E&P
       waste from gathering systems.

       FLARE PITS used exclusively for flaring gas.

       EMERGENCY PITS used to contain liquids during an initial phase of emergency
       response operations related to a spill/release or process upset conditions.

       BASIC SEDIMENT/TANK BOTTOM PITS used to temporarily store or treat the
       extraneous materials in crude oil which may settle to the bottoms of tanks or
       production vessels and which may contain residual oil.

       WORKOVER PITS used to contain liquids during the performance of remedial
       operations on a producing well in an effort to increase production.

       PLUGGING PITS used for containment of fluids encountered during the plugging
       process.

SPILL shall mean any unauthorized sudden discharge of E&P waste to the
environment.

SPUD means the initiation of drilling the surface casing hole of a Well.

SPUD DATE means the date when the Operator starts drilling the surface casing hole
of a Well.

STIMULATION means a treatment performed to restore or enhance the productivity or
injectivity of the formation and falls into two main types of treatment: hydraulic fracturing
treatments performed above the reservoir fracture pressure, and matrix treatments
performed below the reservoir fracture pressure.



                                                                                          34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

STORMWATER RUNOFF shall mean rain or snowmelt that flows over land and does
not percolate into soil and includes stormwater that flows onto and off of an oil and gas
location or facility.

STRATIGRAPHIC WELL means a well drilled for stratigraphic information only. Wells
drilled in a delineated field to known productive horizons shall not be classified as
“stratigraphic.” Neither the term “well” nor “stratigraphic well” shall include seismic holes
drilled for the purpose of obtaining geophysical information only.

STRATUM (plural strata) means a single sedimentary bed or layer, regardless of
thickness, that consists of generally the same kind of rock material.

SURETY BOND means a surety instrument issued by a Surety Company on behalf of
an Operator and in favor of the Commission as obligee, providing Financial Assurance
that an Operator will comply with all its obligations under the Act and the Commission’s
Rules. A Surety Bond may be called by submitting a claim against it with the Surety
Company and expended thereafter by the Commission if an Operator fails to perform its
Plugging and Abandonment, Reclamation, and Remediation obligations. The Operator
providing a Surety Bond has no property interest in the Surety Bond other than a
contingent reversionary interest in the surplus, if any, which arises after the Director has
determined that the Operator has complied with all Plugging and Abandonment,
Reclamation, and Remediation obligations pursuant to Rule 706.a, or after a Buying
Operator has filed a satisfactory replacement Financial Assurance pursuant to Rule
218.g.(4).

SURFACE CASING means the first string of casing to be installed in the well. Surface
Casing does not include conductor casing.

SURETY COMPANY means a company duly-licensed to write surety business in the
State of Colorado and by the Colorado Division of Insurance.

SURFACE OWNER means any person owning all or part of the surface of land upon
which Energy and Carbon Management Operations are conducted, as shown by the tax
records of the county in which the tract of land is situated, or any person with such
rights under a recorded contract to purchase.

SURFACE USE AGREEMENT means any agreement in the nature of a contract or
other form of document binding on the Operator, including any lease, damage
agreement, waiver, local government approval or permit, or other form of agreement,
which governs the Operator’s activities on the surface in relation to locating a Well,
Multi-Well Site, Production Facility, Pipeline or any other Facility that supports oil and
gas or Geothermal Resource development or Geologic Storage Operations, located on
the Surface Owner’s property.

SURFACE WATER INTAKE shall mean the works or structures at the head of a
conduit through which water is diverted from a classified water supply segment and/or
source (e.g., river or lake) into the treatment plant.




                                                                                           35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

SUSPENDED OPERATIONS WELL means a Well which has been Spud but drilling
operations are suspended prior to reaching total depth, and at least one casing string
has been set and cemented in the wellbore. Wells in which only conductor pipe has
been set but the surface hole has not been Spud are not Suspended Operations Wells.

TAGOUT means securely fastening a tagout device to an energy-isolating device, such
as a valve, to indicate that the energy-isolating device and the equipment being
controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is removed.

TAGOUT DEVICE means a prominent warning device, such as a tag, that will not
deteriorate or become illegible with exposure to weather conditions or wet and damp
locations. The tagout device must include: an instruction to not operate the equipment;
the date the tag was applied; the date of the last successful integrity test; and the
reason for tagging out the equipment.

TANK shall mean a stationary vessel constructed of non-earthen materials (e.g
concrete, steel, plastic) that provides structural support and is designed and operated to
store produced fluids or E&P waste. Examples include, but are not limited to,
condensate tanks, crude oil tanks, produced water tanks, and gun barrels. Exclusions
include Containers and process vessels such as separators, heater treaters, free water
knockouts, and slug catchers.

TEMPORARILY ABANDONED WELL means:

      a.     A Well that is neither currently producing nor permanently plugged, but
             has all downhole completed intervals isolated with a plug set above the
             highest perforation such that the Well cannot produce without removing a
             plug; or

      b.     A Well which is incapable of production or injection without a downhole
             intervention or the addition of one or more pieces of wellhead or other
             equipment, including, but not limited to, valves, tubing, rods, pumps,
             heater-treaters, separators, dehydrators, compressors, piping, or Tanks.

THIRD-PARTY TRUST FUND means a trust fund created by the Operator with the
Commission as the beneficiary, and managed by an entity authorized to act as a trustee
whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a federal or state agency. The
Operator and the Commission will share approval for disbursements from the trust fund.
The trustee will direct the investment of funds in the trust and manage such funds
considering the field life as determining the anticipated date funds will be withdrawn for
performance of Plugging and Abandonment and Reclamation. The wording of the trust
agreement will be identical to the wording approved by the Director, and no changes are
allowed without Director approval.

TIER 1 OIL AND GAS LOCATION shall mean an oil and gas location where the slope
is less than five percent (5%), the soil has low erosion potential, vegetative cover or
permanent erosion resistance cover is greater than seventy-five percent (75%), the
distance from a perennial stream or Classified Water Supply Segment is greater than



                                                                                       36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

five hundred (500) feet, and the oil and gas location size is less than one (1) acre,
measured by the amount of surface disturbance at the time of the termination of a
construction stormwater permit issued by the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment.

TRADE SECRET shall have the meaning set forth in § 7-74-102(4) (2011) of the
Colorado Uniform Trade Secrets Act.

TRADE SECRET CHEMICAL PRODUCT shall mean a Chemical Product the
composition of which is a Trade Secret.

TRANSMISSIVE FAULT OR FRACTURE means a Fault or fracture that has sufficient
permeability and vertical extent to allow Fluids to move between Formations.

UIC AQUIFER means a geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation
that is capable of yielding a significant amount of water to a well or spring.

UNAVOIDABLE ADVERSE IMPACTS means direct, indirect, or cumulative adverse
impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or Wildlife Resources that are
not entirely eliminated through the application of alternative location selection or other
methods designed to Minimize Adverse Impacts from Oil and Gas Operations.

UNDERGROUND INJECTION means the subsurface emplacement of Fluids through a
Well pursuant to Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.

UNDERGROUND SOURCE OF DRINKING WATER (“USDW”) means a UIC Aquifer
or its portion:

      a.     Which supplies any Public Water System; or

      b.    Which contains a sufficient quantity of Groundwater to supply a Public
      Water System; and

             (1)    Currently supplies drinking water for human consumption; or

             (2)    Contains fewer than 10,000 mg/l total dissolved solids;

      c.     Which is not an exempted Aquifer.

UNDESIRABLE PLANT SPECIES are those species that possess unwanted or harmful
characteristics. Undesirable plant species include, but are not limited to: Noxious
Weeds; non-native invasive species that replace or inhibit the establishment of native
vegetation; native or non-native species that create monocultures or are overly
dominant; species that by their presence reduce species diversity in vegetation
communities; species that reduce or hinder agricultural productivity; species that
exacerbate wind or water erosion; and species that increase fire risk.




                                                                                       37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

UPSET CONDITION means a sudden unavoidable failure, breakdown, event, or
malfunction, beyond the reasonable control of the Operator, of any equipment or
process that results in abnormal operations and requires correction.

URBAN MITIGATION AREA shall mean an area where: (A) At least twenty-two (22)
Building Units or one (1) High Occupancy Building Unit (existing or under construction)
are located within a 1,000' radius of the proposed Oil and Gas Location; or (B) At least
eleven (11) Building Units or one (1) High Occupancy Building Unit (existing or under
construction) are located within any semi-circle of the 1,000 radius mentioned in section
(A) above.

USED OR USEFUL means a Well, Location, or Facility, with or without associated
Wells that is currently being used or has an identified future beneficial use, which may
be indicated by, among other things:

      a.     Production trends for the Well;

      b.     Plugging and Abandonment, Remediation, and Reclamation costs in
             relation to the Well’s gross revenue generation;

      c.     Failure to use or develop a facility;

      d.     Remaining economic viability; or

      e.     Other relevant evidence.

VENTING means allowing natural gas to escape into the atmosphere, but does not
include:

      a.     The emission of gas from devices, such as pneumatic devices and
             pneumatic pumps, that are designed to emit as part of normal operations if
             such emissions are not prohibited by AQCC Regulation No. 7, as
             incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b;

      b.     Unintentional leaks that are not the result of inadequate equipment design;
             and

      c.     Natural gas escaping from, or downstream of, a Tank unless: 1) there is
             no separation occurring at equipment upstream of the Tank; 2) the
             separation equipment is not sufficiently sized to capture the entrained gas;
             or 3) the natural gas is sent to the Tank during circumstances when the
             gas cannot be sent to the Gathering Line or the combustion equipment
             used to Flare the gas is not operating.

WAITING ON COMPLETION WELL means a Well which has been drilled to total
depth, cased, and cemented but the objective formation has not yet been completed or
Stimulated.




                                                                                       38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

WATER SOURCE shall mean water wells that are registered with Colorado Division of
Water Resources, including household, domestic, livestock, irrigation, municipal/public,
and commercial wells, permitted or adjudicated springs, or monitoring wells installed for
the purpose of complying with groundwater baseline sampling and monitoring
requirements under Rules 318A.e.(4), 608, or 609.

WATERS OF THE STATE mean any and all surface and subsurface waters which are
contained in or flow in or through this state, but does not include waters in sewage
systems, waters in treatment works of disposal systems, water in potable water
distribution systems, and all water withdrawn for use until use and treatment have been
completed. Waters of the state include, but are not limited to, all streams, lakes, ponds,
impounding reservoirs, wetlands , watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation
ditches or canals, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface and underground, natural or artificial, public or private, situated wholly or partly
within or bordering upon the State.

WELL means a Deep Geothermal Well, an Oil and Gas Well, a Class II UIC Well, Class
VI UIC Well, a Geologic Storage Science Well, a Geologic Storage Monitoring Well, a
Geothermal Injection Well, a stratigraphic well, a gas storage well, a Geothermal
Science Well, or a Well used for the purpose of monitoring or observing a subsurface
reservoir.

       CLASS VI UIC WELL means Wells that are not experimental in nature that are
       used for Geologic Storage of Injection Carbon Dioxide beneath the lowermost
       Formation containing a USDW; or, wells used for Geologic Storage of Injection
       Carbon Dioxide that have been granted a waiver of the injection depth
       requirements pursuant to Rule 1426; or, wells used for Geologic Storage of
       Injection Carbon Dioxide that have received an expansion to the areal extent of
       an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer
       exemption pursuant to Rule 1402.

       DEEP GEOTHERMAL WELL means a hole drilled for exploration for and
       production of Allocated Geothermal Resources or Geothermal Resources that
       are deeper than two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet below the surface. Deep
       Geothermal Well includes Geothermal Injection Wells.

       GEOLOGIC STORAGE MONITORING WELL means a hole drilled for the
       purpose of obtaining testing and monitoring data pursuant to Rule 1420.

       GEOLOGIC STORAGE SCIENCE WELL means a hole drilled for the purpose of
       obtaining subsurface information to assess the suitability of a site for Geologic
       Storage.

       OIL AND GAS WELL means a hole drilled for the purpose of producing oil or
       gas (including non-hydrocarbon gases such as carbon dioxide and helium).

WELL PLUG means a watertight and gastight seal installed in a borehole or Well to
prevent movement of Fluids.



                                                                                          39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

WELL RECORDS means all records related to the drilling, redrilling, deepening,
repairing, plugging or abandoning of a Well, all other Well operations, and all alterations
to casing and cement.

WELL SITE shall mean the areas that are directly disturbed during the drilling and
subsequent operation of, or affected by production facilities directly associated with any
Well and its associated well pad.

WILDCAT (EXPLORATORY) WELL means any well drilled beyond the known
producing limits of a pool.

WILDLIFE MITIGATION PLAN means a document submitted pursuant to Rules
304.c.(17) and 1201.b for a Location within High Priority Habitat that describes the
implementation of operating requirements pursuant to Rules 1202.a, 1202.b, & 1202.c,
as well as any mitigation requirements pursuant to Rules 1202.d & 1203. A
Compensatory Mitigation Plan to offset the direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect
Impacts to Wildlife Resources pursuant to Rule 1203.b may be a component of the
Wildlife Mitigation Plan.

WILDLIFE PROTECTION PLAN means a document submitted pursuant to Rules
304.c.(17), 1305.B.(3).LL. and/or 1201.a for Locations outside of High Priority Habitat
that describes the implementation of operating requirements pursuant to Rule 1202.a at
the proposed Location.

WILDLIFE RESOURCES means fish, wildlife, and their aquatic and terrestrial habitats
used for all life stages, including reproduction, rearing of young and foraging, and the
migration corridors and seasonal ranges necessary to sustain robust wildlife
populations.

WORKING PAD SURFACE means the portion of an Oil and Gas Location or Geologic
Storage Location that has an improved surface upon which Oil and Gas Operations or
Geologic Storage Operations take place.

ZONE OF INCORPORATION shall mean the soil layer from the soil surface to a depth
of twelve (12) inches below the surface.

ALL OTHER WORDS used herein shall be given their usual customary and accepted
meaning, and all words of a technical nature, or peculiar to the oil and gas industry,
shall be given that meaning which is generally accepted in said oil and gas industry.




                                                                                         40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


200 SERIES GENERAL PROVISIONS

201.   EFFECTIVE SCOPE OF RULES AND REGULATIONS

a.     The Commission’s Rules are promulgated to regulate Oil and Gas Operations in
       a manner to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety,
       welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, and to protect against adverse
       environmental impacts on any air, water, soil, or biological resource resulting
       from Oil and Gas Operations. Except as set forth in Rule 201.d, the
       Commission’s Rules are effective throughout the State of Colorado, and are in
       force in all pools and fields, unless the Commission amends, modifies, alters, or
       enlarges them through orders or Rules that apply to specific individual Pools or
       Fields.

b.     Compliance. The Operator of any Oil and Gas Location, Oil and Gas Facility,
       Well, or any seismic, core, or other exploratory holes, whether cased or uncased,
       will comply with all applicable Commission Rules, and will ensure compliance by
       their contractors and subcontractors.

c.     Nothing in the Commission’s Rules constrains the legal authority conferred to
       Local Governments by §§ 29-20-104, 30-15-401, C.R.S., or any other statute.
       Local Government regulations may be more protective or stricter than state
       requirements.

d.     These rules will not apply to:

       (1)    Indian Lands;

       (2)    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe or its political subdivisions or tribally
       controlled affiliates within the exterior boundaries of the Southern Ute Indian
       Reservation. The Commission’s Rules will apply to non-Indians conducting Oil
       and Gas Operations on lands within the exterior boundaries of the Southern Ute
       Indian Reservation where both the surface and oil and gas estates, are owned in
       fee by persons or entities other than the Southern Ute Indian Tribe, regardless of
       whether such lands are communitized or pooled; or

       (3)    Class VI UIC Wells located on surface lands within the exterior boundaries
       of the Southern Ute Indian Reservation or Ute Mountain Ute Indian Reservation.

e.     The State of Colorado will exercise criminal and civil jurisdiction within the Town
       of Ignacio, Colorado or within any other municipality within the Southern Ute
       Indian Reservation incorporated under the laws of Colorado, pursuant to Sec. 5,
       Public Law No. 98-290 (1984).

f.     Severability. If any portion of the Commission’s Rules are found to be invalid,
       unconstitutional, or otherwise enjoined or overturned through judicial review, the




                                                                                        41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Commission intends for the remaining portion of the Commission’s Rules to
       remain in force and effect.

g.     Incorporated Materials. Where referenced herein, the Commission’s Rules
       incorporate by reference material originally published elsewhere. Such
       incorporation does not include later amendments to or editions of the referenced
       material. Pursuant to § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., the Commission maintains copies
       of the complete text of the incorporated materials for public inspection during
       regular business hours. Copies of the complete text and information regarding
       how the incorporated material may be obtained or examined are available at the
       Commission’s office located at 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado
       80203.

202.   OFFICE AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR

The office of Director of the Commission is hereby created. The Director is responsible
for all Commission staff functions. The Director serves as the custodian of the
Commission’s records. Additional duties of the Director will be as determined from time
to time by the Chair.

203.   OFFICE AND DUTIES OF SECRETARY

The office of Secretary to the Commission is hereby created. The duties of the
Secretary will be as determined from time to time by the Chair.

204.   INSPECTION POWERS

The Director has the right at all reasonable times to go upon and inspect any Oil and
Gas Location, Oil and Gas Facility, disposal facility, or transporter facility, and any
associated records, for the purpose of making any investigation or conducting any tests
to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the Act or the Commission’s Rules or any
special Field rules. Any findings of a Commission Rule violation will be reported to the
Commission.

205.   OPERATOR REGISTRATION

a.     Form 1, Registration and License for Operations. Prior to the commencement
       of their operations, all producers, Operators, transporters, gatherers, and initial
       purchasers who are conducting operations subject to this Act in the State of
       Colorado, will, for purposes of the Act, file a Form 1, Registration and License for
       Operations with the Director. The Form 1, Registration and License for
       Operations is the “license to conduct oil and gas operations” described in § 34-
       60-106(1)(f)(I.5), C.R.S. Effective as of December 1, 2025, all previously
       registered operators who conduct Energy and Carbon Management Operations
       shall be deemed to have licenses subject to the renewal requirements of Rule
       205.c.




                                                                                        42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Any producer, Operator, transporter, gatherer, and initial purchaser
           conducting operations subject to the Act who has not previously filed a
           Form 1, will do so immediately.

     (2)   Any entity providing Financial Assurance for Energy and Carbon
           Management Operators in Colorado will file a Form 1 with the Director.

     (3)   All changes of address of any party required to file a Form 1 will be
           reported immediately via a new Form 1.

b.   Form 1A, Designation of Agent.

     (1)   All Operators will file a Form 1A, Designation of Agent to designate:

           A.     A Principal Agent, who is an employee of the Operator; and

           B.     One or more agents that the Operator approves to serve as its
                  representative(s).

     (2)   Form 1A designations will remain in effect until terminated in writing via a
           new Form 1A.

     (3)   All changes to the Form 1A will be reported immediately via a new Form
           1A.

c.   Form 1B, License Renewal and Annual Registration.

     (1)   An Operator that has filed a Form 1 and is engaged in Energy and Carbon
           Management Operations will file a Form 1B, License Renewal and Annual
           Registration by no later than April 30, 2026, and by April 30 each year
           thereafter. An Operator may not conduct Energy and Carbon Management
           Operations without a timely-filed Form 1B.

     (2)   On the same day the Operator files its Form 1B, the Operator will remit its
           Mitigation Fee and Marginal Well Fee to the Orphan Well Mitigation
           Enterprise consistent with the procedures adopted by the Enterprise
           Board.

     (3)   Annual Mitigation Fee.

           A.     An Operator’s Annual Mitigation Fee will be:

                  i.     $225 per Well, or the amount set by the Enterprise Board if
                         different than the amount stated in this rule, for Operators
                         with an average daily per- Well production greater than 15
                         BOE or 22 MCFE for the previous calendar year; or




                                                                                      43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.    $125 per Well, or the amount set by the Enterprise Board if
                        different than the amount stated in this rule, for Operators
                        with an average daily per- Well production less than or equal
                        to 15 BOE or 22 MCFE for the previous calendar year.

                 iii.   For purposes of this rule, the Operator will use the barrels of
                        oil equivalent (“BOE”) or the thousand cubic feet of gas
                        equivalent (“MCFE”) threshold depending on the aggregate
                        gas-to-oil ratio (“GOR”) of the production from all its Wells
                        over the previous calendar year. The calendar year
                        aggregate GOR is calculated by dividing the Operator’s total
                        gas production (in thousand cubic feet (“MCF”)) over the
                        previous calendar year by the Operator’s total oil production
                        (in barrels of oil (“BBL”)) over the previous calendar year and
                        multiplying by 1,000. The BOE threshold applies to
                        Operators with an aggregate GOR equal to or less than
                        15,000; the MCFE threshold applies to Operators with a
                        GOR greater than 15,000. Operators will use the conversion
                        factor of 5.8 to convert MCF to BBL and vice versa. To
                        calculate the Operator’s average daily per-Well production,
                        the Operator will use their total production, in BOE or MCFE,
                        for the previous calendar year and the number of their
                        existing Wells as of December 31 of the previous calendar
                        year.

           B.    The Operator will pay the fee for every Well it operates as of
                 December 31 of the previous calendar year. After a Well is Spud,
                 the Operator will pay an annual fee for the Well until it is properly
                 Plugged and Abandoned, as confirmed via the approval of a Form
                 6, Well Abandonment Report – Subsequent Report of
                 Abandonment.

           C.    The Operator need not pay a fee for Wells subject to an approved
                 Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill, that have not yet been Spud.

           D.    The Annual Mitigation Fee dollar amount will be modified only by
                 the Enterprise Board.

     (4)   Annual Marginal Well Fee.

           A.    An Operator’s Annual Marginal Well Fee will be $115 per Well, or
                 the amount set by the Enterprise Board if different than the amount
                 stated in this rule.

           B.    The Operator will pay the fee for every Well it operates as of
                 December 31 of the previous calendar year. After a Well is Spud,
                 the Operator will pay an annual fee for the Well until it is properly




                                                                                         44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                     Plugged and Abandoned, as confirmed via the approval of a Form
                     6, Well Abandonment Report – Subsequent Report of
                     Abandonment.

              C.     The Operator need not pay a fee for Wells subject to an approved
                     Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill, that have not yet been Spud.

              D.     The Annual Marginal Well Fee dollar amount will be modified only
                     by the Enterprise Board.

       (5)    Information Requirements for Form 1B.

              A.     On each Form 1B filed annually, the Operator will:

                     i.     List all Wells that it operated as of December 31 of the
                            previous calendar year, and the status of each Well on that
                            date.

                     ii.    Attach to the Form 1B a current Certificate of Good Standing
                            with the Colorado Secretary of State, where applicable; and

                     iii.   Provide notice of any renewals or changes to their general
                            liability insurance during the previous 12 months on their
                            Form 1B and attach the certificate of insurance.

       (6)    The Director will expend the orphaned wells mitigation enterprise cash
              fund, as permitted by the Act.

       (7)    No later than September 1, 2022, and on or before September 1 each
              year thereafter, the Director will report the following information to the
              Enterprise Board and the Commission:

              A.     The progress on plugging, Remediation, and Reclamation of
                     Orphaned Wells and Sites as of the end of the previous Fiscal Year
                     on June 30;

              B.     The total number of Orphaned Wells and Sites that are not plugged
                     or closed;

              C.     Total funding received during the previous Fiscal Year; and

              D.     Total amount spent during the previous Fiscal Year.

206.   RECORDKEEPING AND ACCESS TO RECORDS

a.     As required by the Commission’s Rules, or upon request by the Director or the
       Commission, all Operators will submit the required or requested record,
       information, form, or data in the form or format specified by the Director, which




                                                                                           45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     may include a digital (electronic) only format. Information required by the
     Commission’s Rules or requested by the Director will be submitted at the time
     prescribed in the Commission’s Rules or specified by the Director. If the
     requested document is not within the Operator’s possession, the Director may
     extend the response time. Confidential information will be protected pursuant to
     Rule 223.

b.   All producers, Operators, transporters, refiners, gasoline or other extraction plant
     operators, initial purchasers of oil and gas within this State, and any other
     persons or entities subject to regulation under the Commission’s Rules will keep
     accurate and complete records as required by the Commission’s Rules. The
     Director and the Commission will have access to these records upon request.
     Such records include, but are not limited to:

     (1)    Any record required to be retained by any of the Commission’s Rules;

     (2)    All reports required by the Commission’s Rules to be filed with the Director
            or Commission;

     (3)    Natural gas meter calibration reports;

     (4)    Oil meter calibration reports;

     (5)    Well Records; and

     (6)    All such records and reports related to Oil and Gas Operations regulated
            by the Commission as may be requested by the Director or the
            Commission.

c.   Well Records will show all the formations penetrated, the content and quality of
     oil, gas, or water in each formation tested, the grade, weight, size, and setting
     depth of casing, the type and volume of cement used in drilling the Well, and any
     other information obtained in the course of a Well operation.

     (1)    Well Records Confidentiality. An Operator may request confidentiality
            for a Wildcat (Exploratory) Well by submitting a Form 4, Sundry Notice. If
            the Director determines that the Well qualifies as a Wildcat (Exploratory)
            Well, the Form 5, Drilling Completion Report, Form 5A, Completed Interval
            Report, Form 7, Operator’s Monthly Report of Operations, and all logs run
            will be considered confidential geological or geophysical data pursuant to
            § 24-72-204(3)(a)(IV), C.R.S., and will be kept confidential for 6 months
            after the date of Well completion, unless the Operator gives written
            permission to release the information at an earlier date.

d.   Chemical Inventories.

     (1)    Operators will maintain a Chemical Inventory for each Chemical Product
            used or stored on an Oil and Gas Location, including but not limited to use



                                                                                       46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              in or storage for downhole drilling, completion, Stimulation, workover
              operations, and production operations, during a quarterly reporting period,
              organized by Well Site, in an amount exceeding 500 pounds.

       (2)    The 500 pound reporting threshold in Rule 206.d.(1) is based on the
              cumulative maximum amount of a Chemical Product present at the Oil and
              Gas Location during the quarterly reporting period. Entities maintaining
              Chemical Inventories under this section will update these inventories
              quarterly throughout the life of the Well Site.

       (3)    Operators will maintain the records covered by Rule 206.d in a readily
              retrievable format at the Operator’s local field office.

e.     Transfer of Records. All records and reports required by the Commission’s
       Rules will be transferred to and maintained by any subsequent Operator.

f.     Maintenance of Records.

       (1)    Unless otherwise specified by the Commission’s Rules, Operators will
              maintain and keep all records, reports, and underlying data required by
              the Commission’s Rules for a period of 5 years.

       (2)    Operators will maintain and keep Chemical Inventories and Well Records
              for 5 years after the plugging and abandonment of the applicable Well.

       (3)    Operators will maintain and keep Chemical Inventories for 5 years after
              the closure of an Oil and Gas Location.

207.   REPORTS

Any report required under the Commission’s Rules or requested by the Director or the
Commission will be timely filed, accurate, complete, and comply with the requirements
set forth in the Commission’s Rules or any requirement set by the Director or the
Commission.

208.   CHEMICAL DISCLOSURE

a.     Upon request by the Director, the Commission, a Relevant Local Government,
       Governmental Agency, an emergency responder, or a health professional, the
       Operator, vendor, or service provider will provide a list of the chemical
       constituents, including the specific identity and concentration of each constituent,
       contained in a Chemical Product.

       (1)    Such request may be made as a result of a spill or release, a complaint
              from a potentially adversely Affected Person, or when necessary to protect
              and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
              environment, and wildlife resources.




                                                                                        47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Disclosure of the Chemical constituents contained in a Chemical Product
           will only be made to a health professional when requested for the purpose
           of diagnosis or treatment of an individual who may have been exposed to
           a Chemical used at an Oil and Gas Location.

b.   Trade Secret Chemical Product. The Operator, vendor, or service provider will
     submit a Form 41, Trade Secret Claim of Entitlement to designate the information
     provided under Rule 208.a as a Trade Secret Chemical Product. Upon the
     Director’s approval of the Trade Secret Chemical Product designation, the
     information will be considered confidential pursuant to § 24-72-204(3)(a)(IV),
     C.R.S., and will be exempt from disclosure on the Chemical Disclosure Registry
     form.

     (1)   The Form 41 will include the following contact information: claimant’s
           name, authorized representative, mailing address, and phone number with
           respect to trade secret claims. If such contact information changes, the
           claimant will immediately submit a new Form 41 to the Commission with
           updated information.

     (2)   If the Director denies the Form 41, the Director will immediately notify and
           confer with the Operator, vendor, or service provider that submitted the
           Form 41 regarding the designation before requiring the information to be
           disclosed pursuant to Rule 208.c.

c.   Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Disclosure.

     (1)   Vendor and Service Provider Disclosures. A service provider who
           performs any part of a Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment and a vendor who
           provides Hydraulic Fracturing Additives directly to the Operator for a
           Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment will, with the exception of information
           approved as a Trade Secret Chemical Product pursuant to Rule 208.b,
           furnish the Operator with any information needed for the Operator to
           complete the Chemical Disclosure Registry form and post the form on the
           Chemical Disclosure Registry. The information will be provided as soon as
           possible within 30 days following the conclusion of the Hydraulic
           Fracturing Treatment and in no case later than 90 days after the
           commencement of such Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment.

     (2)   Operator Disclosures. Within 60 days following the conclusion of a
           Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment and in no case later than 120 days after
           the commencement of such Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, the Operator
           of the Well will complete the Chemical Disclosure Registry form and post
           the form on the Chemical Disclosure Registry, including:

           A.     The Operator name;

           B.     The date of the Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment;




                                                                                     48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             C.     The county in which the Well is located;

             D.     The API number for the Well;

             E.     The Well name and number;

             F.     The longitude and latitude of the wellhead;

             G.     The true vertical depth of the Well;

             H.     The total volume of water used in the Hydraulic Fracturing
                    Treatment of the Well or the type and total volume of the base fluid
                    used in the Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, if something other than
                    water;

             I.     Each Hydraulic Fracturing Additive used in the Hydraulic Fracturing
                    Fluid and the trade name, vendor, and a brief descriptor of the
                    intended use or function of each Hydraulic Fracturing Additive in
                    the Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid;

             J.     Each Chemical intentionally added to the Base Fluid;

             K.     The maximum concentration, in percent by mass, of each Chemical
                    intentionally added to the Base Fluid; and

             L.     The Chemical Abstract Service number for each Chemical
                    intentionally added to the Base Fluid, if applicable.

       (3)   Ability to Search for Information. The Chemical Disclosure Registry will
             allow the Director and the public to search and sort the registry for
             Colorado information by geographic area, ingredient, Chemical Abstract
             Service Number, time period, and Operator.

209.   TESTS AND SURVEYS

a.     Tests and Surveys. When deemed necessary and reasonable, the Commission
       authorizes the Director to require that tests or surveys be made to protect and
       minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
       wildlife resources. If the Commission’s Rules do not provide a timeline for
       conducting the test or survey, the Director will designate the time allowed to the
       Operator for compliance.

b.     If the Director requires an Operator to take action pursuant to Rules 209.a or
       218.g, the Operator may appeal the Director’s decision to the Commission
       pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10). The matter will not be assigned to an Administrative
       Law Judge pursuant to Rule 503.h. The Commission will hear the appeal at its
       next regularly scheduled meeting. Operators will continue to comply with any
       requirements identified by the Director pursuant to Rule 209.a until the



                                                                                       49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Commission makes a decision on the appeal. The Commission may uphold the
       Director’s decision if the Commission determines the Director had reasonable
       cause to determine that an Operator’s actions impacted or threatened to impact
       public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, and that
       the action required by the Director was necessary and reasonable to address
       those impacts or threatened impacts. If an Operator does not appeal the
       Director’s decision pursuant to this Rule 209.b, the Director will report the
       decision at the next regularly scheduled Commission hearing.

c.     Bradenhead Test Areas.

       (1)   The Commission may approve specific Fields or portions of Fields as
             Bradenhead Test Areas.

             A.     The Director may propose specific Fields or portions of Fields as
                    Bradenhead Test Areas by providing notice to all Operators on
                    record within the area and by publication.

             B.     The proposed designation, if no protests are timely filed, will be
                    placed upon the Commission consent agenda for the next regular
                    meeting of the Commission following the month in which such
                    notice was given. The Commission will hear the proposed
                    designation pursuant to Rule 519.

             C.     If a protest is timely filed, the Commission will hear the proposed
                    designation pursuant to the Commission’s 500 Series Rules.

       (2)   The Commission order will describe the Bradenhead testing or monitoring
             required and become effective upon approval by the Commission unless
             the Commission orders otherwise.

210.   CORRECTIVE ACTION

a.     The Director or Commission will require correction of any condition necessary to
       protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
       environment, and wildlife resources, or any condition that the Director or
       Commission has reasonable cause to believe is in violation of the Commission’s
       Rules. The Director or Commission may exercise its discretion to set forth the
       manner in which the condition is to be remedied.

b.     When a Field Inspection Report includes a corrective action, upon completion of
       that corrective action the Operator will submit to the Director a Field Inspection
       Report Resolution Form (“FIRR”).




                                                                                          50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

211. PLUGGING AND ABANDONMENT OF WELLS AND CLOSURE OF OIL AND
GAS FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS

a.     An Operator of a Well will Plug and Abandon the Well, Remediate any
       contamination pursuant to the Commission’s 900 Series Rules, and Reclaim the
       Well Site pursuant to the Commission’s 1000 Series Rules if the Commission,
       following a hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(12), determines that Plugging and
       Abandoning is reasonable and necessary to protect or minimize adverse impacts
       to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, or that the
       Well is no longer Used or Useful.

b.     An Operator of an Oil and Gas Location will permanently close an Oil and Gas
       Location or Oil and Gas Facility, properly Plug and Abandon all Wells at the Oil
       and Gas Location pursuant to Rules 434 & 435, Remediate any contamination
       pursuant to the Commission’s 900 Series Rules, and Reclaim the Oil and Gas
       Location pursuant to the Commission’s 1000 Series Rules, if the Commission,
       following a hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(12), determines that such closure is
       necessary to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety,
       welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, or when the Oil and Gas Location
       or Oil and Gas Facility is no longer Used or Useful.

212.   ISOLATION OF COAL SEAMS AND GROUNDWATER

In the conduct of Oil and Gas Operations each Owner or Operator will exercise due
care in the isolation of coal seams and Groundwater.

Special precautions will be taken in drilling and abandoning Wells to guard against any
loss of artesian water from the stratum in which it occurs and the contamination of
Groundwater by produced water, liquid hydrocarbons, or natural gas. Before any oil or
gas Well is completed, all oil, gas, and Groundwater bearing formations above and
below the producing formation(s) will be isolated to prevent the intermingling of
formation fluids and gases between formations.

213.   NOTICE TO THE DIRECTOR AND COMMISSION

a.     Any notice required to be filed with the Commission will be filed in the manner
       and time set forth by the Commission’s Rules.

b.     Emergency Situations.

       (1)    In case of an Emergency Situation where the delay caused by providing
              written notice to the Director would endanger public health, safety,
              welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, any notice or information
              required by the Commission’s Rules may be given to the Director orally.

       (2)    If notice or information is provided orally in the event of an Emergency
              Situation, Operators will provide to the Director the same information in
              writing at the earliest possible time but no later than 3 days following the



                                                                                             51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             Emergency Situation, unless a Commission Rule establishes a different
             timeframe. In the case of such an Emergency Situation, the Director or
             Commission may approve the responsive operation or change to an
             approved operation orally, which will be later confirmed in writing.

       (3)   If public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources are
             threatened, the Operator responsible for the operation causing such threat
             will immediately notify the Director, Relevant and Proximate Local
             Governments, and Surface Owner electronically and orally.

214.   NAMING OF FIELDS

All oil and gas Fields discovered in the State subsequent to the adoption of the
Commission’s Rules will be named by the Director or at the Director's direction.

215.   FORM 29, LOCAL GOVERNMENT INFORMATION

a.     Local Governmental Designee. Each Local Government that designates an
       office for the purposes set forth in the 100 Series will provide the Commission
       written notice of such designation, including the name, address, telephone
       number, electronic mail address, local emergency dispatch, and other
       emergency numbers of the Local Government. It will be the responsibility of such
       Local Governmental Designee to:

       (1)   Provide comment on any pending Form 2A, Oil and Gas Location
             Assessment for which the Local Government is a Relevant or Proximate
             Local Government;

       (2)   Ensure that all documents provided to the Local Governmental Designee
             by oil and gas Operators and the Commission or the Director are
             distributed to the appropriate employees, officials, and offices of the Local
             Government; and

       (3)   Submit a confidentiality agreement to the Director via a Form 29, Local
             Government Information to request the Geographic Information System
             (“GIS”) data submitted through Form 12, Gas Facility Registration/Change
             of Operator and Form 44, Flowline Report.

b.     Contact Information for Notification. To facilitate accurate notification from the
       Commission or the Director to Local Governments, a Local Government may
       provide their electronic mail address to the Director via a Form 29.

c.     If a Local Government, except for a special district, does not provide information
       pursuant to Rules 215.a or 215.b, then the Director will use reasonable best
       efforts to identify the appropriate contact person to provide the Local Government
       notice required by the Commission’s Rules. The Director will only provide notice
       to special districts that request to receive notice pursuant to Rules 215.a & b.




                                                                                        52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

216.   GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEMS

Global Positioning Systems (“GPS”) may be used to locate facilities used in Oil and Gas
Operations provided they meet the following minimum standards:

a.     GPS instruments are differential grade.

b.     GPS instruments are capable of 1-meter horizontal positional accuracy after
       differential correction.

c.     The Operator will report an accuracy value (in meters) or position dilution of
       precision (“PDOP”) value with all submitted GPS data. Accuracies of 1.0 meter or
       less and PDOP readings of 6.0 or less are acceptable.

d.     Elevation mask (lowest acceptable height above the horizon) will be no less than
       15 degrees.

e.     Latitude and longitude coordinates will be provided in decimal degrees with an
       accuracy and precision of 5 decimals of a degree using the North American
       Datum (“NAD”) of 1983 (e.g., latitude 37.12345 N, longitude 104.45632 W).

f.     Raw and corrected data files will be held for a period of 3 years.

g.     Measurements will be made by a trained GPS operator familiar with the theory of
       GPS, the use of GPS instrumentation, and typical constraints encountered during
       field activities.

217.   FORM 8, OIL AND GAS CONSERVATION LEVY

a.     On or before March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
       every producer or purchaser, whichever disburses funds directly to each and
       every person owning a working interest, a royalty interest, an overriding royalty
       interest, a production payment, and other similar interests from the sale of oil or
       natural gas subject to the charge imposed by § 34-60-122(1)(a), C.R.S., will file a
       Form 8, Oil and Gas Conservation Levy with the Director and remit the levy
       payment. The Form 8 will show, by Operator, the volume of oil, gas, or
       condensate produced or purchased during the preceding calendar quarter,
       including the total consideration due or received at the point of delivery. No Form
       8 will be required when the charge imposed is zero mill ($0.0000) per dollar
       value. The levy will be an amount fixed by order of the Commission.

b.     The levy amount may, from time to time, be reduced or increased to meet the
       expenses chargeable against the Oil and Gas Conservation and Environmental
       Response Fund. The present charge imposed, as of October 1, 2020, is $0.0015
       per dollar value.




                                                                                        53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

218.   FORM 9, TRANSFER OF OPERATORSHIP

a.     Definitions.

       (1)    For the purposes of this Rule 218, “Transferable Items” include but are not
              limited to:

              A.      Approved, unexpired Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill; Form
                      2A; Form 15, Earthen Pit Report/Permit; and Form 28, Centralized
                      E&P Waste Management Facility Permit (collectively “Permits”);

              B.      Wells;

              C.      Oil and Gas Locations;

              D.      Oil and Gas Facilities;

              E.      Off-Location Flowlines;

              F.      Open Remediation projects;

              G.      Unresolved Spills and Releases;

              H.      Unresolved Field Inspection Reports with outstanding corrective
                      actions;

              I.      Unresolved warning letters;

              J.      Unresolved Notices of Alleged Violation; and

              K.      Any item listed in Rule 218.a.(1).A–J that is related in the
                      Commission’s records to another Transferable Item proposed for
                      transfer.

b.     Form 9, Transfer of Operatorship – Intent. A Selling Operator will notify the
       Commission about the transfer of any Transferable Item associated with its Oil
       and Gas Operations to a Buying Operator by filing a Form 9, Transfer of
       Operatorship – Intent, with the Commission at least 30 days, or as soon as
       practicable, before the anticipated transfer date. The Form 9 – Intent will include
       the Selling Operator’s understanding of the following information at the time the
       Selling Operator submits the Form 9 – Intent to the Commission, which may
       change prior to the closing date of the transaction:

       (1)    The name of the Buying Operator;

       (2)    The anticipated date for the transfer of all Transferable Items;

       (3)    The complete anticipated list of Transferable Items that are proposed for
              transfer.



                                                                                         54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.    The list will identify Low Producing Wells, Inactive Wells, and Out of
                 Service Wells proposed for transfer.

           B.    For each Low Producing and Inactive Well proposed for transfer,
                 the Selling Operator will provide the following information about the
                 Oil and Gas Location where the Low Producing or Inactive Well is
                 located:

                 i.      Area of initial total disturbance for the Oil and Gas Location;

                 ii.     Number of Wells at the Oil and Gas Location, including how
                         many are proposed for transfer and how many are Low
                         Producing or Inactive Wells;

                 iii.    Whether the Oil and Gas Location has cut-and-fill slopes,
                         and, if yes, the slope ratios (e.g., 4:1) of both the cut slope
                         and the fill slope;

                 iv.     Whether the Oil and Gas Location has sandy soils;

                 v.      Whether any salt kills have occurred at the Oil and Gas
                         Location;

                 vi.     Whether the Oil and Gas Location is within 2,000 feet of a
                         School Facility, Child Care Center, High Occupancy Building
                         Unit, or Residential Building Unit within a Disproportionately
                         Impacted Community;

                 vii.    Whether the Oil and Gas Location is within High Priority
                         Habitat; and

                 viii.   Whether topsoil has been salvaged at the Oil and Gas
                         Location.

           C.    For each Out of Service Well proposed for transfer, the Selling
                 Operator will identify the date by which each Well will be plugged.
                 The transfer of an Out of Service Well will place the Well on a
                 Plugging List for the Buying Operator but will not change the
                 deadline for plugging such Well unless the Buying Operator files a
                 Revised Form 6A pursuant to Rule 434.d.(9).A.

     (4)   The complete list of any Transferable Items that are related in the
           Commission's records to a Transferable Item listed pursuant to Rule
           218.b.(3) but are not proposed for transfer;

     (5)   The estimated amount of Financial Assurance required by the
           Commission’s Rules that the Buying Operator will submit to the




                                                                                           55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          Commission prior to the anticipated date of transfer identified in Rule
          218.b.(2), including:

          A.     Single Well Financial Assurance for each Low Producing Well
                 subject to a transfer listed on a Form 9 – Intent dated after April 30,
                 2022, unless:

                 i.     The Wells have been designated as Out of Service; or

                 ii.    The Buying Operator has submitted a Financial Assurance
                        Plan that accounts for the transfer of the Low Producing
                        Wells, and based on that Plan, Single Well Financial
                        Assurance for the Low Producing Well would not be
                        required.

                 iii.   If the Buying Operator has submitted a Financial Assurance
                        Plan pursuant to Rules 702.d.(3) or (4), any Single Well
                        Financial Assurance for Low Producing Wells required by
                        this Rule 218.b.(5).A will not change the Operator’s timeline
                        to contribute Financial Assurance each year as required
                        pursuant to the Operator’s approved Financial Assurance
                        Plan.

                        aa.    If the Selling Operator has an approved Financial
                               Assurance Plan pursuant to Rules 702.d.(3) or (4),
                               the Buying Operator will assume the Selling
                               Operator’s timeline for providing Single Well Financial
                               Assurance under the Selling Operator’s existing
                               Financial Assurance Plan. Pursuant to Rule 218.e,
                               the Buying Operator will contribute its Financial
                               Assurance in an amount equal to or greater than the
                               Single Well Financial Assurance that the Selling
                               Operator had contributed for the transferred Wells
                               prior to transfer.

                        bb.    If the Selling Operator has an approved Financial
                               Assurance Plan pursuant to Rules 702.d.(1), (2), (5),
                               or (6), the Buying Operator will incorporate the
                               transferred Wells into its approved Single Well
                               Financial Assurance timeline pursuant to the Buying
                               Operator’s approved, pre-transfer Financial
                               Assurance Plan.

          B.     The amount of Financial Assurance required by Rules 702, 703, &
                 704 for all Transferable Items other than Low Producing Wells; and

          C.     The type(s) of Financial Assurance the Buying Operator intends to
                 provide pursuant to Rule 701.



                                                                                      56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            D.     The Director, Selling Operator, or Buying Operator may request the
                   Commission determine a different amount of Financial Assurance
                   by requesting a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
                   503.g.(11).

     (6)    The estimated impact of the transfer on the Selling Operator’s Financial
            Assurance Plan.

     (7)    Attached Attestations. An attestation signed by the Selling Operator and
            the Buying Operator attesting to all contents of the Form 9 – Intent.

     (8)    If the proposed transfer is subject to a non-disclosure or confidentiality
            agreement between the Selling Operator and the Buying Operator, the
            Selling Operator will indicate on the Form 9 – Intent that the proposed
            transfer is considered confidential, and the Director will keep the Form 9 –
            Intent and any other associated information confidential pursuant to § 24-
            72-204(3)(a)(IV), C.R.S., until the Form 9, Transfer of Operatorship –
            Subsequent is filed.

c.   The Selling Operator will remit with the Form 9 – Intent the filing fee provided in
     Appendix III.

d.   Revised Financial Assurance Plans. Prior to the proposed anticipated date of
     transfer identified on the Form 9 – Intent, the Buying Operator and Selling
     Operator will each file a revised Financial Assurance Plan pursuant to Rule
     702.b.(2) that takes into account the anticipated transaction.

e.   Financial Assurance Submission. Consistent with the Buying Operator’s
     revised Financial Assurance Plan filed pursuant to Rule 218.d, the Buying
     Operator will submit the estimated amount of Financial Assurance required as a
     result of the transfer to the Commission prior to the date of transfer.

f.   Form 9, Transfer of Operatorship – Subsequent.

     (1)    When a transaction subject to a Form 9 – Intent becomes final, the Buying
            Operator will submit a Form 9 – Subsequent within 7 days of closing. The
            Form 9 – Subsequent will include:

            A.     The effective date of transfer;

            B.     The complete list of Transferable Items that:

                   i.     Were transferred to the Buying Operator;

                   ii.    Are related in the Commission's records to a Transferable
                          Item listed pursuant to Rule 218.f.(1).B.i but were not
                          transferred, and:




                                                                                       57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       aa.    Whether the Selling Operator retained responsibility
                              for compliance with the Commission’s Rules for any
                              Transferable Item listed pursuant to Rule
                              218.f.(1).B.ii; or

                       bb.    Whether a Prior Operator retained responsibility for
                              compliance with the Commission’s Rules for any
                              Transferable Item listed pursuant to Rule
                              218.f.(1).B.ii; and

                iii.   Were listed on the Form 9 – Intent pursuant to Rules
                       218.b.(3) & (4) but were not transferred to the Buying
                       Operator upon closing, and:

                       aa.    Whether the Selling Operator retained responsibility
                              for compliance with the Commission’s Rules for any
                              Transferable Item listed pursuant to Rule
                              218.f.(1).B.iii; or

                       bb.    Whether a Prior Operator retained responsibility for
                              compliance with the Commission’s Rules for any
                              Transferable Item listed pursuant to Rule
                              218.f.(1).B.iii.

          C.    Attached Attestations.

                i.     An attestation signed by the Selling Operator and the Buying
                       Operator attesting to all contents of the Form 9 –
                       Subsequent;

                ii.    If applicable, an attestation signed by the Selling Operator
                       attesting that the Selling Operator retains responsibility for
                       compliance with the Commission’s Rules for any
                       Transferable Item listed in Rules 218.f.(1).B.ii.aa or
                       218.f.(1).B.iii.aa; and

                iii.   An attestation signed by the Buying Operator that the Buying
                       Operator notified the Relevant Local Government in which
                       any Transferable Item is located of the completed
                       transaction in writing.

          D.    Subsequent Liability.

                i.     For Transferable Items listed in Rule 218.f.(1).B.i an
                       acknowledgment that upon the effective date of transfer, the
                       Buying Operator assumes all responsibility for compliance
                       with the Act, the Commission’s Rules, and all terms and




                                                                                        58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         conditions of existing Permits and Commission orders for the
                         Transferable Items;

                  ii.    For Transferable Items listed in Rules 218.f.(1).B.ii or iii, an
                         acknowledgment that the Buying Operator may be or may
                         become responsible for compliance with the Act, the
                         Commission’s Rules, and all terms and conditions of existing
                         Permits and Commission orders if the Buying Operator takes
                         any action, or fails to take any action, that would cause such
                         Transferable Item to be out of compliance with the Act, the
                         Commission’s Rules, and all terms and conditions of existing
                         Permits and Commission orders; and

                  iii.   For Transferable Items not listed in Rules 218.f.(1).B.i–iii but
                         related in the Commission’s records, an acknowledgment
                         that the Commission will presume that the Transferable Item
                         was transferred, and that the Buying Operator is responsible
                         for compliance with the Act, the Commission’s Rules, and all
                         terms and conditions of existing Permits and Commission
                         orders for the Transferable Items.

     (2)   If an anticipated transaction that is the subject of a Form 9 – Intent does
           not occur, the Selling Operator will notify the Director in writing. The
           Director will withdraw the Form 9 – Intent.

g.   The Director will review the Form 9 – Intent and Form 9 – Subsequent upon
     receipt. The Director will approve the Form 9 – Intent and Form 9 – Subsequent
     within 45 business days of when all of the following have occurred:

     (1)   The Director has determined that all Permits described in Rule
           218.f.(1).B.i subject to the proposed transfer comply with the
           Commission’s current Rules in effect at the time of the proposed transfer;

     (2)   If a Permit described in Rule 218.f.(1).B.i is not in compliance with the Act,
           the Commission’s Rules, and all terms and conditions of existing Permits
           and Commission orders on the date of transfer, the Director has
           determined that the Selling Operator, Buying Operator, or Prior Operator
           has submitted a satisfactory plan to bring such Permit into compliance;

     (3)   The Director has determined that the Form 9 – Intent and Form 9 –
           Subsequent are complete and comply with this Rule 218; and

     (4)   The Buying Operator has submitted the Financial Assurance required by
           the Commission’s Rules. If a Commission hearing is required because the
           Buying Operator requests a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
           218.b.(5).D, then Director will not approve the Form 9 – Intent and Form 9
           – Subsequent until the Commission has held the Financial Assurance
           hearing pursuant to Rule 510.



                                                                                         59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

h.     The Director may deny the Form 9 – Intent and Form 9 – Subsequent and the
       Selling Operator will remain responsible for compliance with the Commission’s
       Rules for the proposed Transferable Items:

       (1)   If the Form 9 – Intent or Form 9 – Subsequent fail to satisfy Rules 218.b or
             218.f;

       (2)   If the Selling Operator did not remit the filing fee required by Rule 218.c;

       (3)   If the Buying Operator fails to submit the amount or type of Financial
             Assurance required by the Commission’s Rules or required by a
             Commission order approved during a Financial Assurance hearing; or

       (4)   If the Buying Operator does not submit a Form 9 – Subsequent within 120
             days following the anticipated date for transfer identified in Rule 218.b.(1).

i.     Addressing an Operator’s Failure to Comply with Transfer Requirements.

       (1)   If a Buying Operator operates a Well or Wells for 60 days or more without
             obtaining the Director’s approval of a Form 9 – Intent and Form 9 –
             Subsequent, the Director may require all such Wells to be shut-in,
             consistent with the Well shut-in safety requirements of Rule 434. All such
             Wells will remain shut-in until the Director approves a Form 9 – Intent and
             Form 9 – Subsequent. An Operator that objects to a shut-in order may
             request an expedited hearing before the Commission pursuant to the
             expedited appeal procedures described in Rule 209.b.

       (2)   If the Buying Operator fails to file a satisfactory replacement Financial
             Assurance pursuant to Rule 218.g.(4) and the Selling Operator is unable
             to maintain adequate Financial Assurance to comply with all its obligations
             under the Act and Commission’s Rules, the Director may file an
             application pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11). The Director may request an
             expedited hearing in the application and the Secretary will notice the
             hearing pursuant to Rule 503.a at the time the Director files the
             application.

j.     The Director will not approve a Form 10, Certificate of Clearance submitted by
       the Buying Operator for a transferred Well unless there is an approved Form 9 –
       Intent and an approved Form 9 – Subsequent.

k.     A Form 9 is not required for the change of Operator of gas gathering systems,
       gas processing plants, and underground gas storage facilities, which are
       governed by Rule 220.c.

219.   FORM 10, CERTIFICATE OF CLEARANCE

a.     The Operator of a Well will file with the Director a Form 10, Certificate of
       Clearance to designate the transporter(s) and gatherer(s), as applicable, for the



                                                                                            60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Well. The certificate, when properly executed and approved by the Commission,
       constitutes authorization to the Pipeline or other transporter to transport the
       authorized Fluid from the Well named therein; provided that this section will not
       prevent the production or transportation in order to prevent waste, pending
       execution, and approval of said certificate.

b.     Within 30 days after initial sale of oil or gas, each Operator of a new Well will file
       a Form 10 with the Director for the Well.

c.     The Operator of a Well will file a new Form 10 to change the transporter or
       gatherer for the Well within 30 days of the change.

       (1)    In the case of other transporter temporary changes involving the
              production of less than 1 month, the Operator will notify the Director via a
              Form 10 indicating the dates of the temporary changes.

       (2)    In the case of temporary use of oil for Well treating or stimulating
              purposes, a new Form 10 is not required.

d.     A new Operator will file a new Form 10 within 30 days of the date the Director
       approves the Form 9 – Subsequent pursuant to Rule 218.e.

e.     Operators will pay the filing fee provided in Appendix III when filing a Form 10.

f.     The Form 10 will remain in force and effect until:

       (1)    The Operator of the Well is changed;

       (2)    The transporter or gatherer is changed; or

       (3)    The certificate is suspended by the Commission.

g.     It is the Operator's responsibility to provide electronic or paper copies of the
       approved Form 10 to the transporter or gatherer for each Well listed.

220.   FORM 12, GAS FACILITY REGISTRATION/CHANGE OF OPERATOR

a.     Facility Registration. The Operator of a new gas gathering system, a new gas
       compressor station, a new gas processing plant, or a new underground gas
       storage facility will submit a Form 12, Gas Facility Registration/Change of
       Operator, within 30 days of placing the new facility into service. The following
       information will be included:

       (1)    The name and type of system or facility;

       (2)    For a gas compressor station or a gas processing plant, the latitude and
              longitude of the southeast corner of the facility and the legal location by
              quarter-quarter, section, township, range, and county;




                                                                                            61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)   For a gas gathering system or an underground gas storage facility, latitude
             and longitude of a point near the center of the system or facility, and a
             description of the geographic area by section, township, range, and
             county;

       (4)   For a gas compressor station, a gas processing plant, or an underground
             gas storage facility, a facility layout drawing;

       (5)   For an underground gas storage facility, a certification of federal approval,
             if applicable; and

       (6)   For a gas gathering system, GIS data that includes the gathering line
             alignment, isolation valves, and the following attributes:

             A.     Fluid type;

             B.     Pipe material type; and

             C.     Type size.

             D.     GIS data will be submitted in the NAD of 1983 and in a format
                    approved by the Director. Information submitted pursuant to this
                    Rule 220.a.(6) will be disclosed at the same mapping scale
                    provided in and kept confidential pursuant to the procedures in Rule
                    1101.e.

b.     Annual Reports. For a gas gathering system, gas processing plant, gas
       compressor station, or underground storage facility that has had any Gathering
       Lines added or removed during the preceding year, the Operator will submit a
       Form 12 by May 1st of each year to report the changes made during the prior
       calendar year. For an underground storage facility that has had an expansion or
       reduction of its capacity of more than 10% during the preceding year, the
       Operator will submit a Form 12 by May 1st of each year to report the changes
       made during the prior calendar year.

c.     Change of Operator. The previous or new Operator of a gas gathering system,
       gas compressor station, gas processing plant, or an underground gas storage
       facility, will submit a Form 12 within 30 days of change of Operator.
       Documentation confirming transfer of ownership will be attached to the Form 12.

d.     Gas Storage Projects. The Commission's 800 Series Rules do not apply to Gas
       Storage Wells and underground gas storage facilities.

221.   PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND ROADS

All persons subject to the Act and the Commission’s Rules are subject to the State
Vehicles and Traffic Laws pursuant to Title 42, C.R.S., and the State Transportation




                                                                                        62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

Laws, Title 43, C.R.S., pertaining to the use of public highways or roads within the state
for Oil and Gas Operations.

222.   FORM 18, COMPLAINT REPORT

a.     A complaint regarding Oil and Gas Operations is filed by submitting a Form 18,
       Complaint Report.

b.     The Director will investigate any complaint and determine what, if any, action will
       be taken pursuant to Rule 524.

223.   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

a.     If an Operator seeks to submit information that is listed as confidential in Rule
       223.b below, the Operator will:

       (1)    Confer with the Director prior to submitting the information to verify that it
              qualifies as confidential pursuant to the Commission’s Rules. If the
              Director determines that the documents or submissions are not
              confidential, the Operator need not submit the information after the
              conferral process, unless required to do so by a Commission Rule.

       (2)    If associated with a form submittal, submit the information as a confidential
              attachment to a form, not on a form itself.

       (3)    Submit both a redacted and non-redacted version of the confidential
              information, unless the Director confirms orally or in writing that a non-
              redacted version does not need to be submitted. The non-redacted
              version will be labeled CONFIDENTIAL in a conspicuous location at the
              top of the document.

b.     Confidential information may include:

       (1)    Monetary amounts, payment terms, drilling obligations, or personal
              information listed on Surface Use Agreements;

       (2)    Monetary amounts, payment terms, drilling obligations, or personal
              information listed on oil and gas leases;

       (3)    Monetary amounts, payments, or personal information listed in a right-of-
              way or easement agreement;

       (4)    Information concerning ongoing commercial negotiations regarding
              potential or planned routing and location of off-lease midstream gathering
              system infrastructure and information concerning landowner negotiations
              for which rights-of-way have not yet been obtained;




                                                                                           63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (5)    Confidential geological or geophysical Well Records pertaining to Wildcat
              (Exploratory) Wells for a 6 month period pursuant to §§ 24-72-
              204(3)(a)(IV) & 34-60-106(1)(b), C.R.S.;

       (6)    Information about a proposed transfer of permits and assets pursuant to
              Rule 218.b.(7);

       (7)    Sensitive wildlife habitat information that the Operator is required to hold in
              confidence by other federal, state, or tribal regulatory agencies;

       (8)    Sensitive cultural information that the Operator is required to hold in
              confidence by other federal, state, or tribal regulatory agencies;

       (9)    Sensitive Public Water System information if the Public Water System
              administrator requests that it be held in confidence;

       (10)   Personal medical information submitted on a Form 22, Accident Report;

       (11)   Non-public and confidential financial information submitted as part of a
              Financial Assurance Plan pursuant to Rule 702 or a demonstration of
              costs for Single Well Financial Assurance; and

       (12)   Other information that the Operator designates as confidential if the
              Director concurs that the information meets the confidentiality provisions
              of the Colorado Open Records Act.

224.   COMMUNITY LIAISON

a.     Authority. Pursuant to § 34-60-104.5(2)(d)(III), C.R.S. (2024), a Community
       Liaison reports to the Director and serves as a dedicated resource for
       Disproportionately Impacted Communities regarding Commission regulation. The
       Director will appoint at least two Community Liaisons.

b.     Qualifications. A Community Liaison will be qualified by training or experience in
       environmental justice, with consideration for experience in regulatory or
       environmental processes or subjects that the Commission regulates if possible,
       and should have been a resident of one or more Disproportionately Impacted
       Communities or have worked to advance environmental justice within
       Disproportionately Impacted Communities.

c.     Duties. A Community Liaison’s duties will include, but are not limited to:

       (1)    Serving as an advocate for Disproportionately Impacted Communities in a
              nonlegal capacity and, while taking into consideration the engagement
              practices in § 24-4-109(3)(b), C.R.S. (2024), acting as a liaison between
              Disproportionately Impacted Community members and the Commission
              on all matters within the Commission’s jurisdiction that may impact




                                                                                          64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            Disproportionately Impacted Community members, including, but not
            limited to, communications regarding the permitting process;

     (2)    Being invited by the Director to attend all pre-application consultations for
            Oil and Gas Development Plan applications with Operations proposed
            within a Disproportionately Impacted Community to assist
            Disproportionately Impacted Community members in understanding the
            Commission’s permitting processes and other opportunities for
            engagement;

     (3)    Reviewing Community Outreach Plans submitted pursuant to Rule
            304.c.(19) and providing feedback to the Director and nonlegal comments
            to Disproportionately Impacted Community members;

     (4)    Providing Disproportionately Impacted Community members with relevant
            information regarding third-party resources, including but not limited to
            information regarding access to legal assistance to aid Disproportionately
            Impacted Community members in presenting their views to the
            Commission;

     (5)    Working to improve the relationships and interactions between
            Disproportionately Impacted Communities and the Commission;

     (6)    Assisting Disproportionately Impacted Community members by connecting
            them with resources and information regarding the Commission’s
            complaint process and facilitating outreach regarding complaints to
            Operators and the Director;

     (7)    Acting as a resource for sharing information between the Commission and
            Disproportionately Impacted Communities;

     (8)    Engaging in outreach to Disproportionately Impacted Communities;

     (9)    Organizing and attending in-person meetings within Disproportionately
            Impacted Communities;

     (10)   Assisting, in a nonlegal capacity, Disproportionately Impacted Community
            members in understanding and accessing resources related to community
            benefit agreements; and

     (11)   Providing to the Director, for inclusion in the Director’s Recommendation,
            a written review of the Operator’s efforts to engage Disproportionately
            Impacted Community members and the perspectives of the
            Disproportionately Impacted Community members regarding the
            Operations proposed in the Oil and Gas Development Plan application.

d.   Independent Positions. Neither the Commission nor the Director may direct the
     Community Liaison to take any specific position on a substantive issue within the



                                                                                       65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Community Liaison’s duties. The Community Liaison may not take any specific
     position on a substantive issue within the Community Liaison’s duties.

e.   Timing of Hiring. The Director will initiate recruitment for at least two Community
     Liaisons before December 31, 2024. Beginning on December 4, 2024, and
     continuing until such time the first two Community Liaisons are hired, the Director
     will provide the Commission with a monthly update on the status of efforts to hire
     the Community Liaisons. The Director will post a written summary of each update
     on the Commission’s website. The timing of hiring will not impact or delay
     applications or permits pending or submitted to the Commission during the
     Director’s hiring period.




                                                                                     66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


300 SERIES PERMITTING PROCESS

301. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL, CHANGES TO OPERATIONS,
AND FILING FEES FOR OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS

a.   Approval. All operations governed by any regulation in this Series require written
     approval of the Commission, or Director where applicable. The Commission or
     Director, where applicable, will approve operations only if they protect and
     minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
     wildlife resources, and protect against adverse environmental impacts on any air,
     water, soil, or Biological Resource resulting from Oil and Gas Operations.
     Operators will obtain the Commission’s or Director’s, where applicable, approval
     through the procedures provided in this and such other applicable Commission
     Rules. The Commission, or Director, where applicable, may require any
     conditions of approval that are determined to be necessary and reasonable to
     protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
     environment, and wildlife resources, or to protect against adverse environmental
     impacts on any air, water, soil, or biological resource resulting from Oil and Gas
     Operations.

b.   Denial. The Commission may deny an Oil and Gas Development Plan, and the
     Commission or Director may deny Oil and Gas Operations if it does not comply
     with the Commission’s Rules or the Act.

c.   Changes to Approved Oil and Gas Development Plans.

     (1)   Operators will file any proposed change to an approved Oil and Gas
           Development Plan with the Director in writing through a Form 4, Sundry
           Notice. The Form 4 will be posted to the Commission’s website at least 14
           days prior to approval or denial of the requested change.

     (2)   The Director will determine what applications, forms, and information are
           required for the review and approval of the proposed change, and
           whether:

           A.     The proposed change is significant and requires Commission
                  approval;

           B.     The proposed change requires consultation with the Colorado
                  Department of Public Health and Environment (“CDPHE”) or
                  Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife (“CPW”); or

           C.     The proposed change will not alter the basis upon which the Oil
                  and Gas Development Plan is approved and can be
                  administratively approved by the Director.




                                                                                    67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)    The Operator will not begin work until the Director or Commission provides
            written approval.

     (4)    The Director or Commission will only approve changes that comply with
            the Commission’s Rules.

     (5)    Notice of a Director-approved change to an Oil and Gas Development
            Plan will be posted to the Commission’s website.

d.   Filing Fees. Operators will pay filing fees at the time of applying for a Form 2A,
     Oil and Gas Location Assessment; Form 2, Application for Permit-to-Drill; Drilling
     and Spacing Unit; Oil and Gas Development Plan; or Comprehensive Area Plan
     (“CAP”) (see Appendix III). Wells drilled for stratigraphic information only will be
     exempt from paying the filing fee.

e.   The Director or Commission may request any information necessary and
     reasonable to make a final determination of approval or denial on any permit
     application before the Commission. In such information requests, the Director or
     Commission will provide the reasoning for the request and a reasonable
     timeframe for the applicant to provide the information.

f.   Coordination with Local Governments and Federal Agencies.

     (1)    Purpose. The Commission, Local Governments, and federal surface
            management agencies all share authority to require permits for the
            surface impacts of Oil and Gas Operations. Recognizing that each
            permitting authority brings its own, unique expertise in reviewing a permit,
            the Commission supports creating coordinated, efficient processes among
            the permitting authorities.

     (2)    Concurrent Permitting. Where possible, the Commission prefers
            Operators to follow the concurrent permit review process pursuant to Rule
            303.a.(6).A to allow each permitting authority to coordinate sharing its
            unique expertise and standards.

     (3)    Local Government or Federal Agency Pre-Application Meeting. Prior
            to an Operator submitting an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP
            application to the Commission, at the request of the Relevant Local
            Government or federal agency, the Director will participate in a pre-
            application meeting, which is a Formal Consultation Process with the
            Relevant Local Government or federal agency and the Operator to discuss
            Oil and Gas Location siting, alternative location analysis, Cumulative
            Impacts including Area of Evaluation, Best Management Practices,
            conditions of approval, anticipated milestones and events in the state and
            federal or local permitting processes, opportunities for collaboration, and
            other related topics regarding the Operator’s planned development within
            the Relevant Local Government’s or federal agency’s jurisdiction.




                                                                                       68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     If the Relevant Local Government or federal agency does not
                  request a pre-application meeting pursuant to this Rule 301.f.(3),
                  the Director will host a pre-application meeting pursuant to Rule
                  301.g.

           B.     If the pre-application meeting held pursuant to this Rule 301.f.(3)
                  does not meet the requirements of Rule 301.g, the Director will host
                  a pre-application meeting pursuant to Rule 301.g.

     (4)   Sequential Permitting. An Operator may pursue a permit from the federal
           government or a Relevant Local Government before applying for an Oil
           and Gas Development Plan pursuant to Rule 303. A Relevant Local
           Government or federal agency may request that the Director participate as
           a referral agency in a Formal Consultation Process about a proposed local
           or federal permit. If the Director receives such a request, the Operator will
           provide the Director with the local or federal permit application or its
           materials prior to the Formal Consultation. If the Director receives such a
           request, the Director will consult and will use best efforts to identify any
           potential conflicts, differences, or concerns that may exist regarding the
           proposed location(s) and the Commission’s Rules.

g.   Pre-Application Meeting Requirements.

     (1)   Director’s Pre-Application Meeting. Except as provided in Rule
           301.f.(3), an Operator will submit a written request for, and participate in,
           at least one pre-application meeting with the Director prior to the Operator
           submitting an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP application to the
           Commission.

           A.     Purpose and Content of the Director’s Pre-Application
                  Meeting. The Director will participate in at least one pre-application
                  meeting with the Operator and all persons identified pursuant to
                  Rule 301.g.(2).B. The purpose of the Director’s pre-application
                  meeting is for the Director, Operator, and the invited participants in
                  Rule 301.g.(2).B to engage in a collaborative discussion regarding
                  the processes, standards, and submittal requirements for a
                  proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP application.
                  During the Director’s pre-application meeting, the Director,
                  Operator, and participants may discuss some or all of the following
                  items:

                  i.     Oil and Gas Location siting, including whether a proposed
                         Location may be located within a Disproportionately
                         Impacted Community; may have a Working Pad Surface
                         proposed within 2,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit,
                         High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
                         Center; may be within High Priority Habitat; or may be in




                                                                                       69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        proximity to other sensitive receptors that may require
                        consideration;

                ii.     Alternative location analysis;

                iii.    Cumulative Impacts issues, including but not limited to:

                        aa.    The Operator’s NOx and Greenhouse Gas Intensity
                               Target statuses, as demonstrated by the Operator’s
                               most recent annual report submitted pursuant to
                               AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B;

                        bb.    The default Area of Evaluation;

                        cc.    Past, present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future
                               Development in the Area of Evaluation; and

                        dd.    Best Management Practices and Enhanced Systems
                               and Practices;

                iv.     Lesser impact area exemption requests;

                v.      Anticipated milestones and events in the state and federal or
                        local permitting processes;

                vi.     Refile or amended permit status;

                vii.    Local land use plans, including topics related to surrounding
                        compatibility, comprehensive area plans, subarea plans, and
                        future land use designations; and

                viii.   Any other related topics regarding the Operator’s planned
                        development within the jurisdiction of the Relevant or
                        Proximate Local Government or federal agency.

          B.    Participants. The Director’s pre-application meeting will include, at
                minimum, the Operator and the Director. The Operator will also
                invite following persons to attend:

                i.      All Local Governments within 1 mile of the proposed Oil and
                        Gas Location(s);

                ii.     Any federal or state agency with land use jurisdiction over
                        the application lands or minerals;

                iii.    CDPHE;

                iv.     CPW; and




                                                                                      70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                vi.   A Community Liaison, if the proposed Oil and Gas Location
                      is within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

           C.   Timing of the Director’s Pre-Application Meeting. The Director
                will hold at least one pre-application meeting within 30 days of
                receiving an Operator’s written request and such meeting may be
                in-person, virtual, or hybrid.

           D.   Waiver. Any person identified pursuant to Rule 301.g.(1).B may
                waive their right to participate in the Director’s pre-application
                meeting upon written notice to the Director or through lack of
                attendance in such consultation. Such waiver will be documented in
                the Operator’s Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP application.
                Any person may reinstate their right to participate upon notice to
                the Director.

           E.   Results of the Director’s Pre-Application Meeting.

                i.    The Operator will:

                      aa.    Provide a written summary of the Director’s pre-
                             application meeting(s) to the Director and all persons
                             in attendance at the meeting, to be sent electronically
                             within 10 days of such meeting; and

                      bb.    Include the written summary as part of the Oil and
                             Gas Development Plan application as an attachment
                             to the Form 2A(s) or within the CAP application.

                ii.   The Director may include a discussion of the written
                      summary of the Director’s pre-application meeting in the
                      Director’s Recommendation.

     (2)   Pre-Application Community Meeting.

           A.   Applicability. This Rule 301.g.(2) applies to any Oil and Gas
                Development Plan or CAP application where an Oil and Gas
                Location may be proposed:

                i.    Within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit, High
                      Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
                      Center; or

                ii.   Within 4,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit, High
                      Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
                      Center in a Disproportionately Impacted Community.




                                                                                  71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          B.    An Operator will hold a pre-application community meeting no less
                than 30 days prior to submitting an Oil and Gas Development Plan
                or CAP application that meets the criteria of Rule 301.g.(2).A.

                i.     Purpose. The purpose of the pre-application community
                       meeting is to facilitate an opportunity for the Operator to
                       provide an overview of its proposal and solicit feedback and
                       input from local community members that will be considered
                       by the Operator prior to submitting an Oil and Gas
                       Development Plan or CAP application that meets the criteria
                       in Rule 301.g.(2).A.

                ii.    Participants. The Operator will host the pre-application
                       community meeting and invite the following persons to
                       attend, at minimum:

                       aa.   The Director;

                       bb.   The Community Liaison, if the Oil and Gas
                             Development Plan or CAP application involves an Oil
                             and Gas Location that may be proposed within 4,000
                             feet of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy
                             Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center in
                             a Disproportionately Impacted Community;

                       cc.   All Relevant and Proximate Local Governments; and

                       dd.   All residents (including owners, agents, or tenants) of
                             a Residential Building Unit or High Occupancy
                             Building Unit, and administrators of School Facilities
                             and Child Care Centers, if the Oil and Gas
                             Development Plan or CAP application may involve an
                             Oil and Gas Location that is:

                             1.     Within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit,
                                    High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility,
                                    or Child Care Center; or

                             2.     Within 4,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit,
                                    High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility,
                                    or Child Care Center in a Disproportionately
                                    Impacted Community.

                iii.   The Operator will determine the date, time, type, and
                       location of the meeting with input from the Director or
                       Community Liaison, and the meeting will be held within, or in
                       close proximity to, the residents as described in Rules
                       301.g.(2).A.i and ii. The pre-application community meeting



                                                                                  72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        will be open to the general public. The pre-application
                        community meeting will include an opportunity for attendees
                        to provide an electronic mail address in order to receive
                        written correspondence from the Operator, Community
                        Liaison, or Commission regarding the proposed Oil and Gas
                        Location(s).

                  iv.   Notice.

                        aa.    The Operator will provide notice of the pre-application
                               community meeting to all Surface Owners, Building
                               Unit and High Occupancy Building Unit owners and
                               tenants, and residents, including tenants of both
                               residential and commercial properties, within 1/2 mile
                               of a proposed Oil and Gas Location, and within 4,000
                               feet of a proposed Oil and Gas Location for any
                               Building Units or High Occupancy Building Units
                               within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

                        bb.    Notice of the pre-application community meeting will
                               comply with the procedural and substantive
                               requirements of Rules 303.e.(2) & (3). Notice may be
                               accomplished by sending the notice addressed to
                               “Current Resident.” The Operator may also post
                               information about the meeting on its website or social
                               media accounts.

                  v.    Written Summary. The Operator will provide a written
                        summary of the pre-application community meeting as part
                        of the Oil and Gas Development Plan application as an
                        attachment to the Form 2A(s), or with the CAP application.
                        The Director may include a discussion of the written
                        summary of the pre-application community meeting in the
                        Director’s Recommendation.

h.   Incorporation by Reference. Pursuant to § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., the
     Commission incorporates by reference into these 300 Series Rules Colorado
     Department of Public Health and Environment, Air Quality Control Commission
     (“AQCC”), Regulation No. 7, Control of Emissions from Oil and Gas Emissions
     Operations, 5 C.C.R. § 1001-9, et seq. (hereinafter “AQCC Regulation No. 7”).
     Only the version of AQCC Regulation No. 7 in effect as of December 15, 2024
     applies; later amendments do not apply. AQCC Regulation No. 7 may be
     examined at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300
     Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is available online at
     https://cdphe.colorado.gov/aqcc-regulations.




                                                                                     73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

302.   LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

a.     Nothing in the Commission’s Rules constrains the legal authority conferred to
       Local Governments by §§ 24-65.1-101 et seq., 29-20-104, 30-15-401, C.R.S., or
       any other statute, to regulate surface Oil and Gas Operations in a manner that is
       more protective or stricter than the Commission’s Rules.

b.     Local Government Siting Information. With their Oil and Gas Development
       Plan, or, if applicable, with their Form 2A or Drilling and Spacing Unit application,
       Operators will submit to the Director certification that:

       (1)    The Relevant Local Government does not regulate the siting of Oil and
              Gas Locations;

       (2)    The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Oil and Gas
              Locations, and has denied the siting of the proposed Oil and Gas
              Location;

       (3)    The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Oil and Gas
              Locations, and has approved the siting of the proposed Oil and Gas
              Location; or

       (4)    The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Oil and Gas
              Locations, and the final siting decision of the proposed Oil and Gas
              Location has not yet been determined.

c.     Director’s Review of Local Government Siting Information.

       (1)    For proposed Oil and Gas Locations listed in Rule 302.b.(1), the Director
              will conduct a siting review pursuant to the Commission’s 300 Series
              Rules.

       (2)    For proposed Oil and Gas Locations listed in Rule 302.b.(2), the
              Commission will not approve the proposed Oil and Gas Location without a
              hearing before the Commission, rather than an Administrative Law Judge
              or Hearing Officer.

       (3)    For proposed Oil and Gas Locations listed in Rule 302.b.(3), the Director
              will consider the Relevant Local Government’s siting disposition.

       (4)    For proposed Oil and Gas Locations listed in Rule 302.b.(4), the Operator
              will update the Director with the final disposition of the local siting permit
              within 7 days of receipt of the disposition.

d.     With their Oil and Gas Development Plan, or, if applicable, with their Form 2A,
       Operators will state whether the proposed Oil and Gas Location is subject to the
       requirements of § 24-65.1-108, C.R.S., because it is located in an area
       designated as one of state interest.



                                                                                          74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

e.   Notice to Relevant and Proximate Local Governments. An Operator will notify
     any Relevant and Proximate Local Governments that it plans to submit an Oil
     and Gas Development Plan no less than 30 days prior to submitting an Oil and
     Gas Development Plan. The notice will comply with the procedural and
     substantive requirements of Rules 303.e.(2) & (3).

f.   Local Government Waiving Authority.

     (1)   At any time, a Local Government may, by providing written notice to the
           Director on a Form 29, Local Government Information, and any relevant
           Operators:

           A.     Waive its right to receive notice under any or all of the
                  Commission’s Rules; or

           B.     Certify that it chooses not to regulate the siting of Oil and Gas
                  Locations.

     (2)   The Commission will maintain a list of Local Governments that have
           certified to the Director that they have chosen not to regulate the siting of
           Oil and Gas Locations, or receive any category of notice otherwise
           required by the Commission’s Rules. This list will be posted on the
           Commission’s website.

     (3)   A Local Government may withdraw a waiver or certification at any time by
           providing written notice to an Operator and the Director on a Form 29.
           Upon receiving such notice, the Director will immediately remove the Local
           Government from the Rule 302.f.(2) list on the Commission’s website.

g.   Local Government Consultation. Within 45 days after an Operator provides
     notice of a proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan pursuant to Rule 302.e, and
     prior to the Director making a Director’s Recommendation that the Commission
     approve or deny the Oil and Gas Development Plan, Relevant Local
     Governments or Proximate Local Governments may request, and will be
     provided, an opportunity to consult with the Operator and the Director. The
     Director or Operator will promptly schedule a Formal Consultation Process
     meeting. Nothing in this Rule 302.g precludes a Local Government from
     providing comments on a proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan or Form 2A
     during the Rule 303.d public comment period. Topics for Formal Consultation
     Process meeting will include, but not be limited to:

     (1)   The location of access roads, Production Facilities, and Wells; and

     (2)   Necessary and reasonable measures to avoid, minimize, and mitigate
           adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or
           wildlife resources.




                                                                                       75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

303. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT
PLANS

a.   Components of an Oil and Gas Development Plan Application. Prior to
     commencing Oil and Gas Operations at an Oil and Gas Location that meets the
     criteria of Rule 304.a, an Operator will have an approved Oil and Gas
     Development Plan. An Operator will submit to the Commission the following:

     (1)   An application with the Hearings Unit for a hearing on the proposed Oil
           and Gas Development Plan, pursuant to Rule 503.g.(1). If the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan includes lands to be spaced, the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan application will include an application for and request
           for hearing on the proposed Drilling and Spacing Unit(s) pursuant to Rules
           305 & 503.g.(2). For at least one portion of a mineral tract within the
           proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan, the applicant will provide
           documentation as described in Rule 305.a.(2).L, showing the applicant’s
           status as an Owner.

     (2)   A Form 2A that meets all requirements of Rule 304 for each proposed Oil
           and Gas Location.

     (3)   Payment of the full filing fee required by Rule 301.d.

     (4)   Any other relevant information that the Director determines is necessary
           and reasonable to determine whether the proposed operation meets the
           Commission’s Rules and protects and minimizes adverse impacts to
           public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. The
           Director will provide the Operator with the reason for the request in writing.

     (5)   A Form 2B, Cumulative Impacts Data Identification that meets all
           requirements of Rule 315.a, unless otherwise indicated by the
           Commission’s granting of preliminary siting approval in a Comprehensive
           Area Plan pursuant to Rule 314.e.(11).

     (6)   Permitting Coordination Notifications.

           A.     If an Operator is concurrently seeking a permit from the
                  Commission and a federal agency or a Relevant Local Government
                  for one or more locations within the proposed Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan, the Operator may engage the Director in the
                  federal agency or Relevant Local Government process. The
                  Relevant Local Government or federal agency may also request
                  that the Director engage in the Relevant Local Government process
                  or federal agency process. If the Operator, Relevant Local
                  Government, or federal agency requests the Director’s
                  engagement, the Operator will:




                                                                                      76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     Notify the Director that it is concurrently seeking a permit
                       from the Relevant Local Government or federal agency
                       permitting process on the Form 2A at the time the Operator
                       submits the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan;

                ii.    Identify any potential conflicts or differences between agency
                       standards for each of the respective permitting authorities on
                       the Form 2A; and

                iii.   Promptly notify the Director in writing of subsequent
                       milestones and events in the Local Government or federal
                       agency permitting process, including but not limited to:

                       aa.   Submission of documents;

                       bb.   On-site inspections;

                       cc.   Public comment deadlines;

                       dd.   Hearings and public meetings; or

                       ee.   Issuance of final decisions.

          B.    If an Operator has already obtained a permit from a federal agency
                or a Relevant Local Government for one or more locations within
                the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan, the Operator will
                submit the federal agency’s or Relevant Local Government’s final
                decision documents approving the siting and any related surface
                disturbance as an attachment to the Form 2A for that location.

                i.     If a Relevant Local Government has already approved the
                       siting of one or more Oil and Gas Locations proposed as
                       part of an Oil and Gas Development Plan, and the Director
                       determines that it will recommend that the Commission deny
                       the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan based on an
                       alternative location analysis process pursuant to Rule
                       304.b.(2), the Director will notify the Relevant Local
                       Government and the Operator prior to issuing a
                       Recommendation pursuant to Rule 306.

                ii.    For a proposed Oil and Gas Location on federal surface or
                       mineral estate for which the relevant federal agency has
                       already approved one or more Application(s) for Permit to
                       Drill, the Operator will submit any environmental analysis or
                       analyses conducted for the Application(s) for Permit to Drill
                       pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act.




                                                                                   77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (7)   A certification that all components of the Oil and Gas Development Plan
           have been submitted. The Operator will submit a Form 2C, Oil and Gas
           Development Plan Certification, to certify the submission of all
           components of the Oil and Gas Development Plan, and to identify all
           components of the application.

     (8)   If an Operator proposes multiple Oil and Gas Locations, and the Director
           determines that the number of proposed locations, geographic scope, or
           high number of adjacent or nearby Oil and Gas Development Plans
           submitted by the same Operator would be more appropriately considered
           as a CAP, the Director may request a meeting with the Operator to
           evaluate whether the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan(s) should
           be re-submitted as a CAP application pursuant to Rule 314.

b.   Completeness Determination. After the Operator certifies pursuant to Rule
     303.a.(7) that all required components of the Oil and Gas Development Plan
     have been submitted, the Director will use best efforts to review the application
     materials within 30 days to determine if they are complete.

     (1)   If the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan is complete, the Director
           will approve the Form 2C and issue a completeness determination to the
           Operator via electronic mail.

     (2)   A completeness determination does not constitute approval or denial of an
           Oil and Gas Development Plan, nor does it convey any rights to conduct
           any surface-disturbing activities.

     (3)   At any time, before or after the Director makes a completeness
           determination, the Director or the Commission may request any relevant
           information necessary and reasonable to make a final determination of
           approval or denial on an Oil and Gas Development Plan. The Operator will
           provide any requested information before the Commission makes a final
           decision to approve or deny the Oil and Gas Development Plan. The
           Director will provide the Operator with the reason for the request in writing.

     (4)   If the Director determines that an application is incomplete, the Director
           will notify the Operator in writing of any such inadequacies. The Operator
           will have 90 days from the date that it was contacted to correct or provide
           requested information, otherwise the Director will deny the Form 2C, and
           all components of the application will be considered withdrawn and the Oil
           and Gas Development Plan filing fee will not be refunded.

     (5)   The Director will submit the completeness determination to the Hearings
           Unit, where it will be part of the record before the Commission on the Oil
           and Gas Development Plan application.

c.   Revisions to an Oil and Gas Development Plan Application.




                                                                                         78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   At any time prior to the Director making a completeness determination, the
           Operator may request changes to its Oil and Gas Development Plan or
           provide additional or different information by contacting the Director.

     (2)   After the Director makes a completeness determination, the Operator may
           only make material changes to its Oil and Gas Development Plan
           application with the Director’s approval, which may require re-noticing the
           application pursuant to Rules 303.e and 503.g.(1), and reopening the
           public review and consultation period pursuant to Rule 303.d.

d.   Public Review and Consultation.

     (1)   Public Comment Period. When the Director makes a completeness
           determination by approving a Form 2C, the Oil and Gas Development
           Plan application components, exemptions granted pursuant to Rule 304.d,
           and supporting materials will be posted to the Commission’s website. The
           website posting will provide:

           A.    The date by which public comments must be received to be
                 considered, which is:

                 i.     60 days from the date the Oil and Gas Development Plan
                        was posted to the Commission website, if the Oil and Gas
                        Development Plan includes any proposed Oil and Gas
                        Locations with a Working Pad Surface within 4,000 feet of a
                        Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                        School Facility, or Child Care Center within a
                        Disproportionately Impacted Community;

                 ii.    45 days from the date the Oil and Gas Development Plan
                        was posted to the Commission website if the Oil and Gas
                        Development Plan includes any proposed Oil and Gas
                        Locations:

                        aa.    With a Working Pad Surface within 1/2 mile of a
                               Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building
                               Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center that is not
                               within a Disproportionately Impacted Community; or

                        bb.    Within a Disproportionately Impacted Community; and

                 iii.   30 days from the date the Oil and Gas Development Plan
                        was posted for all other Oil and Gas Development Plans.

           B.    The mechanism for the public to provide comments.




                                                                                     79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Notification for Consultation. At the same time the Director posts
           materials to the Commission’s website pursuant to Rule 303.d.(1), the
           Director will provide electronic notice of such posting to:

           A.    The Relevant Local Government(s);

           B.    All Proximate Local Government(s);

           C.    CPW;

           D.    CDPHE, if consultation will occur pursuant to Rule 309.f; and

           E.    Public Water System administrators, if consultation will occur
                 pursuant to Rule 309.g.

     (3)   Confidentiality. If the Operator designates any portion of its Oil and Gas
           Development Plan application as “confidential” pursuant to Rule 223, then
           the Director will post only the redacted version when the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan application is posted.

e.   Notice.

     (1)   Who Receives Notice. The Operator will provide notice of the
           completeness determination within 7 days to:

           A.    All Owners of minerals to be developed by the Oil and Gas
                 Development Plan except that no notice is required for minerals
                 already subject to a federal Unit Agreement pursuant to 43 C.F.R. §
                 3180.

           B.    All Surface Owners, Building Unit and High Occupancy Building
                 Unit owners and tenants, and residents, including tenants of both
                 residential and commercial properties, within 1/2 mile of any
                 Working Pad Surface included in the Oil and Gas Development
                 Plan, or within 1 mile of any Working Pad Surface included in the
                 Oil and Gas Development Plan if the Building Unit is within a
                 Disproportionately Impacted Community. Notice to tenants may be
                 accomplished by sending the notice to the residences addressed to
                 “Current Resident.”

           C.    The Colorado State Land Board (if a mineral owner).

           D.    The U.S. Bureau of Land Management (if any federal entity is
                 mineral owner).

           E.    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe (for applications involving minerals
                 within the exterior boundary of the Tribe’s reservation that are
                 subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction pursuant to Rule 201.d.(2)).



                                                                                   80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.    All Schools, Child Care Centers, and School Governing Bodies
                 pursuant to Rule 309.d.

           G.    Police, fire departments, emergency service agencies, and first
                 responder agencies responsible for ensuring public safety in all
                 areas within 2,000 feet of any Working Pad Surface included in the
                 Oil and Gas Development Plan.

           H.    The administrator of any Public Water System that operates:

                 i.     A surface water Public Water System intake that is 15
                        stream miles or less downstream from the proposed Working
                        Pad Surface;

                 ii.    A groundwater under the direct influence of surface water
                        (“GUDI”) Public Water System supply well within 2,640 feet
                        of the proposed Working Pad Surface; and

                 iii.   A Public Water System supply well completed in a Type III
                        Aquifer within 2,640 feet of the proposed Working Pad
                        Surface.

           I.    All attendees of the pre-application community meeting who
                 provided an electronic mail address pursuant to Rule 301.g.(2).B.iii.

     (2)   Substance of Notice. Notice provided by the Operator pursuant to this
           section will include:

           A.    An introductory letter including:

                 i.     The Operator’s contact information including its electronic
                        mail address, phone number, and physical address(es) to
                        which the public may direct questions and comments;

                 ii.    The contact information for the Relevant Local Government;

                 iii.   The Commission’s website address and main telephone
                        number;

                 iv.    The location of all proposed Oil and Gas Locations; and

                 v.     The anticipated date that each phase of operations will
                        commence (by month and year).

           B.    A description of the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan,
                 including:

                 i.     How many Wells and Locations are proposed;




                                                                                      81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.    The proposed construction schedule by quarter and year;

                 iii.   A description of each operational phase of development and
                        what to expect during each phase;

                 iv.    Proposed haul routes and traffic volume associated with
                        each phase of operations; and

                 v.     A description of any variances requested pursuant to Rule
                        502.

           C.    The Commission’s information sheet about the procedural steps
                 involved with the Director’s and Commission’s review of Oil and
                 Gas Development Plans;

           D.    The Commission’s information sheet about the Commission’s
                 public comment process and the relevant deadlines;

           E.    The Commission’s information sheet about Hydraulic Fracturing
                 Treatments, unless Hydraulic Fracturing Treatments will not be
                 utilized at any Well within the proposed Oil and Gas Development
                 Plan;

           F.    Other information that the Director identifies in the completeness
                 determination as necessary to protect and minimize adverse
                 impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
                 wildlife resources;

           G.    The Commission’s information sheet about how the public may
                 view the status of the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan
                 application on the Commission’s website; and

           H.    Information on how the public may learn more details about and
                 ask questions about the Oil and Gas Development Plan prior to the
                 closure of the public comment period.

           I.    All written information provided pursuant to Rule 303.e.(2) will also
                 be provided in all languages spoken by 5% or more of the
                 population in all census block groups within 2,000 feet of each
                 proposed Oil and Gas Location within the Oil and Gas
                 Development Plan.

     (3)   Procedure for Providing Notice. Notice will be delivered by one of the
           following mechanisms:

           A.    Hand delivery, with confirmation of receipt;

           B.    Certified mail, return-receipt requested;



                                                                                      82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              C.     Electronic mail, with electronic receipt confirmation; or

              D.     By other delivery service with receipt confirmation.

f.     Publication of Comments. The Director will post public comments on the
       Commission’s website according to applicable guidance.

g.     Extension of Comment Period. The Director may extend or reopen the
       comment period for up to an additional 30 days for a proposed Oil and Gas
       Development Plan and 45 days for a proposed CAP if the Director determines an
       extension or reopening is reasonable in order to obtain public input.

h.     Drilling and Spacing Unit Applications. When an Oil and Gas Development
       Plan includes an application for a new Drilling and Spacing Unit or to amend an
       existing Drilling and Spacing Unit, the Drilling and Spacing Unit application will be
       noticed and subject to the petition process set forth in Rules 504.b.(2) & 507.

304.   FORM 2A, OIL AND GAS LOCATION ASSESSMENT APPLICATION

a.     Submitting Form 2A. Operators will submit a completed Form 2A, Oil and Gas
       Location Assessment as part of their Oil and Gas Development Plan application,
       as required by Rule 303.a.(2). Operators will submit and obtain approval of a
       Form 2A prior to:

       (1)    Surface disturbance at a site previously undisturbed by Oil and Gas
              Operations;

       (2)    Surface disturbance for purposes of expanding an existing Working Pad
              Surface or Oil and Gas Location; or

       (3)    Any significant change to the design and operation of an Oil and Gas
              Location, including but not limited to the addition of a Well or a Pit, except
              an Emergency Pit or a lined Plugging Pit. The Director will determine if a
              Form 2A is required for significant changes at an existing Oil and Gas
              Location made in response to new requirements or regulations from other
              state or federal agencies or the Relevant Local Government.

b.     Information Requirements. All Form 2As will include the following information
       except as provided in Rule 314.e.(11) for certain Form 2As associated with
       approved CAPs .

       (1)    Local Government Siting Information. The Operator will comply with the
              certification requirements of Rule 302.b.

       (2)    Alternative Location and Cumulative Impacts Analyses.

              A.     Applicability.




                                                                                          83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     That meets any of the criteria listed in Rule 304.b.(2).B,
                       unless the Director determines in the completeness
                       determination that an alternative location analysis is not
                       necessary to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public
                       health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife
                       resources. The Director may not waive the alternative
                       location analysis requirement for any Oil and Gas Location
                       that meets the criteria listed in Rule 304.b.(2).B.i–iii.

                ii.    For any proposed Oil and Gas Location not subject to Rule
                       304.b.(2):

                       aa.   The Operator will provide information, including a
                             map, demonstrating that the Oil and Gas Location
                             does not meet any of the criteria in Rule 304.b.(2).B;
                             and

                       bb.   The Director may require additional information,
                             including an alternative location analysis, where
                             necessary and reasonable to evaluate whether the
                             proposed Oil and Gas Location complies with the
                             Commission’s Rules and the Act.

                iii.   Within the exterior boundaries of the Southern Ute Indian
                       Reservation and subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction
                       pursuant to Rule 201.d.(2), if the Southern Ute Indian Tribe
                       objects to the proposed Oil and Gas Location, or requests an
                       alternative location analysis.

          B.    Alternative Location Analysis Criteria. An Operator will perform
                an alternative location analysis if:

                i.     The proposed Working Pad Surface is within 1/2 mile of 1 or
                       more Residential Building Units or High Occupancy Building
                       Units;

                ii.    The proposed Working Pad Surface is less than 1/2 mile
                       from a School Facility or Child Care Center;

                iii.   The proposed Working Pad Surface is within 1,500 feet of a
                       Designated Outside Activity Area;

                iv.    The proposed Working Pad Surface is less than 2,000 feet
                       of a municipal or county boundary, and the Proximate Local
                       Government objects to the location or requests an
                       alternative location analysis;

                v.     The proposed Working Pad Surface is within a Floodplain;



                                                                                  84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                vi.     Unless waived by the applicable Public Water System(s), the
                        proposed Oil and Gas Location is within:

                        aa.   A surface water supply area as defined in Rule
                              411.a.(1); or

                        bb.   Within 2,640 feet of a Public Water System supply
                              well that is completed in a Type III Aquifer or is a
                              groundwater under the direct influence of surface
                              water well as defined in Rule 411.b.(1);

                vii.    The proposed Oil and Gas Location is within the boundaries
                        of, or is immediately upgradient from, a mapped, visible, or
                        field-verified wetland or riparian corridor;

                viii.   The proposed Oil and Gas Location is within High Priority
                        Habitat and the Operator did not obtain a waiver from CPW
                        through a pre-application consultation;

                ix.     The Operator is using or intends to use a Surface Owner
                        protection bond pursuant to Rule 704 to access the
                        proposed Oil and Gas Location; or

                x.      The proposed Working Pad Surface is within 1 mile of a
                        Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                        School Facility, or Child Care Center located within a
                        Disproportionately Impacted Community.

          C.    Contents of an Alternative Location Analysis. If an alternative
                location analysis is required, the Operator will prepare a narrative
                analysis that identifies all potential alternate locations from which
                the targeted minerals can be accessed that may be considered for
                siting of the Oil and Gas Location. Operators will also submit the
                following information:

                i.      One or more maps or recent aerial images showing:

                        aa.   The proposed area of mineral development;

                        bb.   The Operator’s proposed Oil and Gas Location;

                        cc.   All technically feasible alternative locations;

                        dd.   All proximal existing and permitted Oil and Gas
                              Locations;

                        ee.    All relevant jurisdictional boundaries;




                                                                                     85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       ff.   All Disproportionately Impacted Communities within
                             2,000 feet of each Oil and Gas Location analyzed in
                             the alternative location analysis pursuant to this Rule
                             304.b.(2);

                       gg.   Any major transportation corridors, including but not
                             limited to an interstate or State highway or railroad,
                             within 2,000 feet of each Oil and Gas Location
                             analyzed in the alternative location analysis pursuant
                             to this Rule 304.b.(2);

                       hh.   Any High Priority Habitat within 2,000 feet of each Oil
                             and Gas Location analyzed in the alternative location
                             analysis pursuant to this Rule 304.b.(2);

                       ii.   A reference coordinate (latitude/longitude); and

                       jj.   All Rule 304.b.(2).B criteria met by the proposed
                             location and any alternative location(s) shown.

                ii.    For each alternative location evaluated, a table showing all
                       information required by Rules 304.b.(3).A & B.

                iii.   A data table for the proposed Oil and Gas Location and each
                       alternative location, with all measurements made from each
                       proposed Working Pad Surface, that lists the following
                       information:

                       aa.   All Rule 304.b.(2).B criteria met.

                       bb.   For proposed Oil and Gas Locations with a Working
                             Pad Surface within or within 1 mile of a
                             Disproportionately Impacted Community:

                             1.     The distance to the nearest Residential
                                    Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                                    School Facility, or Child Care Center;

                             2.     A description of the community outreach efforts
                                    conducted by the Operator prior to preparing
                                    the alternative location analysis, including
                                    whether the Operator made information
                                    available in languages other than English
                                    based on the linguistic needs of the
                                    community, questions and Operator responses
                                    to questions from residents of the
                                    Disproportionately Impacted Community, and
                                    any public meetings conducted (including



                                                                                   86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                                    location, time of day, and whether interpreters
                                    were requested and provided) with residents of
                                    the Disproportionately Impacted Community;

                             3.     The number and description of existing Oil and
                                    Gas Locations, Oil and Gas Facilities, and
                                    Wells also within 2,000 feet of any Residential
                                    Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                                    School Facility, or Child Care Center within
                                    2,000 feet of any proposed Oil and Gas
                                    Location analyzed in the alternative location
                                    analysis.

                      cc.    Distance to any municipal or county boundaries that
                             are within 2,000 feet, and the names of the Proximate
                             Local Government(s).

                      dd.    Relevant Local Government Information. For each
                             alternative location analyzed, the:

                             1.     Name of the Relevant Local Government;

                             2.     The Relevant Local Government’s land use or
                                    zoning designation;

                             3.     The Relevant Local Government’s permitting
                                    process; and

                             4.     The status of each Relevant Local
                                    Government’s permit process, if applicable.

                      ee.    Current land use, and plans for future land use at and
                             proximal to each identified location.

                      ff.    Distance to nearest wetland, surface water, surface
                             water supply area as defined in Rule 411.a.(1), or
                             Public Water System supply well that is completed in
                             a Type III Aquifer or is a groundwater under the direct
                             influence of surface water well as defined in Rule
                             411.b.(1).

                      gg.    Distance to nearest High Priority Habitat.

                      hh.    Anticipated method of right-to-construct and surface
                             ownership.

          D.    The Director may request that the Operator provide any additional
                information or analyze additional locations for the Oil and Gas



                                                                                  87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 Location if the Director believes that additional analysis or
                 information is necessary for the Director’s and Commission’s
                 review of the public health, safety, welfare, environmental, and
                 wildlife impacts of the locations the Operator analyzes.

           E.    Cumulative Impacts Analysis. An Operator will perform a
                 Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant to Rule 315.b for its
                 proposed Oil and Gas Location. The Operator will prepare a
                 narrative explaining how the proposed Oil and Gas Location, as
                 compared to each alternative location analyzed in the alternative
                 location analysis pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2), best avoids,
                 minimizes, and mitigates any adverse Cumulative Impacts
                 associated with the proposed Oil and Gas Operations.

     (3)   Cultural Distances.

           A.    A table showing the distance and approximate bearing from the
                 edge of the Working Pad Surface of the proposed or existing Oil
                 and Gas Location to the edge or corner of the nearest building,
                 Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, and
                 School Facility; the nearest boundary of a Designated Outside
                 Activity Area; the nearest Residential Building Unit, High
                 Occupancy Building Unit, or School Facility within a
                 Disproportionately Impacted Community within 2,000 feet of the
                 proposed Working Pad Surface; the boundary of the nearest
                 Disproportionately Impacted Community; and the nearest public
                 road, above ground utility, railroad, and property line.

           B.    A table showing the number of Building Units, Residential Building
                 Units, High Occupancy Building Units, School properties, School
                 Facilities, and Designated Outdoor Activity Areas within the
                 following radii of the Working Pad Surface:

                 i.     0–500 feet;

                 ii.    501–1,000 feet; and

                 iii.   1,001–2,000 feet.

           C.    A current aerial image depicting the information in the tables in
                 Rules 304.b.(3).A & B.

     (4)   Location Pictures. The Operator will attach to the Form 2A photographs
           as described in this Rule 304.b.(4). The photographs will depict the staked
           location and its surroundings. Each photograph will be identified by date
           taken, Well or location name, and direction of view. The field of view of
           each photograph will be shown on a current aerial image, also attached.
           Operators will provide location photographs in sufficiently high resolution



                                                                                     88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           so that details of current surrounding land use may be readily discerned.
           Operators will attach one of the following photograph options:

           A.     A minimum of 4 color photographs showing the staked location and
                  its surroundings from each cardinal direction, with no significant
                  gaps between fields of view;

           B.     A minimum of 2 panoramic photographs of the location and its
                  surroundings covering a full 360° around the location; or

           C.     Photographs of the locations and its surroundings taken from an
                  unmanned aerial vehicle.

     (5)   Site Equipment List. A list of major equipment components to be used in
           conjunction with drilling and operating the Well(s), including but not limited
           to, all Tanks, Pits, flares, combustion equipment, separators, and other
           ancillary equipment.

     (6)   Flowline Descriptions. A description of the proposed location, size, and
           material of any Flowlines, including Off-Location Flowlines.

     (7)   Drawings. Operators will provide the drawings, maps, and figures
           required below in a suitable size, scale, and electronic format for the
           Director to conduct a review. If multiple drawings are required to convey
           the required information, then the Operator will provide them in a logical
           manner. All drawings, maps, and figures will include a scale bar and north
           arrow, the Operator’s name, the site name, and other information as
           necessary to identify the attachment as part of the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan. Aerial imagery used for base maps will be current.

           A.     Location Drawings. A scaled drawing and scaled aerial
                  photograph showing the approximate outline of the Oil and Gas
                  Location and Working Pad Surface and all visible improvements
                  within 2,000 feet of the proposed Oil and Gas Location (as
                  measured from the proposed edge of the Working Pad Surface),
                  with a horizontal distance and approximate bearing from the
                  Working Pad Surface. If there are no visible improvements within
                  2,000 feet of a proposed Oil and Gas Location, the Operator will
                  specify this on the Form 2A. Visible improvements will include, but
                  not be limited to:

                  i.     All buildings and Building Units, with High Occupancy
                         Building Units identified;

                  ii.    Publicly maintained roads and trails, including their names;

                  iii.   Fences;




                                                                                      89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iv.     Above-ground utility lines;

                v.      Railroads;

                vi.     Pipelines or Pipeline markers;

                vii.    Mines;

                viii.   Oil and gas Wells and associated Production Facilities;

                ix.     Injection Wells and associated facilities;

                x.      Plugged oil and gas Wells, including dry holes;

                xi.     Known water wells;

                xii.    Known sewers with manholes; and

                xiii.   Any Industrial Facility.

          B.    Layout Drawings. Location construction and operations layout
                drawings, location construction, and operations cross-section plots
                including location and finish grades and operations facility layout
                drawings. These drawings will include, as applicable to the
                proposed Oil and Gas Location:

                i.      The Working Pad Surface and surrounding disturbed area
                        making up the entirety of the Oil and Gas Location;

                ii.     A preliminary drill rig layout;

                iii.    Preliminary Well completion and Stimulation layout;

                iv.     If a Well is proposed to be hydraulically fractured, a
                        preliminary layout drawing of the Flowback equipment,
                        including the equipment and connections to comply with
                        reduced emission completion requirements pursuant to Rule
                        903.c.(1); and

                v.      The location of all existing and proposed Oil and Gas
                        Facilities listed on the Form 2A.

          C.    Wildlife Habitat Drawing. A drawing, map, or aerial image
                depicting High Priority Habitat within 1 mile of the Working Pad
                Surface.

          D.    Preliminary Process Flow Diagrams. Process flow diagrams
                depicting:




                                                                                   90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     Flowback operations; and

                ii.    Oil and gas production operations.

          E.    Hydrology Map. A topographic map showing the horizontal
                distance and approximate bearing from the Oil and Gas Location
                to:

                i.     All surface Waters of the State within 2,640 feet of the
                       proposed Working Pad Surface. The map will indicate which
                       surface water features are downgradient;

                ii.    All Water Sources within 2,640 feet of the proposed Working
                       Pad Surface;

                iii.   Any Public Water System facilities, including intakes, wells,
                       storage facilities, recharge areas, and treatments plants
                       within 2,640 feet of the Working Pad Surface;

                iv.    Rule 411 buffer zones within 2,640 feet of the Working Pad
                       Surface; and

                v.     Any surface waters within 2,640 feet of the Working Pad
                       Surface that are 15 stream miles upstream of a Public Water
                       System intake.

          F.    Access Road Map. A U.S. Geological Survey topographic map, or
                scaled aerial photograph showing the access route from the
                nearest publicly maintained road to the proposed Oil and Gas
                Location, and identifying any new access roads constructed as part
                of the Oil and Gas Development Plan. The map will clearly identify
                any Residential Building Units within 2,000 feet of the access road
                for this Oil and Gas Location.

          G.    Related Location and Flowline Map. A U.S. Geological Survey
                topographic map, or scaled aerial photograph showing:

                i.     All existing, approved, and proposed Oil and Gas Locations
                       within 2,000 feet of the area affected by the proposed Oil
                       and Gas Development Plan;

                ii.    All proposed Flowline corridors, including Off-Location
                       Flowline corridors, to or from the proposed Oil and Gas
                       Location and to or from associated Oil and Gas Facilities.

          H.    Directional Well Plat. If the proposed Oil and Gas Location
                includes one or more directional Wells, a map showing the surface




                                                                                    91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 hole location and the proposed wellbore trajectory with the top of
                 the productive zone and bottom-hole location for each Well.

           I.    Geologic Hazard Map. A map identifying any Geologic Hazards
                 within a 1 mile radius of the proposed Working Pad Surface. For
                 any identified Geologic Hazard that extends beyond the 1 mile
                 radius, a second map scaled to show the extent of that hazard in
                 relation to the proposed Oil and Gas Location.

           J.    Disproportionately Impacted Communities Map. If the proposed
                 Oil and Gas Location is located within 1 mile of a Residential
                 Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or
                 Child Care Center within a Disproportionately Impacted
                 Community, a map or aerial photo showing the spatial relationship
                 between the proposed Oil and Gas Location and the boundaries of
                 the Disproportionately Impacted Communities. The map will also
                 identify and contain:

                 i.     The distance and direction to all Residential Building Units,
                        High Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, and Child
                        Care Centers within the Disproportionately Impacted
                        Community that are also within 2,000 feet of the proposed
                        Oil and Gas Location; and

                 ii.    A table listing the number of Residential Building Units, High
                        Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, and Child Care
                        Centers in the Disproportionately Impacted Community that
                        are between 2,000 feet and 1 mile from the Oil and Gas
                        Location.

     (8)   Geographic Information System (“GIS”) Data. GIS polygon data to
           describe the boundaries of the entire proposed Oil and Gas Location and
           the Working Pad Surface.

     (9)   Land Use Description. A narrative description of the current land use(s),
           the Relevant Local Government’s land use or zoning designation, any
           applicable federal land use designations for proposed Oil and Gas
           Locations on federal surface estate, and the landowner’s designated final
           land use(s) for the purpose of determining Reclamation standards.

           A.    If the final land use includes residential, industrial/commercial, or
                 Crop Land and does not include any other uses, the land use
                 should be indicated and no further information is needed.

           B.    Reference Area Data. If the final land use includes rangeland,
                 forestry, recreation, or wildlife habitat, then a Reference Area will
                 be selected and documented. The Operator will also submit the
                 following information:



                                                                                         92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                   i.     Reference Area Map. A topographic map or aerial image
                          showing the location of the Reference Area with respect to
                          the proposed Oil and Gas Location including latitude and
                          longitude of Reference Area; and

                   ii.    Reference Area Pictures. 5 color photographs of the
                          Reference Area, including 4 taken from each cardinal
                          direction, and 1 taken from above the Reference Area. Each
                          photograph will be identified by date taken, Well or Oil and
                          Gas Location name, and direction of view. The photographs
                          will be taken during the peak growing season and will clearly
                          depict vegetation cover and diversity. To ensure that the
                          photographs accurately depict vegetation during peak
                          growing season, these photographs may be submitted up to
                          12 months after the Form 2A. Photographs of the Reference
                          Area may be taken from an unmanned aerial vehicle,
                          provided such aerial images are collected at a sufficient
                          resolution to provide specific vegetation information.

                   iii.   A table of the dominant vegetation within the Reference
                          Area.

     (10)   NRCS Map Unit Description. A Natural Resources Conservation Service
            (“NRCS”) soil map unit description.

     (11)   Best Management Practices. A description of any Operator-proposed,
            site specific Best Management Practices that the Operator commits to
            perform as part of the implementation of the Oil and Gas Development
            Plan, including any Best Management Practices, conditions of approval, or
            stipulations required by an approved federal permit.

     (12)   Surface Owner Information.

            A.     Contact information for the Surface Owner(s); and

            B.     A redacted version of the Surface Use Agreement or a
                   memorandum describing the Surface Use Agreement that includes
                   a description of the lands subject to the agreement, signatures of
                   the parties to the agreement, dates of signature, and any provisions
                   of the agreement that are relevant to the Form 2A.

     (13)   Proximate Local Government Information. Contact information for any
            Proximate Local Governments.

     (14)   Wetlands. If a federal, state, or local government agency requires a
            permit or sets other substantive standards for direct or indirect impacts to
            a wetland, including but not limited to the discharge of dredged or fill
            material during the construction of a proposed Oil and Gas Location,



                                                                                       93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            access roads to the Oil and Gas Location, or Pipeline corridors associated
            with the Oil and Gas Location, evidence that the Operator has complied
            with the agency’s substantive standards, sought any required permits, and
            whether the permit(s) have been issued.

     (15)   Schools and Child Care Centers. If the proposed Oil and Gas Location
            is within 2,000 feet of a School Facility, Future School Facility, or Child
            Care Center, a statement indicating whether the School Governing Body
            requested consultation.

c.   Plans. All Form 2As will include site-specific plans that demonstrate compliance
     with the Commission’s Rules for the operation of the proposed Oil and Gas
     Location in a manner that is protective of and minimizes adverse impacts to
     public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, and
     addresses incremental and Cumulative Impacts to the resources identified in the
     Operator’s Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant to Rule 315.b. Each Form 2A
     will include the following plans, unless otherwise provided in a Commission Order
     approving a CAP pursuant to Rule 314.

     (1)    Emergency Spill Response Program. For operations within 2,640 feet of
            a groundwater under the direct influence of surface water well or Type III
            Well or surface water that is 15 miles or less upstream from a Public
            Water System(s) intake, an emergency spill response program consistent
            with the requirements of Rules 411.a.(4).B, 411.b.(5).B, & 602.j.

     (2)    Noise Mitigation Plan. A noise mitigation plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 423.a.

     (3)    Light Mitigation Plan. A light mitigation plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 424.a.

     (4)    Odor Mitigation Plan. An odor mitigation plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 426.a.

     (5)    Dust Mitigation Plan. A dust mitigation plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 427.a.

     (6)    Transportation Plan. If the Relevant Local Government requires a
            transportation plan or an equivalent traffic planning document, the
            transportation plan submitted to the Relevant Local Government. If the
            Relevant Local Government does not require a transportation plan, the
            Director may request information regarding haul routes, traffic volumes,
            and Best Management Practices to avoid, minimize, and mitigate impacts
            from traffic associated with the Oil and Gas Location.

     (7)    Operations Safety Management Program. An operations safety
            management program consistent with the requirements of Rule 602.d.




                                                                                      94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (8)    Emergency Response Plan. An emergency response plan consistent
            with the requirements of Rule 602.j.

     (9)    Flood Shut-In Plan. If located in a Floodplain, a shut-in plan consistent
            with the requirements of Rule 421.b.(1).

     (10)   Hydrogen Sulfide Drilling Operations Plan. If operating in zones known
            or suspected to contain hydrogen sulfide gas (“H2S”), a H2S drilling
            operations plan consistent with the requirements of Rule 612.d.

     (11)   Waste Management Plan. A waste management plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 905.a.(4).

     (12)   Gas Capture Plan. A gas capture plan or commitment consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 903.e.

     (13)   Fluid Leak Detection Plan. A fluid leak detection plan.

     (14)   Topsoil Protection Plan. A topsoil protection plan consistent with the
            requirements of Rule 1002.c.

     (15)   Stormwater Management Plan. A stormwater management plan
            consistent with the requirements of Rule 1002.f.

     (16)   Interim Reclamation Plan. An interim reclamation plan consistent with
            the requirements of Rule 1003.

     (17)   Wildlife Plan. A Wildlife Protection Plan or Wildlife Mitigation Plan
            consistent with the requirements of Rule 1201.

     (18)   Fresh Water Plan. A plan identifying the sources of Fresh Water to be
            used for drilling and completion operations including:

            A.     The planned source and volume of all surface water, Groundwater,
                   and any other sources of Fresh Water to be used and the
                   coordinates of the planned source of Fresh Water; and

            B.     The seller’s name and address if Fresh Water is to be purchased.

     (19)   Community Outreach Plan. For Oil and Gas Locations with a Working
            Pad Surface proposed within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit, High
            Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center, or within 1
            mile of a Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit located within a
            Disproportionately Impacted Community, the Operator will submit a
            consultation, outreach, and engagement plan.

            A.     The community outreach plan will include:




                                                                                        95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  i.     A description of any measures taken to directly mitigate
                         adverse impacts to the residents, owners, or tenants of a
                         Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                         School Facility, or Child Care Center within 1/2 mile of the
                         proposed Working Pad Surface, or within 1 mile of the
                         proposed Working Pad Surface if a Building Unit or High
                         Occupancy Building Unit is located within a
                         Disproportionately Impacted Community, during pre-
                         production and production phases of operations;

                  ii.    Certification that written materials have been and will be
                         provided in all languages spoken by 5% or more of the
                         population in any census block groups within 1 mile of the
                         proposed Oil and Gas Location; and

                  iii.   A description of the Operator’s plan to facilitate ongoing and
                         transparent communication with residents, owners, or
                         tenants of:

                         aa.    A Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building
                                Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center within 1/2
                                mile of the proposed Working Pad Surface; and

                         bb.    Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit within a
                                Disproportionately Impacted Community that is
                                located within 1 mile of the Proposed Working Pad
                                Surface.

            B.    If a Working Pad Surface is proposed within 1 mile of a Building
                  Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit located within a
                  Disproportionately Impacted Community, the Operator will consult
                  with the Community Liaison while developing the community
                  outreach plan to identify local community organizations
                  representative of the potentially impacted communities. If the
                  Community Liaison identifies such local community organizations,
                  the Operator will coordinate with such organization(s) to distribute
                  necessary and relevant notice and information to the community.

     (20)   Geologic Hazard Plan. If the Operator identifies any Geologic Hazards
            pursuant to Rule 304.b.(7).I, the Operator will submit a Geologic Hazard
            plan describing proposed mitigation measures.

d.   Lesser Impact Areas. The Director may exempt an Operator from submitting
     any of the information required by Rule 304.b, except for the alternative location
     analysis and Cumulative Impacts analysis as part of Rule 304.b.(2), or any plan
     required by Rule 304.c, under the following circumstances:




                                                                                        96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   If the Operator requests an exemption from the Director based on
           evidence showing the information or plan is unnecessary because:

           A.     The impacted resource or resource concern are not present in the
                  area; or

           B.     Impacts to the resource will be so minimal as to pose no concern.

     (2)   Operators may request an exemption from the Director in writing, without
           proceeding through the ordinary Rule 502 variance process. A request for
           an exemption will be provided with the Form 2A at the time the form is
           submitted.

     (3)   The Director may grant an exemption as part of the completeness
           determination if the Director concurs with the Operator that providing the
           information or plan is unnecessary to protect and minimize adverse
           impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife
           resources.

     (4)   If the Director grants an exemption, the Commission may nevertheless
           request the information or plan subject to the exemption, or related
           information, if the Commission determines that reviewing the information
           or plan is necessary to protect and minimize adverse impacts.

     (5)   The Director may not grant an exemption for Oil and Gas Locations that
           are within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building
           Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center, or within 1 mile of a Residential
           Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
           Center within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

e.   Substantially Equivalent Information.

     (1)   The Operator may submit substantially equivalent information or plans
           developed through a Local Government land use process in lieu of
           providing information or plans required by Rules 304.b & 304.c, except for
           the Cumulative Impacts analysis as required by Rule 304.b.(2). Nothing in
           this Rule 304.e.(1) precludes the Director or Commission from requiring
           the Operator to submit information or plans otherwise required by Rules
           304.b or 304.c because the Director or Commission determines that the
           information or plans developed through the Local Government land use
           process are not equivalent.

     (2)   For proposed Oil and Gas Locations on federal surface or mineral estate
           for which an Operator has submitted environmental analysis pursuant to
           Rule 303.a.(6).B.ii, the Operator may provide references to equivalent
           information in the federal environmental analysis in lieu of providing
           information or plans required by Rules 304.b & 304.c, except for the
           Cumulative Impacts analysis required by Rule 304.b.(2). Nothing in this



                                                                                      97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             Rule 304.e.(2) precludes the Director or Commission from requiring the
             Operator to submit information or plans otherwise required by Rules 304.b
             or 304.c because the Director or Commission determines that the federal
             environmental analysis is not equivalent.

305.   APPLICATION FOR A DRILLING AND SPACING UNIT

a.     Procedural Requirements.

       (1)   Operators seeking to create a new Drilling and Spacing Unit, or to modify
             an existing Drilling and Spacing Unit, will file a Drilling and Spacing Unit
             pursuant to Rule 503.g.(2). If the proposed Drilling and Spacing Unit is
             part of an Oil and Gas Development Plan application, the Drilling and
             Spacing Unit application will be included with the hearing application for
             that Oil and Gas Development Plan.

       (2)   All Drilling and Spacing Unit applications will include the following
             information:

             A.     Certification that the Operator has complied with the Local
                    Government siting disposition requirements of Rule 302.b.

             B.     Certification that the operations in the Drilling and Spacing Unit will
                    be conducted in a reasonable manner to protect and minimize
                    adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                    and wildlife resources.

             C.     The unit boundary and interwell completion setback distances.

             D.     All existing Oil and Gas Locations and associated Wells that are
                    developing the same formation in the application lands. The
                    application will discuss what the Operator intends to do with the
                    existing Oil and Gas Locations and Wells.

             E.     The wellbore orientation for all horizontal Wells in the proposed
                    unit.

             F.     Whether there are existing units and Wells within the proposed
                    application lands and what the disposition of those existing units
                    and Wells in those existing units will be under the proposed
                    application.

             G.     The Oil and Gas Locations that are proposed for the unit. If an
                    Operator has applied for a Form 2A, the Operator will identify its
                    document number. If the Form 2A has already been approved, the
                    Operator will identify its Location ID number.

             H.     The total number of proposed Wells for the unit.



                                                                                         98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           I.     Any additional information as may be required to support the
                  requested prayer for relief.

           J.     All prior orders that implicate the prayer for relief.

           K.     Certification that satisfies the requirements of Rule 505.a.

           L.     For at least one portion of a mineral tract within the proposed unit,
                  documentation showing the applicant’s status as an Owner within
                  the unit. Acceptable forms of documentation include, but are not
                  limited to:

                  i.     Mineral deed or memorandum;

                  ii.    Mineral lease or memorandum; or

                  iii.   Any other agreement confirming the applicant’s right to drill
                         into and produce from a Pool, or a memorandum of such
                         agreement.

           M.     For federal minerals, certification that the Operator will comply with
                  any applicable federal unit agreement or communitization
                  agreement requirements.

b.   Standards for Approval. In determining whether to recommend that the
     Commission approve or deny a proposed Drilling and Spacing Unit, the Director
     will consider whether the proposed Drilling and Spacing Unit:

     (1)   Protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare,
           the environment, and wildlife resources;

     (2)   Prevents waste of oil and gas resources;

     (3)   Avoids the drilling of unnecessary Wells; and

     (4)   Protects correlative rights.

306. DIRECTOR’S RECOMMENDATION ON THE OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT
PLAN

a.   When the Director May Issue a Recommendation. The Director will not make
     a Recommendation to the Commission about whether to approve or deny any Oil
     and Gas Development Plan until:

     (1)   The Director has fully reviewed the Oil and Gas Development Plan and all
           supporting application materials and has obtained all information
           necessary to evaluate the proposed operation and its potential impacts on
           public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources;




                                                                                      99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   The Director has reviewed and commented on the Drilling and Spacing
           Unit application, if submitted with the Oil and Gas Development Plan;

     (3)   The public comment period has ended and the Director has considered all
           substantive public comments received, including comments from the
           Relevant Local Government(s) or Proximate Local Government(s);

     (4)   If applicable, CPW, CDPHE, and Public Water System consultations have
           been completed and submitted to the Director; and

     (5)   The Director determines that the Operator has provided adequate
           Financial Assurance as required by the Commission’s 700 Series Rules
           for both the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan and all existing
           facilities owned by the Operator, and that the Operator is in compliance
           with the Annual Registration and fee requirements for the current year
           pursuant to Rule 205.c.

b.   Director’s Recommendation.

     (1)   Approval. The Director may Recommend that the Commission approve
           an Oil and Gas Development Plan that:

           A.    Complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules; and

           B.    In the Director’s judgment, protects and minimizes adverse impacts
                 to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
                 resources, and shows that the Operator has demonstrated an
                 ability to comply with its NOx Intensity and Greenhouse Gas
                 Intensity Targets, where applicable.

     (2)   Conditions of Approval.

           A.    The Director may Recommend that the Commission add conditions
                 to the approval that are necessary and reasonable to protect and
                 minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
                 environment, and wildlife resources.

           B.    Conditions of Approval Specific to NOx and Greenhouse Gas
                 Intensity Targets.

                 i.     NOx Intensity Target.

                        aa.    For Operators subject to the NOx Intensity Target, the
                               Director may Recommend the Commission add
                               conditions of approval that are based on the
                               Operator’s demonstration of its ability to comply with
                               its NOx Intensity Target.




                                                                                  100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         bb.    For Operators not subject to the NOx Intensity Target
                                for the preceding May 1 through September 30
                                period, the Director may Recommend the
                                Commission add a condition of approval that the
                                Operator will either remain exempt from or comply
                                with the associated NOx Intensity Target pursuant to
                                AQCC Regulation No. 7, as incorporated in Rule
                                301.h.

                  ii.    Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets. For Operators who are
                         new to market pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7, as
                         incorporated in Rule 301.h, the Director may Recommend
                         the Commission add conditions of approval that the Operator
                         meet its Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets as demonstrated
                         in its next annual report pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7,
                         Part B.V.B.

           C.     For any proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan that includes
                  proposed Oil and Gas Locations that have already been approved
                  by the federal agency or agencies, the Director will consider
                  environmental analyses and federal stipulations and conditions of
                  approval before Recommending any additional conditions of
                  approval.

     (3)   Denial. If the Director determines that an application does not provide
           necessary and reasonable protections for, or minimize adverse impacts to,
           public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, or
           the Operator has not demonstrated an ability to comply with its NOx
           Intensity or Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets, where applicable, or fails
           to meet the requirements of the Commission’s Rules, the Director may
           Recommend that the Commission deny the Oil and Gas Development
           Plan.

c.   Notice of Recommended Decision. Upon making a Recommendation that the
     Commission approve or deny an Oil and Gas Development Plan, the Director will
     post the written basis for the Director’s Recommendation on the Commission’s
     website, file its Recommendation with the Hearings Unit, and notify the following
     persons electronically in a manner determined by the Director:

     (1)   The Surface Owner(s) whose contact information was provided pursuant
           to Rule 304.b.(12).A;

     (2)   The Operator;

     (3)   The Relevant Local Government(s);

     (4)   All Proximate Local Governments;




                                                                                  101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (5)    CDPHE, if consultation occurred subject to Rule 309.f;

     (6)    CPW, if consultation occurred subject to Rule 309.e;

     (7)    Public Water System(s), if consultation occurred pursuant to Rule 309.g;

     (8)    The Colorado State Land Board (if a mineral owner);

     (9)    The appropriate federal agency (if any federal entity is mineral owner);

     (10)   Any person or entity that has provided a comment electronically pursuant
            to Rule 303.d.(1); and

     (11)   Any person or entity that provided an electronic mail address to the
            Director and requested to be notified about the proposed Oil and Gas
            Operations during a pre-application community meeting pursuant to Rule
            301.g or post-completeness community meeting pursuant to Rule 309.c.

d.   Timing of Notice of Recommended Decision.

     (1)    The Director’s Recommended Decision will be noticed pursuant to Rule
            306.c at least 14 days prior to the hearing on the Oil and Gas
            Development Plan application, including Oil and Gas Development Plans
            within an approved CAP.

     (2)    Exception. If, as set forth in Rule 604.b.(2), an Oil and Gas Development
            Plan includes an Oil and Gas Location that is within an approved CAP that
            includes preliminary siting approval pursuant to Rule 314.b.(4) or within an
            approved Comprehensive Drilling Plan, Director’s Recommended
            Decision will be noticed pursuant to Rule 306.c at least 30 days prior to
            the hearing on the Oil and Gas Development Plan application.

e.   If the Director does not issue a Recommendation within 120 days of a
     completeness determination, the Operator may move for a hearing before the
     Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer. At such hearing, the
     Director will provide an explanation of the status of the Director’s review of the Oil
     and Gas Development Plan and any reasons for delay. For an Oil and Gas
     Development Plan within an approved CAP, the Operator may move for a
     hearing if the Director does not issue a Recommendation within 90 days of a
     completeness determination.

307. COMMISSION CONSIDERATION OF THE OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT
PLAN

a.   Director’s Recommendation. Upon receipt of the Director’s Recommendation
     on an Oil and Gas Development Plan, it will be considered by the Commission
     pursuant to Rule 510, and Rules 508 & 509, as appropriate. The Commission will
     consider whether to delegate consideration of an Oil and Gas Development Plan



                                                                                       102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     to an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer, except that the Commission
     will not delegate:

     (1)   The Director’s Recommendation of denial to an Administrative Law Judge
           or Hearing Officer; or

     (2)   Consideration of an Oil and Gas Development Plan that the Director
           Recommends approving, but includes one or more proposed Oil and Gas
           Locations that have been denied by a Relevant Local Government.

b.   Commission’s Consideration of Director’s Recommendation.

     (1)   Approval. The Commission may approve an Oil and Gas Development
           Plan that complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules, and
           protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare,
           the environment, and wildlife resources, including that the Operator has
           demonstrated its ability to comply with its NOx Intensity or Greenhouse
           Gas Intensity Targets, where applicable. The Commission may add any
           conditions to the approval of an Oil and Gas Development Plan that it
           determines are necessary and reasonable to ensure compliance with all
           requirements of the Commission’s Rules or to protect and minimize
           adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
           wildlife resources.

     (2)   Denial. If the Commission determines that an Oil and Gas Development
           Plan does not provide necessary and reasonable protections for, or
           minimize adverse impacts to, public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources, including that the Operator has not
           demonstrated an ability to comply with its NOx Intensity and Greenhouse
           Gas Intensity Targets, where applicable, or fails to meet the requirements
           of the Commission’s Rules, the Commission may deny the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan. The Commission will identify in the record the basis for
           the denial.

     (3)   Stay. If the Commission determines that additional information or analysis,
           including an alternative location analysis or an analysis of additional
           locations if an alternative location analysis was already conducted, is
           necessary for it to make a decision to approve or deny an Oil and Gas
           Development Plan, it may stay consideration of the Oil and Gas
           Development Plan for further consideration until the Director or Operator
           can provide the Commission with the additional information or analysis
           necessary to consider the Oil and Gas Development Plan. The
           Commission may set or extend reasonable deadlines for the Director or
           Operator to provide the additional information or analysis to the
           Commission.




                                                                                  103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Final Agency Action. The Commission’s decision to approve or deny an Oil and
     Gas Development Plan will constitute final agency action. The Commission’s
     decision to stay an Oil and Gas Development Plan for further consideration will
     not constitute final agency action.

308. FORM 2, APPLICATION TO DRILL, DEEPEN, RE-ENTER, OR RECOMPLETE,
AND OPERATE

a.   Submitting Form 2.

     (1)   An Operator may submit a Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill, if:

           A.     The Director recommends approval of the Operator’s Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan; or

           B.     The Operator’s Form 2A and Drilling and Spacing Unit, where
                  applicable, are approved and the Oil and Gas Location is in
                  compliance with Rule 1003.

     (2)   The Operator will obtain the Director’s approval of a complete Form 2
           before taking any of the actions listed in Rules 308.a.(1).A-G below. The
           Form 2 will detail the Operator’s plans to:

           A.     Drill any Well;

           B.     Re-enter, complete, and operate any plugged Well (except for re-
                  entry to re-plug will require a Form 6, Notice of Intent to Abandon
                  pursuant to Rule 434);

           C.     Convert a Stratigraphic Well into a production Well;

           D.     Drill a sidetrack from any Well that requires re-occupation;

           E.     Deepen any existing Well;

           F.     Recomplete and operate any existing Well; or

           G.     Drill a sidetrack from any Well while actively drilling (i.e., no re-
                  occupation required).

     (3)   Notice to Relevant and Proximate Local Governments. An Operator
           will notify any Relevant and Proximate Local Governments in writing when
           it submits a Form 2 not subject to an Oil and Gas Development Plan at the
           same time the Operator submits such Form 2.

b.   Information Requirements. All Form 2s require the following information.




                                                                                          104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Every Form 2 will specify the distance between the Well and wall or corner
           of the nearest building, Building Unit, public road, above ground utility,
           railroad, and property line.

     (2)   Wellbore Diagram. A Form 2 to deepen, to re-enter, to recomplete to a
           different reservoir, or to drill a sidetrack of an existing Well will have a
           wellbore diagram attached.

     (3)   A Form 2 to deepen, to re-enter, to recomplete to a different reservoir, or
           to drill a sidetrack of an existing Well will include the details of the
           proposed work.

     (4)   Well Location Plat. A Form 2 to drill a new Well or a new wellbore will
           have a well location plat attached. The plat will be a current scaled
           drawing(s) of the entire section(s) penetrated by the proposed Well with
           the following minimum information:

           A.     Dimensions on adjacent exterior section lines sufficient to
                  completely describe the quarter section(s) containing the proposed
                  Well surface location, top of productive zone, wellbore, and bottom
                  hole location will be indicated. If dimensions are not field measured,
                  the plat will state how the dimensions were determined.

           B.     For irregular, partial, or truncated sections, dimensions will be
                  furnished to completely describe the entire section(s) containing the
                  proposed Well.

           C.     The field-measured distances from the nearer north/south and
                  nearer east/west section lines will be measured at 90 degrees from
                  said section lines to the Well surface location and referenced on the
                  plat. For unsurveyed land grants and other areas where an official
                  public land survey system does not exist, the Well locations will be
                  spotted as footages on a protracted section plat using Global
                  Positioning System (“GPS”) technology and reported as latitude
                  and longitude pursuant to Rule 216.

           D.     The latitude and longitude of the proposed surface location will be
                  provided on the drawing with a minimum of 5 decimal places of
                  accuracy and precision using the North American Datum (“NAD”) of
                  1983 (e.g., latitude 37.12345 N, longitude 104.45632 W). If GPS
                  technology is utilized to determine the latitude and longitude, all
                  GPS data will meet the requirements set forth in Rule 216.

           E.     The Well location plat will include the proposed top of the
                  productive zone and the bottom hole location. The plat will be in a
                  suitable size and scale for the Director to conduct a review. If the
                  wellbore penetrates multiple sections, the Well location plat will
                  depict every section penetrated by the wellbore.



                                                                                      105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.     A map legend.

           G.     A north arrow.

           H.     A bar scale.

           I.     The ground elevation.

           J.     The basis of the elevation (how it was calculated or its source).

           K.     The basis of bearing or interior angles used.

           L.     Complete description of monuments and collateral evidence found;
                  all aliquot corners used will be described.

           M.     The legal land description by section, township, range, principal
                  meridian, baseline, and county.

           N.     Operator name.

           O.     Well name and Well number.

           P.     Date of completion of scaled drawing.

     (5)   Deviated Drilling Plan. A Form 2 to drill a deviated (directional, highly
           deviated, or horizontal) wellbore utilizing controlled directional drilling
           methods will have the deviated drilling plan attached. The deviated drilling
           plan will meet the requirements set forth in Rule 410.a.

     (6)   Casing and Cementing Plan. A Form 2 to drill a Well will include a
           casing and cementing plan that addresses anticipated Groundwater by
           demonstrating how it will be isolated, potential flow and hydrocarbon
           bearing zones, and subsurface hazards. The casing and cementing plan
           will describe the top and bottom depths and the concentration of total
           dissolved solids (“TDS”) in milligrams per liter of all Groundwater from the
           surface to the depth of the bottom hole, and demonstrate compliance with
           the casing and cementing requirements of Rule 408.e. To identify top and
           bottom depths and TDS concentrations of Groundwater, the Operator will
           use all available sources of pertinent information, including but not limited
           to reports from the Water Quality Control Commission, the Division of
           Water Resources, the Colorado Geological Survey, the United States
           Geological Survey, the Colorado Groundwater Atlas, peer-reviewed
           publications, the Commission’s Field Scout Cards, electric logs (e.g.,
           resistivity logs), produced water samples, Groundwater samples collected
           to support aquifer exemptions, and samples collected from domestic,
           municipal, agricultural, and industrial water wells. If the top or bottom
           depth, or TDS concentration cannot be determined using these sources
           the Operator will comply with Rule 408.e.(5) to ensure isolation of all such



                                                                                      106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Groundwater. The casing and cementing plan will also identify the
           distance between the objective formation to be hydraulically fractured and
           Groundwater with less than 10,000 milligrams per liter total dissolved
           solids, and indicate whether a confining layer exists in a separate
           stratigraphic layer between those zones.

     (7)   Statewide Offset Well Evaluation.

           A.     The Form 2 will include an offset Well evaluation. The Operator will
                  evaluate the construction and integrity of all offset Wells within
                  1,500 feet of the proposed wellbore. The Operator will provide a
                  plan to address all offset Wells within 1,500 feet that do not meet
                  isolation and integrity requirements.

           B.     The Operator will attach any consents obtained pursuant to Rule
                  408.u.(1) to the Form 2.

           C.     The Operator will provide notice pursuant to Rule 408.v.

     (8)   Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment at Depths 2,000 Feet or Less. If an
           Operator proposes to drill a Well at a depth less than 2,000 feet true
           vertical depth (“TVD”) below the surface that will be subject to Hydraulic
           Fracturing Treatment, the following requirements apply:

           A.     Geology and Hydrogeology Assessment. The Operator will
                  characterize and assess the local geology and Groundwater
                  resources within 2 miles of the proposed oil and gas Well.

           B.     Engineering Assessment. The Operator will describe the
                  proposed drilling process, Well design, completion process,
                  Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment process, production methods, and
                  facilities. The assessment will identify any risks to geology and
                  hydrogeology and explain how the Operator will prevent, minimize,
                  or mitigate any identified risk.

     (9)   With their Form 2, Operators will state whether the proposed Well is
           subject to the requirements of § 24-65.1-108, C.R.S., because it is located
           in an area designated as one of state interest.

c.   Administrative Approval or Denial of the Form 2.

     (1)   Director Review. The Director will review the Oil and Gas Location where
           the Well is located to ensure that necessary and reasonable conditions of
           approval are applied to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public
           health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

     (2)   When the Director May Require Additional Information.




                                                                                    107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.    If necessary to ensure protection of public health, safety, welfare,
                 the environment, and wildlife resources, the Director may require a
                 Form 4, Sundry Notice, with additional Best Management Practices
                 or additional information regarding the Oil and Gas Location. The
                 Director will review any such Form 4 in conjunction with the Form 2.

           B.    The Director may require the Operator to submit a Cumulative
                 Impacts analysis pursuant to Rule 315.b that provides quantitative
                 and qualitative data to evaluate incremental adverse and beneficial
                 contributions to Cumulative Impacts caused by the proposed Oil
                 and Gas Operations, as well as a Form 2B, if the Director
                 determines that it is necessary to evaluate or reevaluate the
                 Cumulative Impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations,
                 including, but not limited to, when:

                 i.     The Form 2A for the Location was approved prior to January
                        15, 2021;

                 ii.    The expiration date on the Form 2A has passed;

                 iii.   Land use surrounding the Location has changed significantly
                        since the approval of the Form 2A for the Location, including
                        but not limited to changes in wildlife habitat, the addition of
                        one or more Residential Building Units, High Occupancy
                        Building Units, School Facilities, or Child Care Centers in
                        proximity to the Location, or if the area is now a
                        Disproportionately Impacted Community; or

                 iv.    Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts is necessary to ensure
                        that the application complies with all requirements of the
                        Commission’s Rules, and protects and minimizes adverse
                        impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                        and wildlife resources.

           C.    If the Director requires the Operator to submit a new cumulative
                 impacts analysis pursuant to Rule 308.c.(1).A, the Director will
                 review the Cumulative Impacts analysis in conjunction with the
                 Form 2 and will apply any conditions of approval necessary to
                 ensure that the Oil and Gas Operations avoid, minimize, and
                 mitigate adverse Cumulative Impacts to public health, safety,
                 welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

           D.    The Director may refer any Form 2 subject to Rules 308.c.(2).A-C
                 to the Commission for review.

     (3)   Approval. The Director may approve a Form 2 that complies with all
           requirements of the Commission’s Rules, and protects and minimizes




                                                                                    108
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
             wildlife resources.

       (4)   Conditions of Approval. The Director may add any conditions of
             approval to a Form 2 or its associated Form 4, if applicable, that are
             necessary and reasonable to ensure compliance with all requirements of
             the Commission’s Rules or to protect and minimize adverse impacts to
             public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

       (5)   Denial. The Director may deny any Form 2 that does not meet all
             requirements of the Commission’s Rules, or does not provide necessary
             and reasonable protections for, or minimize adverse impacts to, public
             health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. The
             Director will put forth the reason for the denial. If the Director denies a
             Form 2, the Operator has the right for a hearing in front of the Commission
             at an upcoming hearing.

       (6)   The Director may request, and an Operator will provide upon request, any
             relevant information necessary and reasonable to determine whether to
             approve or deny a Form 2. The Director will provide the Operator with the
             reason for the request.

       (7)   The Director will endeavor to review Form 2 applications in a timely and
             efficient manner. If the Director does not complete review within 90 days
             of an Operator submitting a Form 2, the Operator may move for a hearing
             before the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer. At
             such hearing, the Director will provide an explanation of the status of the
             Director’s review of the Form 2 and any reasons for delay.

d.     Changes to Form 2. Prior to approval of the Form 2, minor revisions or
       requested information may be provided by contacting the Director. After
       approval, any substantive changes will be submitted for approval on a Form 2. A
       Form 4 will be submitted, along with supplemental information requested by the
       Director, when non-substantive revisions are made after approval, and no
       additional fee will be imposed.

e.     Commission Review. The Commission may, on its own motion, initiate
       proceedings to approve or deny a Form 2 in place of the Director. In proceedings
       initiated upon the Commission’s own motion, the permit applicant has the burden
       of proof.

309.   POST-COMPLETENESS CONSULTATION AND COMMUNITY MEETING

a.     Unless otherwise specified below, all consultations and meetings required by
       Rule 309 will occur within 45 days after the Director posts the completeness
       determination on the Commission’s website pursuant to Rule 303.d.(1), except
       that consultations and meetings will occur within 60 days for proposed Oil and




                                                                                       109
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Gas Development Plans or Form 2As located within a Disproportionately
     Impacted Community.

b.   Surface Owners. The Operator will consult in good faith with the Surface Owner
     or the Surface Owner’s appointed agent about the location of all surface
     disturbances, and in preparation for Reclamation and abandonment. The Surface
     Owner or appointed agent may submit relevant comments to the Director about
     any Oil and Gas Development Plan pursuant to Rule 303.d.(1).

     (1)   Information Provided by Operator. When consulting with the Surface
           Owner or appointed agent, the Operator will furnish, in writing:

           A.     All the information required for a complete Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan;

           B.     The expected date of commencement of operations;

           C.     Topsoil management practices to be employed; and

           D.     The location of associated roads, Production Facilities,
                  infrastructure, and any other areas to be used for Oil and Gas
                  Operations.

     (2)   Waiver. The Surface Owner or the Surface Owner’s appointed agent may
           waive, permanently or otherwise, their right to consult with the Operator at
           any time. Such waiver will be in writing and signed by the Surface Owner.

     (3)   Operators will conduct Oil and Gas Operations in a manner that
           accommodates the Surface Owner by minimizing intrusion upon and
           damage to the surface of the land.

c.   Post-Completeness Community Meeting. If any Residential Building Units,
     High Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, or Child Care Centers are
     located within 1/2 mile of the proposed Oil and Gas Location, or if any
     Residential Building Units, High Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, or
     Child Care Centers within a Disproportionately Impacted Community are located
     within 4,000 feet of the proposed Oil and Gas Location, the Operator will hold a
     post-completeness community meeting that will be open to the public.

     (1)   Disproportionately Impacted Communities. For any Oil and Gas
           Location subject to this Rule 309.c, if the proposed Working Pad Surface
           is within 4,000 feet of a Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit
           within a Disproportionately Impacted Community:

           A.     The Operator will determine the date, time, type, and location of the
                  meeting with input from the Community Liaison, and the meeting
                  will be held within, or in close proximity to, the residents of the
                  Disproportionately Impacted Community;



                                                                                   110
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The Operator will invite the Community Liaison to attend; and

           C.    The Operator will facilitate coordination of child care, transportation,
                 and interpretation services upon request or as indicated by the
                 Community Liaison.

     (2)   Information Provided by Operator. At the post-completeness community
           meeting, the Operator will provide the following information:

           A.    The Operator’s contact information including its electronic mail
                 address, phone number, and physical address(es) to which the
                 public may direct questions and comments;

           B.    The contact information for the Relevant Local Government;

           C.    The Commission’s website address and main telephone number;

           D.    The date construction is anticipated to begin;

           E.    The anticipated duration of pad construction, drilling, and
                 completion activities;

           F.    The types of equipment anticipated to be present on the proposed
                 Oil and Gas Locations;

           G.    The Operator’s interim and final Reclamation obligation;

           H.    A description and diagram of the proposed Oil and Gas Locations
                 that includes the dimensions of the proposed Oil and Gas Location
                 and the anticipated layout of production or injection facilities,
                 Pipelines, roads, and any other areas to be used for Oil and Gas
                 Operations;

           I.    Information relevant to potential health, safety, welfare, and
                 environmental impacts associated with Oil and Gas Operations,
                 including but not limited to security, noise, light, odors, dust, and
                 traffic; and

           J.    Information about proposed Best Management Practices,
                 Enhanced Systems and Practices, or mitigation measures to avoid,
                 minimize, or mitigate those impacts.

     (3)   The post-completeness community meeting will include an opportunity for
           attendees to provide an electronic mail address in order to receive written
           correspondence from the Operator, Community Liaison, or Commission
           regarding the proposed Oil and Gas Location(s).




                                                                                     111
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Within 10 days of the post-completeness community meeting, the
           Operator will provide to the Director a written summary of the meeting,
           detailing:

           A.     The date, time, location, and format of the meeting;

           B.     The number of attendees and description of any accommodations
                  made to facilitate their participation, such as child care,
                  transportation, or translation services;

           C.     Any comments in support or opposition voiced by the participants
                  and the Operator’s response(s) to each comment; and

           D.     Any revisions the Operator intends to make to the Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan application as a result of the meeting.

     (5)   Notice.

           A.     The Operator will provide notice of the post-completeness
                  community meeting to all Surface Owners, Building Unit and High
                  Occupancy Building Unit owners and tenants, and residents,
                  including tenants of both residential and commercial properties,
                  within 1/2 mile of a proposed Oil and Gas Location, and within
                  4,000 feet of a proposed Oil and Gas Location for any Building
                  Units within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

           B.     Notice of the post-completeness community meeting will comply
                  with the procedural and substantive requirements of Rules
                  303.e.(2) & (3). Notice may be accomplished by sending the notice
                  addressed to “Current Resident.” The Operator may also post
                  information about the meeting on its website or social media
                  accounts.

     (6)   Waiver. The Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit owner, agent,
           or tenant may waive, permanently or otherwise, their respective right to
           receive notice pursuant to the Commission’s Rules. Any such waiver will
           be in writing, signed by the owner, agent, or tenant.

     (7)   The Operator and the Director will consider all concerns related to public
           health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources raised by
           Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit owners, their agents, or
           tenants at the post-completeness community meeting . The Operator will
           provide a written response to all such concerns to the Director as an
           attachment to the Form 2A prior to the Director making a
           Recommendation pursuant to Rule 306.

     (8)   All information provided pursuant to this Rule 309.c will also be provided in
           all languages spoken by 5% or more of the population in the census block



                                                                                     112
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           group(s) within 2,000 feet of each proposed Oil and Gas Location within
           the Oil and Gas Development Plan.

d.   Schools, Child Care Centers, and School Governing Bodies.

     (1)   No less than 30 days before the Operator submits an Oil and Gas
           Development Plan, an Operator will provide a pre-application notice of
           intent to conduct Oil and Gas Operations to any relevant School, Child
           Care Center, and School Governing Body within 2,000 feet as measured
           from the Working Pad Surface to:

           A.     The property line of a parcel currently owned by the School, Child
                  Care Center, or School Governing Body as identified through
                  county assessor records;

           B.     The property line of a parcel considered a Future School Facility as
                  identified on the final approved plat that may be obtained from the
                  planning department of the Local Government; or

           C.     What reasonably appears to be a School Facility (regardless of
                  property ownership) based on the Operator’s review of current
                  aerial maps that show surface development or surveys of the area.

     (2)   The Notice will include:

           A.     The Operator’s contact information;

           B.     The location and general description of the proposed Oil and Gas
                  Location, including the cultural distances table as required under
                  Rule 304.b.(3), and drawings, maps, and figures required under
                  Rule 304.b.(7).

           C.     The Relevant Local Government contact information;

           D.     The anticipated date, by calendar year and quarter, that
                  construction will begin and the expected schedule of drilling and
                  completion activities;

           E.     A description of the status of the Relevant Local Government’s
                  siting disposition, if applicable;

           F.     Notice that the School Governing Body for the School Facility or
                  Child Care Center may request a consultation to discuss the
                  proposed operations by contacting the Operator, and that the
                  Director may be invited to any meeting. A School Governing Body
                  or Child Care Center may delegate the consultation process to the
                  principal or senior administrator of a School or Child Care Center in
                  proximity to the proposed Oil and Gas Location; and



                                                                                      113
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           G.    Notice that the School, Child Care Center, or School Governing
                 Body may submit comments regarding the proposed Oil and Gas
                 Location to the Commission as part of the Rule 303.d.(1) public
                 comment period.

     (3)   A School Governing Body may waive the right to receive notice under this
           provision for the School Governing Body and all Schools within the area
           subject to the School Governing Body’s oversight at any time by providing
           written notice to the Operator.

     (4)   The Operator, School Governing Body, or Director may initiate
           consultation pursuant to this Rule 309. During the consultation, the School
           Governing Body may identify additional discrete facilities or areas it
           considers a School Facility or Child Care Center, and the Operator will
           provide relevant information regarding planned measures to avoid,
           minimize, or mitigate adverse impacts to the School Facility or Child Care
           Center.

e.   Colorado Parks and Wildlife.

     (1)   The Purpose of Consultation. The purpose of consultation with CPW is
           to provide the Director the information necessary to determine whether an
           application protects Wildlife Resources and whether conditions of approval
           are necessary to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife
           Resources associated with High Priority Habitats, and protect against
           adverse impacts to Wildlife Resources resulting from Oil and Gas
           Operations. Factors that CPW may take into consideration during
           consultation include, but are not limited to, the following:

           A.    Anticipated adverse impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas
                 Operations on Wildlife Resources;

           B.    The extent to which the proposed siting of facilities Avoids or
                 Minimizes Adverse Impacts;

           C.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations
                 incorporate the use of existing facilities, roads, and Pipeline
                 corridors and limit new surface disturbance and habitat
                 fragmentation;

           D.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations use
                 technology and Best Management Practices which are protective of
                 Wildlife Resources, including but not limited to seasonal
                 construction and drilling limitations, noise limitations, remote
                 operations, equipment disinfection, and transporting and storing
                 liquids through Pipelines and large Tanks or other measures to
                 reduce traffic volumes;




                                                                                   114
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           E.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations are
                 within land used or designated to be used for residential, industrial,
                 commercial, agricultural, or other purposes, and the existing wildlife
                 disturbance associated with such use; and

           F.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations occur on
                 federal or private lands for which the use and access of the lands in
                 question may already be incorporated into a federal planning
                 document, or the private Surface Owner designates the use of the
                 land based on the function and utility of multiple use designations.

     (2)   When Consultation Must Occur. The Operator will consult with the
           Surface Owner (unless the Surface Owner has waived their right to
           participate pursuant to Rule 309.e.(4).C) and with CPW about a Form 2A,
           Oil and Gas Development Plan, CAP, or other matter where:

           A.    A proposed Oil and Gas Location or associated new access road,
                 utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within High Priority Habitat, a State
                 Park, or a State Wildlife Area;

           B.    A proposed Oil and Gas Location or associated new access road,
                 utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within federally designated critical
                 habitat or an area with a known occurrence for a federal or
                 Colorado threatened or endangered species;

           C.    A proposed Oil and Gas Location or associated new access road,
                 utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within an existing conservation
                 easement established wholly or partly for wildlife habitat;

           D.    CPW requests consultation or because consultation is necessary to
                 Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate reasonably foreseeable direct, indirect,
                 or Cumulative Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources from a Form
                 2A, Oil and Gas Development Plan, CAP, or other matter where
                 consultation is not otherwise required;

           E.    The Operator seeks a variance pursuant to Rule 502 from a
                 provision in the Commission’s 1200 Series Rules, or from wildlife-
                 specific conditions of approval or Best Management Practices
                 approved on a Form 2A; or

           F.    The Director determines that consultation would assist the Director
                 in determining whether to recommend approving or denying an Oil
                 and Gas Development Plan or CAP.

           G.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement to consult with
                 CPW may be waived by CPW at any time. Any waiver will be based
                 on a written finding by CPW that consultation is not necessary to




                                                                                        115
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 protect Wildlife Resources from quantifiable adverse direct, indirect,
                 or Cumulative Impacts from Oil and Gas Operations.

     (3)   When Consultation is Not Required. Consultation will not be required if:

           A.    The Director has previously approved a Form 2A or CAP and
                 associated Wildlife Protection Plan or Wildlife Mitigation Plan that
                 addresses the proposed Oil and Gas Location and the proposed
                 operations are in compliance with previously approved plans.

           B.    CPW has previously approved, in writing, a Wildlife Protection Plan,
                 Wildlife Mitigation Plan, or other conservation plan that remains in
                 effect for the area that includes the proposed Oil and Gas
                 Operations and the Oil and Gas Location is in compliance with such
                 plan.

           C.    The Operator demonstrates and CPW agrees in writing that:

                 i.     The identified habitat and species triggering the consultation
                        is no longer present and unlikely to return to the area; or

                 ii.    The proposed Oil and Gas Location is within an area either
                        primarily or completely developed for residential, agricultural,
                        commercial, or industrial use that makes the area
                        incompatible with wildlife habitat.

           D.    The proposed new Oil and Gas Location would involve a one-time
                 increase in surface disturbance of 1 acre or less contiguous with an
                 existing Oil and Gas Location with a Wildlife Mitigation Plan or other
                 conservation plan that remains in effect for the area.

           E.    A Commission Order limits the density of Oil and Gas Locations
                 within a Drilling and Spacing Unit to 1 per section, and the Order
                 includes a Wildlife Mitigation Plan or other conservation plan that
                 remains in effect for the area.

     (4)   Procedures for Consultation.

           A.    The Operator will provide:

                 i.     The Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP, if applicable, or
                        for consultations that do not involve an Oil and Gas
                        Development Plan or CAP, a description of the proposed Oil
                        and Gas Operations, including their location and the phasing
                        and duration of operations consistent with Rules 303 & 304,
                        and, if applicable Rule 314; and




                                                                                    116
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.    Any other relevant available information about the proposed
                        Oil and Gas Operations and the affected Wildlife Resources,
                        including the wildlife habitat drawing pursuant to Rule
                        304.b.(7).C and information required by Rule 1201.

           B.    The Operator, the Director, the Surface Owner, and CPW will have
                 60 days to conduct the consultation required by this Rule 309.e,
                 recognizing that pre-consultation or consultation with Relevant
                 Local Governments or federal land management agencies may
                 shorten the process. The time period for consultation will begin at
                 the start of the Rule 303.d.(1) or 314.f.(1).A public comment period,
                 or when an Operator requests a variance. If the Operator has made
                 no reasonable accommodation for consultation within such 60-day
                 period, the Director will have discretion to postpone making a
                 decision about an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP in order
                 to allow consultation to occur if the Director believes the information
                 from consultation is necessary to determine how to protect and
                 Avoid, Mitigate, and Minimize Adverse Impacts to Wildlife
                 Resources.

           C.    The Surface Owner may waive its right to participate in the
                 consultation and is not obligated to provide access to its surface for
                 such consultation. If access to the surface is not granted, the
                 Operator will arrange a consultation meeting with CPW at a
                 mutually agreeable time and location and the consultation will be
                 based on best available data.

     (5)   Result of Consultation.

           A.    As a result of consultation required by this Rule 309.e, CPW may
                 make written recommendations to the Director about how to protect
                 Wildlife Resources and conditions of approval that are necessary
                 and reasonable to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate direct, indirect, and
                 Cumulative Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources from Oil and
                 Gas Operations pursuant to Rules 1202 & 1203.

           B.    CPW may also recommend, in writing, that the Commission deny
                 an Oil and Gas Development Plan, Form 2A, Wildlife Protection
                 Plan, Wildlife Mitigation Plan, Compensatory Mitigation Plan, or
                 CAP due to reasonably foreseeable risks or Adverse Impacts to
                 Wildlife Resources that cannot be Avoided, Minimized, or Mitigated
                 to the extent necessary to protect these resources from Oil and
                 Gas Operations.

           C.    Except for Rule 1202.c, CPW may waive, in writing, any operating
                 or mitigation requirements otherwise required by Rules 1202 or




                                                                                    117
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                1203 based on CPW’s analysis of potential Unavoidable Adverse
                Impacts.

          D.    For Rule 1202.c:

                i.    CPW may waive the application of and the Director may
                      grant an exception to Rule 1202.c.(1).R for any new ground
                      disturbance that meets the criteria of Rule 1202.c between
                      300 feet and 500 feet from the Ordinary High Water Mark
                      (“OHWM”) of cutthroat trout designated crucial habitat, and
                      native fish and other native aquatic species conservation
                      waters, if the Operator adheres to the following Best
                      Management Practices:

                      aa.   Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in Tanks
                            that are placed on a Working Pad Surface in an area
                            with downgradient perimeter berming;

                      bb.   Construct lined berms or other lined containment
                            devices pursuant to Rule 603.o around any new crude
                            oil, condensate, and produced water storage Tanks
                            that are installed after January 15, 2021;

                      cc.   Inspect the Oil and Location on a daily basis, unless
                            the approved Form 2A provides for different
                            inspection frequency or alternative method of
                            compliance;

                      dd.   Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at the
                            Oil and Gas Location during drilling and completion
                            operations; and

                      ee.   Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that Operators
                            may continue to utilize existing Pits that were properly
                            permitted, constructed, operated, and maintained in
                            compliance prior to January 15, 2021.

                ii.   CPW may waive the application of and the Director may
                      grant an exception to Rule 1202.c.(1).S:

                      aa.   For perennial streams, if the Operator adheres to the
                            following Best Management Practices for any new
                            ground disturbance that meets the criteria of Rule
                            1202.c between 300 feet and 500 feet from the
                            OHWM of sportfish management waters:

                            1.     Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in
                                   Tanks that are placed on a Working Pad



                                                                                118
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                                 Surface in an area with downgradient
                                 perimeter berming;

                           2.    Construct lined berms or other lined
                                 containment devices pursuant to Rule 603.o
                                 around any new crude oil, condensate, and
                                 produced water storage Tanks that are
                                 installed after January 15, 2021;

                           3.    Inspect the Oil and Location on a daily basis,
                                 unless the approved Form 2A provides for
                                 different inspection frequency or alternative
                                 method of compliance;

                           4.    Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at
                                 the Oil and Gas Location during drilling and
                                 completion operations; and

                           5.    Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that
                                 Operators may continue to utilize existing Pits
                                 that were properly permitted, constructed,
                                 operated, and maintained in compliance prior
                                 to January 15, 2021.

                     bb.   For ephemeral and intermittent streams, if the
                           Operator adheres to the following Best Management
                           Practices:

                           1.    Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in
                                 Tanks that are placed on a Working Pad
                                 Surface in an area with downgradient
                                 perimeter berming;

                           2.    Construct lined berms or other lined
                                 containment devices pursuant to Rule 603.o
                                 around any new crude oil, condensate, and
                                 produced water storage Tanks that are
                                 installed after January 15, 2021;

                           3.    Inspect the Oil and Location on a daily basis,
                                 unless the approved Form 2A provides for
                                 different inspection frequency or alternative
                                 method of compliance;

                           4.    Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at
                                 the Oil and Gas Location during drilling and
                                 completion operations; and




                                                                              119
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                               5.     Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that
                                      Operators may continue to utilize existing Pits
                                      that were properly permitted, constructed,
                                      operated, and maintained in compliance prior
                                      to January 15, 2021.

                 iii.   CPW may waive the application of Rule 1202.c.(1).T.

                 iv.    CPW may waive the application of and the Director may
                        grant an exception to Rule 1202.c.(1) for a proposed location
                        within an approved CAP that includes preliminary siting
                        approval pursuant to Rule 314.b.(4).

           E.    Where applicable, CPW may also make written recommendations
                 on whether a variance request pursuant to Rule 502 should be
                 granted, under what conditions, and the reasons for any such
                 recommendations, including requests for variances from Rule
                 1202.c.(1).Q–S. The Commission will consider the written
                 recommendations of CPW and the relevant federal land
                 management agency, if applicable, including recommended or final
                 federal stipulations and conditions of approval.

     (6)   Conditions of Approval.

           A.    If the Director agrees that the conditions of approval or denial as
                 recommended by CPW are necessary and reasonable to Avoid,
                 Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources, the
                 Director will incorporate CPW’s recommended conditions into the
                 Director’s Recommendation on an Oil and Gas Development Plan,
                 Form 2A, or CAP.

           B.    The Director will not incorporate conditions of approval to Avoid,
                 Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources into
                 the Director’s Recommendation without consent of the affected
                 Surface Owner. This provision does not apply to conditions of
                 approval to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife
                 Resources that do not directly impact the affected Surface Owner’s
                 property or use of that property including, but not limited to, off-site
                 compensatory mitigation requirements.

           C.    If the Director determines that any conditions of approval or denial
                 as recommended by CPW are not necessary to Avoid, Minimize, or
                 Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources, the Director will
                 explain the grounds for the disagreement in the Director’s
                 Recommendation.




                                                                                     120
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.    The Commission will determine whether to follow CPW’s
                 recommendation when making a final decision to approve or deny
                 an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP.

     (7)   Notification of Decision to Consulting Agency. Where consultation
           occurs, the Director will provide the Director’s Recommendation to CPW
           on the same day that it posts the decision to the Commission’s website
           pursuant to Rule 306.c. CPW may petition the Commission to review the
           Director’s Recommendation.

f.   Consultation with CDPHE.

     (1)   When Consultation Will Occur.

           A.    The Director will request consultation with CDPHE if:

                 i.     At any time during the Local Government consultation and
                        comment period, a Local Government requests the
                        participation of CDPHE in the Director’s consideration of an
                        Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP based on concerns
                        regarding public health, safety, welfare, or impacts to the
                        environment;

                 ii.    An Operator requests a variance from the Commission
                        pursuant to Rule 502 from a provision of Rules 303, 304,
                        314, 408.e, 411, 426, 427, 604, 615, 801, 802, 803.g, 803.h,
                        806.c, or the Commission’s 900 Series Rules as part of an
                        Oil and Gas Development Plan, Form 2A, CAP, or UIC
                        Aquifer exemption application;

                 iii.   An Operator proposes an Oil and Gas Location with a
                        Working Pad Surface within 1/2 mile of a Residential
                        Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility,
                        or Child Care Center, or within 1 mile if the Building Unit or
                        High Occupancy Building Unit is within a Disproportionately
                        Impacted Community;

                 iv.    An Operator proposes an Oil and Gas Location with a
                        Working Pad Surface within 2,000 feet of one or more
                        Residential Building Units, High Occupancy Building Units,
                        School Facilities, or Child Care Centers within a
                        Disproportionately Impacted Community; or

                 v.     An Operator proposes an Oil and Gas Location within the
                        Ozone Nonattainment Area and intends to conduct pre-
                        production operations between May 1 and September 30.




                                                                                  121
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The Director may request consultation about any Oil and Gas
                 Development Plan or CAP if the Director reasonably believes that
                 consultation with the CDPHE would assist the Director in
                 understanding the potential risks to public health, safety, welfare, or
                 the environment, including adverse Cumulative Impacts.

           C.    The Director will consult with CDPHE if CDPHE requests
                 consultation.

           D.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement to consult with
                 CDPHE may be waived by CDPHE at any time.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation.

           A.    The time period for consultation with CDPHE will begin at the start
                 of the Rule 303.d.(1) public comment period, or when an Operator
                 requests a variance from a Rule listed in Rule 309.f.(1).A.ii. If the
                 public comment period is extended by the Director or the
                 Commission, then the CDPHE consultation period may also be
                 extended for the same amount of time that the public comment
                 period is extended. Following conclusion of the initial post-
                 completeness consultation period, the Director may reopen a new
                 post-completeness consultation period with CDPHE if information
                 pertaining to the Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP changes or
                 new evidence arises related to the public health or environmental
                 impacts of the Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP. The Director
                 may extend the consultation period by 60 days upon the request of
                 CDPHE if additional time is necessary to avoid, minimize, or
                 mitigate adverse environmental impacts.

           B.    The consultation required by this Rule 309.f will focus on identifying
                 potential impacts to public health, safety, welfare, or the
                 environment from activities associated with the proposed Oil and
                 Gas Development Plan or CAP, and development of conditions of
                 approval or other measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate those
                 potential adverse impacts.

           C.    The consultation process may include, but is not limited to:

                 i.     Review of the relevant Oil and Gas Development Plan or
                        CAP application, variance request, Well-density application,
                        draft Commission regulation, or most recent Form 2D;

                 ii.    Discussions with the Relevant Local Government(s) and
                        Proximate Local Government(s) to better understand the
                        Local Governments’ concerns;




                                                                                    122
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 iii.   Discussions with the Commission, Operator, Surface Owner,
                        Surface Owner’s tenant, emergency responders, School
                        officials, hospital administrators, Public Water System
                        administrators, or any other potentially Affected Person; and

                 iv.    Review of public comments.

     (3)   Results of Consultation.

           A.    As a result of consultation called for by this Rule 309.f, CDPHE
                 may make written recommendations to the Director about
                 conditions of approval necessary and reasonable to protect public
                 health, safety, welfare, or the environment, and address adverse
                 Cumulative Impacts. Such recommendations may include, but are
                 not limited to, monitoring requirements or Best Management
                 Practices. CDPHE may also recommend that the Commission deny
                 an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP if necessary and
                 reasonable to protect public health, safety, welfare, or the
                 environment, and address adverse Cumulative Impacts. Where
                 applicable, CDPHE may also make written recommendations about
                 whether a variance request should be granted or denied and the
                 reasons for any such recommendations.

           B.    Standards for Consultation and Director Decision. If the
                 Director agrees that the conditions of approval recommended by
                 CDPHE are necessary and reasonable to protect public health,
                 safety, welfare, or the environment, or address adverse Cumulative
                 Impacts, the Director will incorporate CDPHE’s recommended
                 conditions into approvals of an Oil and Gas Development Plan or
                 CAP. If the Director determines that any conditions of approval
                 recommended by CDPHE are not necessary and reasonable to
                 protect public health, safety, welfare, or the environment, or
                 address adverse Cumulative Impacts, the Director will explain the
                 grounds for the disagreement in the Director’s Recommendation.
                 The Commission will determine whether to follow CDPHE’s
                 recommendation when making a final decision to approve or deny
                 an Oil and Gas Development Plan or CAP.

           C.    Notification of Decision to Consulting Agency. Where
                 consultation occurs, the Director will provide the Director’s
                 Recommendation to CDPHE on the same day that it announces the
                 decision. CDPHE may petition the Commission to review the
                 Director’s Recommendation.

g.   Public Water Systems.




                                                                                 123
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)    The Operator will engage in a Formal Consultation Process with all Public
              Water Systems that receive notice pursuant to Rule 303.e.(1).H, unless
              the Public Water System waives its right to consultation.

       (2)    Groundwater Monitoring. Among other topics, consultations pursuant to
              Rule 309.g will address whether groundwater monitoring should occur
              pursuant to Rule 411.b.(4).B.

310.   SUSPENDING APPROVED OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PLANS

The Director may suspend an approved Oil and Gas Development Plan or any
associated Drilling and Spacing Units, Form 2As, or Form 2s if the Director has
reasonable cause to believe that information submitted on an application was materially
incorrect. An Operator may petition the Commission to review the Director’s decision.
The Commission will hear the petition at its next regularly scheduled hearing.

311.   EXPIRATION

a.     Except as otherwise specified by Rule 314.b.(2), Oil and Gas Development Plans
       are valid for 3 years. The following expirations will occur 3 years from the
       approval date of the Oil and Gas Development Plan:

       (1)    If drilling operations have not commenced for a permitted Well, the Form 2
              for the undrilled Well will be null and void.

       (2)    If drilling operations have not commenced at any Wells on an Oil and Gas
              Location, the Form 2A(s) for that Oil and Gas Location, any associated
              Production Facilities designed to serve only that Location, and the
              associated Form 2s will be null and void;

       (3)    If drilling operations have not commenced for any permitted Well in a
              Drilling and Spacing Unit, the Drilling and Spacing Unit order will be
              vacated, and any associated Form 2As and Form 2s will become null and
              void; or

       (4)    If drilling operations have not commenced for any permitted Well subject
              to an Oil and Gas Development Plan, the Oil and Gas Development Plan
              will expire, the Drilling and Spacing Unit orders will be vacated, and the
              associated Form 2As and Form 2s will be null and void.

b.     Extensions. The Commission or Director will not approve extensions for an Oil
       and Gas Development Plan, a Drilling and Spacing Unit, a Form 2A, or a Form 2.

c.     Applications and Refile Forms After Expiration. Oil and Gas Development
       Plans, Drilling and Spacing Unit applications, Refile Form 2As, and Refile Form
       2s may be filed within 60 days prior to expiration or anytime following expiration
       and are subject to the Commission’s Rules in effect at the time of submission.




                                                                                       124
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.     Remedy. Any built Oil and Gas Location for which a Form 2A expires pursuant to
       Rule 311.a will be subject to final Reclamation pursuant to the Commission’s
       1000 Series Rules.

312.   SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS ON EXISTING WELLS

a.     The Operator will submit and obtain the Director’s approval of a Form 4 before
       conducting any subsequent Well operations involving heavy equipment, except
       for routine Well maintenance.

b.     Verbal Approval. If during the course of the subsequent operations or routine
       Well maintenance the Operator determines that additional subsequent operations
       involving heavy equipment that are not routine maintenance are necessary, the
       Operator may obtain verbal approval from the Director to conduct the subsequent
       operations. If the Operator obtains verbal approval from the Director, the
       Operator will submit a Form 4 to obtain written approval from the Director within 7
       days.

c.     Information Requirements. The Form 4 will describe the details of the proposed
       work.

d.     Approval of Subsequent Well Operations. The Director may approve a Form 4
       that complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules, and protects and
       minimizes adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
       wildlife resources..

       (1)   The Director may add any conditions of the approval to a Form 4 that are
             necessary and reasonable to ensure compliance with all requirements of
             the Commission’s Rules, or to protect and minimize adverse impacts to
             public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

       (2)   The Director will review the Oil and Gas Location where the Well is
             located to ensure that necessary and reasonable conditions of approval
             are applied to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health,
             safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

       (3)   The Director may require the Operator submit an updated or supplemental
             Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant to Rule 315.b that provides
             quantitative and qualitative data to evaluate incremental adverse and
             beneficial contributions to Cumulative Impacts caused by Oil and Gas
             Operations associated with the proposed operations, as well as a Form
             2B.

e.     Notice Requirements. An Operator will provide notice of operations covered by
       Rule 312.a to the Surface Owner pursuant to Rule 412.a.(4).




                                                                                      125
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

313.   FORM 20, PERMIT TO CONDUCT SEISMIC OPERATIONS

a.     Submitting Form 20. Operators, or, if applicable, seismic survey contractors, will
       submit and obtain approval of a Form 20, Permit to Conduct Seismic Operations
       prior to commencement of seismic operations, including shothole drilling and
       recording operations.

b.     Information Requirements. The Form 20 will include the following:

       (1)   A map in a suitable size and scale to show the proposed project boundary,
             energy source locations, and receiver locations with sections, townships
             and ranges, county and municipal boundaries, and High Priority Habitat.

       (2)   GIS data for the proposed project boundary, energy source points, and
             receiver locations in a format approved by the Director.

       (3)   Any Relevant Local Government permits, as required in Rule 313.c.

       (4)   Any traffic control plan, as required in Rule 313.d.

       (5)   Any plan or measures to protect and minimize impacts to Wildlife
             Resources developed in coordination with CPW.

       (6)   Reclamation plan.

c.     Local Government Permits. Operators will obtain all required Relevant Local
       Government permits prior to commencing seismic operations. Operators will
       submit copies of the Relevant Local Government permits with their Form 20
       applications.

d.     Traffic Control and Load Limits. If the Relevant Local Government approval
       fails to address traffic control and load limits then Operators will include the
       following information in traffic control plans submitted with their Form 20
       applications:

       (1)   If the seismic operations will utilize vibroseis units, confirmation that the
             Relevant Local Government allows vibroseis units to travel and operate on
             the public roadways identified in the survey area;

       (2)   The load limits of all public roads within the survey area; and

       (3)   A detailed traffic control plan for any activity in a public right-of-way.

e.     Director’s Decision.

       (1)   The Director may approve the Form 20 if it complies with the
             Commission’s Rules and protects and minimizes adverse impacts to
             public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.




                                                                                          126
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)   The Director may deny the Form 20 if it does not comply with the
             Commission’s Rules or if it does not adequately protect and minimize
             adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
             wildlife resources.

f.     Changes to a Form 20. Operators or seismic survey contractors will file any
       proposed change to an approved Permit to Conduct Seismic Operations on a
       Form 20.

g.     Form 20 Expiration. An approved Form 20 will expire 6 months from the date of
       approval.

h.     Refile Form 20. Operators or seismic survey contractors may submit a Refile
       Form 20 for approval of a previously permitted seismic project that was not
       conducted during the valid term of the previously approved Form 20. The Refile
       Form 20 will comply with Rule 314.

i.     Operators will provide a copy of the approved Form 20 to the Relevant Local
       Government.

314.   COMPREHENSIVE AREA PLANS

a.     Purpose of Comprehensive Area Plans.

       (1)   The Commission intends for Comprehensive Area Plans (“CAPs”) to
             facilitate evaluating and addressing Cumulative Impacts from oil and gas
             development in a broad geographic area by identifying plans for one or
             more Operators to develop Oil and Gas Locations within a region while
             avoiding, minimizing, and mitigating impacts to public health, safety,
             welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources in the region through
             systematic planning of infrastructure location, Best Management
             Practices, and centralizing facilities.

       (2)   The Commission intends to create incentives for Operators to develop
             CAPs by conveying an exclusive right to operate in the area covered by
             the CAP for an appropriate duration of time.

       (3)   The Commission encourages Operators to develop CAPs. The
             Commission may direct the Director to meet with an Operator to discuss
             whether submission of a CAP is appropriate. The Director may request a
             meeting with an Operator to discuss whether submission of a CAP is
             appropriate pursuant to Rule 303.a.(8).

b.     Rights Conveyed.

       (1)   If the Commission approves a CAP, the approved CAP will convey the
             exclusive right to develop the oil and gas formation or formations that are




                                                                                       127
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           the subject of the CAP within the CAP’s geographic boundaries for the
           duration of the CAP as specified by Rule 314.c.

     (2)   Approved Oil and Gas Development Plans, Drilling and Spacing Units,
           Form 2As, and Form 2s within an approved CAP will not expire until the
           CAP expires pursuant to Rule 314.c, but will expire at the time the CAP
           expires.

     (3)   Expedited review of associated Oil and Gas Development Plans pursuant
           to Rule 306.e.

     (4)   Preliminary siting approval of future Oil and Gas Locations within the CAP
           if the Operator meets the informational requirements of Rule 314.e.(11)
           and the consultation requirements of Rule 314.f.(4).A.iii.

     (5)   Approval of a CAP does not constitute approval of an Oil and Gas
           Development Plan, Drilling and Spacing Unit, Form 2A, or Form 2.
           Operators will submit all Oil and Gas Development Plans, Drilling and
           Spacing Unit applications, Form 2As, and Form 2s as ordinarily required
           by the Commission’s Rules for all locations and Wells within an approved
           CAP. However, during the course of consultation about a CAP pursuant to
           Rule 314.f.(4), a consulting entity may waive future consultations for
           subsequently submitted Oil and Gas Development Plans and other
           permits that are associated with the CAP..

c.   Duration. Approved CAPs will expire 6 years after the date the Commission
     approves the CAP, unless the Commission issues an Order to approve a
     different duration or extend the duration pursuant to Rules 314.c.(1) & (2).

     (1)   Initial Approval for Longer Duration. The Commission may approve a
           different duration based on a request in the CAP application materials.
           Such a request will include:

           A.     A reasonable and consistent development schedule for fully
                  developing minerals subject to the CAP;

           B.     A reasonable and consistent development schedule for building
                  appropriate infrastructure and a description of how that
                  infrastructure will facilitate avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating
                  potential adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
                  environment, or wildlife resources, including but not limited to
                  emissions reductions strategies;

           C.     A description of why the proposed duration is consistent with any
                  long-term land use planning documents for each Relevant Local
                  Government; and




                                                                                       128
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.    A description of any planned mitigation for adverse impacts to
                 Wildlife Resources within the boundaries of the proposed CAP.

     (2)   Extensions.

           A.    The Commission may extend the duration of the CAP if the
                 Operator submits an application pursuant to Rule 503.g.(8), and the
                 Operator demonstrates that:

                 i.      It has diligently pursued development of the mineral
                         resources within the CAP; and

                 ii.     No significant surface land use changes have occurred
                         within the CAP that would substantially alter the Cumulative
                         Impacts of the CAP on relevant resources.

           B.    The Commission may approve or deny the extension of the CAP
                 following a hearing pursuant to Rule 510. The Commission may
                 extend the CAP by any duration it determines is necessary and
                 reasonable to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public
                 health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

           C.    If the Commission approves an extension of the CAP, the Operator
                 may re-apply for another extension, subject to the procedures of
                 this Rule 314.c.(2).

d.   Submission Procedure.

     (1)   An Operator will request a pre-application meeting with the Director prior
           to submitting any CAP application. The Operator will follow the Director’s
           pre-application meeting process set forth in Rule 301.g (1).

     (2)   An Operator will hold a pre-application community meeting if an Oil and
           Gas Location may be proposed within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building
           Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center,
           or within 4,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy
           Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center in a Disproportionately
           Impacted Community. The Operator will follow the pre-application
           community meeting process set forth in Rule 301.g (2).

     (3)   One or more Operators (collectively, the “Operator”) may apply for a CAP
           at any time by submitting the application materials specified in Rule 314.e
           electronically pursuant to Rule 503.g.(8).

     (4)   The Operator will coordinate with the Director and submit all information
           necessary for the Director and Commission to fully evaluate the CAP’s
           Cumulative Impacts on public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
           and wildlife resources.



                                                                                    129
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (5)   At any time after a CAP application is submitted, the Director may request
           any information necessary to review the CAP application. The Operator
           will provide all requested information before the Director issues the
           Director’s Recommendation.

     (6)   When the Director has obtained all information necessary to fully review
           the CAP’s Cumulative Impacts on public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources, the Director will make a
           completeness determination.

     (7)   Requests to Stay Other Applications. An Operator may include a
           request for preliminary relief in its CAP application that the Commission
           put a hold on taking final action on Oil and Gas Development Plan and
           Drilling and Spacing Unit applications related to minerals subject to the
           proposed CAP while the Commission and Director conduct their review of
           the CAP application.

           A.    Such a request will include the mineral ownership information
                 required pursuant to Rule 314.e.(9).

           B.    If the CAP application includes such a request for relief, the
                 Secretary will notice the request for relief for expedited hearing
                 pursuant to Rule 503.a at the time the Director issues the
                 completeness determination.

           C.    Mineral Owners within the proposed CAP may file a petition
                 protesting the requested relief pursuant to Rule 507.

e.   Informational Requirements for Comprehensive Area Plan. At a minimum,
     the Operator will submit the following materials as components of its CAP
     application:

     (1)   Contact Information.

           A.    The name, telephone number, and e-mail address for the primary
                 contact person about the CAP for each Operator.

           B.    The name, telephone number, and e-mail address of every
                 Relevant Local Government within the CAP’s boundaries.

           C.    The name, telephone number, and e-mail address for all Local
                 Governments with land use authority within and within 2,000 feet of
                 the CAP’s boundaries.

           D.    Contact information for all persons who will receive notice pursuant
                 to Rule 314.f.(1).C.

     (2)   Fees. Payment of the full filing and service fee required by Rule 301.d.



                                                                                      130
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   Maps.

           A.      A topographic or aerial map in a suitable size and scale for the
                   Director to conduct a review showing the area proposed for the
                   CAP and proposed Oil and Gas Locations.

           B.      Maps of all publicly maintained roads, Operator-proposed haul
                   routes, and proposed access road locations.

           D.      Maps with descriptions of existing and proposed utility lines,
                   including electrical transmission lines and other electric facilities
                   such as substations.

           E.      One or more detailed maps showing all High Priority Habitats and
                   federally designated critical habitats for threatened and endangered
                   species within the CAP’s boundaries.

           F.      One or more detailed maps generally delineating existing Building
                   Units within the proposed CAP’s boundaries and specifically
                   delineating all High Occupancy Building Units and Designated
                   Outside Activity Areas.

           G.      One or more detailed maps delineating surface ownership within
                   the proposed CAP’s boundaries.

           H.      One or more detailed maps showing characteristics of known
                   Groundwater within the proposed CAP’s boundaries, including but
                   not limited to depth of the water table, depths of known
                   Groundwater formations, and characteristics of the Groundwater
                   including salinity.

           I.      One or more maps identifying areas defined as Disproportionately
                   Impacted Communities.

           J.      One or more detailed maps showing all riparian areas, Floodplains,
                   Waters of the State, and Public Water System facilities within the
                   proposed CAP boundaries.

           K.      A map showing existing, permitted, and proposed Oil and Gas
                   Locations that are within the proposed CAP boundaries but not
                   subject to the proposed CAP.

           L.      A map showing existing and permitted Industrial Facilities that are
                   within the proposed CAP boundaries.

     (4)   GIS Data. GIS polygon data to describe the CAP’s external boundaries.




                                                                                           131
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (5)    Density of Wells. The proposed subsurface density of Wells within the
            boundaries of the CAP.

     (6)    Consolidation of Oil and Gas Locations. The proposed density of Oil
            and Gas Locations within the boundaries of the CAP (reported in Oil and
            Gas Locations per section). This should include a narrative proposal, with
            maps and appropriate supporting documentation, demonstrating the
            Operator’s plan to consolidate Oil and Gas Locations to the maximum
            extent possible within the boundaries of the CAP.

     (7)    Timing of Operations. A narrative proposal, explaining the anticipated
            timing for building infrastructure and developing proposed Oil and Gas
            Locations. If operations are proposed within the Ozone Nonattainment
            Area, a discussion of the anticipated timing of those operations with
            regard to pre-production activities occurring between May 1 and
            September 30.

     (8)    Electrification and Infrastructure Planning. A narrative proposal, with
            appropriate supporting documentation that may include the maps required
            pursuant to Rule 314.e.(3), demonstrating the Operator’s plans to electrify
            its Oil and Gas Locations, consolidate infrastructure within the CAP, the
            timeline for installing any new infrastructure relative to the planned
            construction dates for the proposed Wells, and a discussion of any
            approvals necessary for the infrastructure to be built.

     (9)    Mineral Rights. A map and narrative that:

            A.     Demonstrates the location of the minerals the Operator owns or
                   has secured the consent of mineral Owners to develop; and

            B.     Describes the percentage of minerals the Operator owns or has
                   secured the consent of mineral Owners to develop.

     (10)   Evaluating and Addressing Cumulative Impacts. Unless otherwise
            specified by Rule 314.e.(11), the Operator will submit a Form 2F, CAP
            Cumulative Impacts Data Identification, that provides quantitative and
            qualitative data to evaluate incremental adverse impacts and beneficial
            contributions to each resource listed below that are likely to be caused by
            Oil and Gas Operations associated with the proposed CAP. Such
            Operations include access road construction and maintenance, flowline,
            pipeline, or utility corridor construction, Oil and Gas Location construction,
            drilling and completions operations, and production operations, including
            anticipated maintenance operations. Data will include a summary of Best
            Management Practices or other measures the Operator will employ to
            avoid, minimize, and mitigate impacts to each resource.

            A.     Air Resources. A quantitative evaluation of the projected
                   incremental increase in emissions of the pollutants listed below,



                                                                                       132
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                estimated for each year of and five years after the proposed CAP’s
                duration. The emissions estimate will include both stationary and
                mobile sources of emissions during both pre-production activities
                and emissions during full production. The evaluation will include
                any emissions reductions due to the Operator’s Plugging and
                Abandonment of existing oil and gas Wells within the CAP
                boundaries for the year when the plugging operation occurs.

                i.      NOx;

                ii.     Carbon monoxide (CO);

                iii.    Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs);

                iv.     Methane (CH4);

                v.      Ethane (C2H6);

                vi.     Carbon dioxide (CO2); and

                vii.    Nitrous oxide (N2O); and

                viii.   Particulate matter (PM2.5, PM10).

          B.    Public Health and Safety. A quantitative evaluation of incremental
                increase in emissions of the categories of pollutants listed below,
                estimated for each year of and five years after the proposed CAP’s
                duration. The emissions estimate will include both stationary and
                mobile sources of emissions during both pre-production activities
                and emissions during full production. The evaluation will include
                any emissions reductions due to the Operator’s Plugging and
                Abandonment of existing oil and gas Wells within the CAP
                boundaries for the year when the plugging operation occurs. The
                evaluation will also include a qualitative evaluation of potential
                public health and safety risks associated with these emissions.

                i.      Total hazardous air pollutants;

                ii.     Specific hazardous air pollutants with known health impacts,
                        including:

                        aa.    Benzene;

                        bb.    Toluene;

                        cc.    Ethylbenzene;

                        dd.    Xylenes;




                                                                                 133
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       ee.   n-Hexane;

                       ff.   2,2,4-Trimethylpentane (2,2,4-TMP);

                       gg.   Hydrogen sulfide (H2S);

                       hh.   Formaldehyde; and

                       ii.   Methanol.

          C.    Water Resources.

                i.     The total volume of all planned, permanent, storage across
                       all the proposed Oil and Gas Locations in the
                       CAP(measured in Barrels (bbls)) of:

                       aa.   Oil;

                       bb.   Condensate;

                       cc.   Produced water; and

                       dd.   Other volumes of stored hydrocarbons, Chemicals, or
                             E&P Waste Fluids.

                ii.    The Operator will identify and evaluate potential contaminant
                       migration pathways and likely distances from Oil and Gas
                       Locations that may be proposed within the CAP to the
                       nearest downstream riparian corridors, wetlands, and
                       surface Waters of the State. If the Operator identifies any
                       such contaminant migration pathways:

                       aa.   The Operator will provide a qualitative evaluation of
                             the baseline conditions in the riparian corridor,
                             wetland, or surface Water of the State; and

                       bb.   Identify Best Management Practices to avoid,
                             minimize, or mitigate potential adverse impacts to the
                             identified riparian corridors, wetlands, and surface
                             waters of the State.

                iii.   A qualitative evaluation of potential impacts to, and a
                       summary of Best Management Practices or other measures
                       to avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse impacts to the
                       following categories of Public Water System intakes and
                       wells within the boundaries of the CAP:




                                                                                 134
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       aa.    Surface water supply areas as defined in Rule
                              411.a.(1);

                       bb.    Public Water System supply wells that are
                              groundwater under the direct influence of surface
                              water wells or Type III wells as defined in Rule
                              411.b.(1); and

                       cc.    Any surface water Public Water System intakes within
                              15 stream miles downstream of the CAP boundaries.

                iv.    A qualitative evaluation of the potential for erosion and
                       sedimentation to adversely impact water quality, and a
                       summary of Best Management Practices or other measures
                       to avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse impacts.

                v.     The total volume of water the Operator plans to use
                       (measured in bbls), an inventory of the sources from which
                       the Operator intends to obtain the water, and estimated
                       volumes, from each of the following sources:

                       aa.    Freshwater from any Groundwater source;

                       bb.    Freshwater from any lake or stream source;

                       cc.    Freshwater from any domestic water source;

                       dd.    Reclaimed water from a municipal source; and

                       ee.    Recycled or reused E&P Waste.

                vi.    A qualitative evaluation of the Operator’s plan for recycling
                       or disposal of Flowback water and produced water, and the
                       estimated volumes (measured in bbls) of each planned
                       method.

          D.    Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife Resources. A quantitative
                evaluation of potential impacts to Wildlife Resources as a result of
                Oil and Gas Operations associated with the proposed CAP,
                including:

                i.     The approximate total number of acres of High Priority
                       Habitat within the CAP boundaries, and a breakdown (by
                       acres) of each:

                       aa.    Existing Rule 1202.c High Priority Habitat, including
                              types;




                                                                                  135
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       bb.   Existing Rule 1202.d High Priority Habitat, including
                             types; and

                       cc.   Existing Rule 309.e.(1) consultation habitats,
                             including types;

                ii.    The number of acres of new or expanded surface
                       disturbance anticipated within High Priority Habitat
                       associated with:

                       aa.   New and amended Oil and Gas Locations proposed
                             in the CAP;

                       bb.   New and expanded access roads proposed in the
                             CAP; and

                       cc.   New and expanded flowline, pipeline, and utility
                             corridors proposed in the CAP;

                iii.   The number of acres of new or expanded surface
                       disturbance within High Priority Habitat broken down by type
                       of High Priority Habitat;

                iv.    Total disturbed acreage within High Priority Habitat
                       remaining after interim Reclamation associated with the
                       proposed CAP; and

                v.     A qualitative description of any beneficial impacts beyond
                       interim or final reclamation or compensatory mitigation that
                       the Operator proposes for High Priority Habitats within the
                       CAP boundaries, and the anticipated timeline for those
                       impacts.

          E.    Biological, Ecosystem, and Soil Resources.

                i.     Total acreage of maximum new or expanded surface
                       disturbance associated with the proposed CAP;

                ii.    Total acreage disturbed after interim Reclamation associated
                       with the proposed CAP;

                iii.   A breakdown (by acreage) of the types of current land use
                       that will be disturbed by the proposed Oil and Gas
                       Operations;

                iv.    A qualitative evaluation of incremental adverse impacts to
                       topsoil as a result of surface disturbance associated with the
                       proposed CAP;



                                                                                 136
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                v.     A qualitative evaluation of incremental adverse impacts of
                       Oil and Gas Operations associated with the proposed CAP
                       on any barrens habitats and habitats identified as SWAP
                       Habitats in Colorado Parks and Wildlife State Wildlife Action
                       Plan (2015), Ch. 3, Table 4. Only the 2015 version of the
                       State Wildlife Action Plan applies; later versions do not
                       apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule
                       are available for public inspection during normal business
                       hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
                       Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO
                       80203. In addition, the State Wildlife Action Plan is available
                       online at
                       https://cpw.widen.net/s/gnjwdl87fn/co_swap_fullversion; and

                vi.    A quantitative evaluation of any Reclamation activities
                       associated with the Plugging and Abandonment of existing
                       Wells or closure of existing Oil and Gas Locations within the
                       proposed CAP’s boundaries.

          F.    Public Welfare. A qualitative or quantitative evaluation of
                incremental adverse impacts to public welfare as a result of Oil and
                Gas Operations associated with the proposed CAP, that addresses
                each of the following potential sources of impacts to public welfare,
                over both a short-term and long-term timeframe. The evaluation will
                include any compensatory or other offset beneficial impacts.

                i.     Traffic;

                ii.    Noise;

                iii.   Light;

                iv.    Odor;

                v.     Dust; and

                vi.    Recreation and scenic values.

          G.    Disproportionately Impacted Communities. The community and
                census block groups of any Disproportionately Impacted
                Communities within the CAP boundaries. For each Oil and Gas
                Location, or any access road, flowline, pipeline, or utility corridor
                proposed in or within 2,000 feet of a Disproportionately Impacted
                Community, the Operator will provide a narrative to describe known
                past, present, and reasonably foreseeable adverse environmental
                impacts in each Disproportionately Impacted Community, and a
                summary describing how the Operator intends to avoid, minimize,




                                                                                  137
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                or mitigate additional adverse Cumulative Impacts through the
                CAP’s landscape-level planning.

          H.    NOx Intensity Target for Proposed Comprehensive Area Plans
                Within the Ozone Nonattainment Area.

                i.    Operators Subject to the NOx Intensity Target.

                      aa.    The Operator will provide the following information, as
                             submitted in its most recent interim report pursuant to
                             AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.4, as
                             incorporated in Rule 301.h:

                             1.    NOx intensity, calculated pursuant to AQCC
                                   Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.2.a, as
                                   incorporated in Rule 301.h; and

                             2.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                                   exceeded, or is below its NOx Intensity Target.

                             3.    If any data pertaining to an Operator’s NOx
                                   Intensity Target is corrected and submitted to
                                   CDPHE, the same corrected data will be
                                   submitted to the Commission within 10 days of
                                   its submission to CDPHE.

                      bb.    The Operator will provide the following information, as
                             submitted in its most recent annual report pursuant to
                             AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B, as incorporated
                             in Rule 301.h:

                             1.    NOx intensity, calculated pursuant to AQCC
                                   Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.2.a , as
                                   incorporated in Rule 301.h; and

                             2.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                                   exceeded, or is below its NOx Intensity Target.

                             3.    If any data pertaining to an Operator’s NOx
                                   Intensity Target is corrected and submitted to
                                   CDPHE, the same corrected data will be
                                   submitted to the Commission within 10 days of
                                   its submission to CDPHE.

                ii.   Operators Not Subject to the NOx Intensity Target. For
                      Operators not subject to the NOx Intensity Target pursuant
                      to AQCC Regulation No. 7, as incorporated in Rule 301.h,




                                                                                138
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       for the preceding May 1 through September 30 period, the
                       following information:

                       aa.    A statement acknowledging that the operator will
                              comply with Enhanced Systems and Practices for all
                              activities included in the CAP; and

                       bb.    A list of additional operational practices to be utilized
                              by the operator to reduce emissions of NOx.

          I.    Impacts to Climate - Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets.

                i.     An Operator will provide the following information as
                       submitted in its most recent annual report required by AQCC
                       Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B, as incorporated in Rule 301.h:

                       aa.    A sum of the operator’s monthly carbon dioxide (CO2),
                              methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions for
                              the calendar year pursuant to AQCC Regulation No.
                              7, Part B.V.B.1.f, as incorporated in Rule 301.h;

                       bb.    The total greenhouse gas emissions as carbon
                              dioxide equivalent (CO2e);

                       cc.    The previous calendar year production of
                              hydrocarbon liquids and natural gas summed for all of
                              the operator’s well production facilities AQCC
                              Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B.1.d, as incorporated in
                              Rule 301.h;

                       dd.    The calculated Greenhouse Gas Intensity; and

                       ee.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                              exceeded, or is below its Greenhouse Gas Intensity
                              Targets.

                iii.   If the Operator is new to market, as defined by AQCC
                       Regulation No. 7, Part B.VIII.A.23, as incorporated in Rule
                       301.h, the Operator will instead indicate its status as a new
                       to market Operator.

          J.    Beneficial Impacts. A quantitative evaluation of any Reclamation
                activities associated with the Plugging and Abandonment of
                existing Wells or closure of existing Oil and Gas Locations within
                the proposed CAP’s boundaries; including:

                i.     The number of existing Wells that are planned to be Plugged
                       and Abandoned as part of this CAP:



                                                                                    139
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       aa.   The API number of each Well; and

                       bb.   The anticipated year of Plugging and Abandonment
                             operations for each Well;

                ii.    The number of existing Oil and Gas Locations that are
                       planned to be closed and undergo final Reclamation as part
                       of this CAP:

                       aa.   The Location ID number of each Oil and Gas
                             Location; and

                       bb.   The anticipated year of final Reclamation operations;

                iii.   The total number of acres that are planned to be reclaimed
                       through the closing of existing Oil and Gas Locations;

                iv.    The total number of existing Pits and other non-Well Oil and
                       Gas Facilities that are planned to be closed and undergo
                       final Reclamation as part of this CAP:

                       aa.   The Facility ID number of each Pit or Facility; and

                       bb.   The anticipated year of final Reclamation operations;

                v.     The total number of tanks, and their total storage volume,
                       planned to be removed from existing Oil and Gas Locations
                       as part of this CAP, including:

                       aa.   Oil tanks;

                       bb.   Condensate tanks; and

                       cc.   Produced water tanks; and

                vi.    A qualitative description of any operations or activities
                       resulting in beneficial impacts beyond those listed above that
                       the Operator plans to conduct as part of this CAP, and the
                       anticipated scope, timeline, and duration of those activities.

          K.    Comprehensive Area Plan Cumulative Impacts Analysis. On its
                Form 2F, the Operator will attach a narrative describing the current
                baseline conditions of existing and reasonably foreseeable future
                sources of impacts and potential receptors within the CAP, explain
                the potential incremental impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas
                Operations as identified in the Form 2F data, and describe how the
                incremental impacts will contribute to Cumulative Impacts within the
                CAP boundaries and beyond the CAP boundaries where




                                                                                   140
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  appropriate. The summary will be written in easily understandable
                  plain language and will include:

                  i.      A description of all publicly maintained roads as indicated on
                          maps pursuant to Rule 314.e.(3).B, including general usage
                          and traffic type;

                  ii.     A description of all wildlife habitats identified on maps
                          pursuant to Rule 314.e.(3).E. Operators will rely upon best
                          available information when assessing wildlife habitat within
                          the CAP’s boundaries and may provide supplemental site-
                          specific published reports or wildlife surveys;

                  iii.    A general description of existing neighborhoods, including
                          Disproportionately Impacted Communities, as indicated on
                          maps pursuant to Rule 314.e.(3).F & K;

                  iv.     A description of Groundwater resources, including quantity
                          and quality, as indicated on maps pursuant to Rule
                          314.e.(3).H;

                  v.      A description of surface water resources, including quantity
                          and quality, as indicated on maps pursuant to Rule
                          314.e.(3).J;

                  vi.     A description of existing and unbuilt permitted Oil and Gas
                          Locations as indicated on maps pursuant to Rule
                          314.e.(3).K;

                  vii.    A description of existing and unbuilt permitted Industrial
                          Facilities as indicated on maps pursuant to Rule 314.e.(3).L,
                          including summaries of any reported emissions, spills or
                          other adverse impacts;

                  viii.   A description of any other current or historic significant
                          pollution sources or sensitive receptors;

                  ix.     A summary describing the incremental impacts identified in
                          the Form 2F data fields; and

                  x.      An evaluation summarizing, in plain language, how the
                          incremental impacts anticipated by the CAP will contribute to
                          Cumulative Impacts within the CAP boundaries and beyond
                          the CAP boundaries where significant.

     (11)   Preliminary Siting Approval Information Requirements.




                                                                                       141
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          A.    An Operator seeking preliminary siting approval through a CAP
                pursuant to Rule 314.b.(4) will submit the following information:

                i.     For each proposed future Oil and Gas Location within the
                       CAP, an alternative location analysis that meets the criteria
                       of Rule 304.b.(2).B;

                ii.    For each proposed future Oil and Gas Location within the
                       CAP, the information required by Rules 304.b.(3), (4), (7), &
                       (8);

                iii.   For each proposed future Oil and Gas Location within the
                       CAP, a Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant to Rules
                       304.b.(2).D and 315.b;

                iv.    A Form 2B, Cumulative Impacts Data Identification, for each
                       Oil and Gas Development Plan proposed within the CAP;
                       and

                v.     Either:

                       aa.       The applicable long-term or comprehensive land use
                                 plan for each Local Government within the CAP, that
                                 identifies current and planned future land uses for all
                                 areas within the CAP for the proposed full duration of
                                 the CAP; or

                       bb.       Certification that each Relevant Local Government
                                 agrees with each proposed Oil and Gas Location
                                 within its boundaries.

          B.    An Operator seeking preliminary siting approval for all of its
                proposed new and amended Oil and Gas Locations in its CAP
                application is exempt from submitting the Form 2F, CAP
                Incremental Impact Data Identification, unless the Director
                determines that any Form 2B(s) submitted pursuant to Rule
                314.e.(11).A.iv is insufficient to conduct a Cumulative Impacts
                analysis for the CAP application.

          C.    If an Operator receives preliminary siting approval, the Operator
                need not submit the following information as part of the subsequent
                Oil and Gas Development Plan or Form 2A application for any
                associated Oil and Gas Development Plan, unless otherwise
                required pursuant to Rule 314.e.(11).D:.

                i.     Alternative location analysis pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2);

                ii.    The information required by Rules 304.b.(3), (4), (7), & (8);



                                                                                     142
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iii.   Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant to Rules 304.b.(2).D
                       and 315.b;

                iv.    Form 2B, Cumulative Impacts Data Identification pursuant to
                       Rule 315.a.(2).

          D.    If an Operator receives preliminary siting approval, the Operator will
                submit a description of any changes from between the time the
                CAP was approved and the time the Form 2A is submitted as an
                attachment to the Form 2A application for any subsequent Oil and
                Gas Development Plan application. The description will include, but
                is not limited to:

                i.     Changes to the current surrounding land use, or future land
                       use changes contemplated in a Local Government Planning
                       document;

                ii.    Changes in natural conditions such as migration of river
                       systems or floodplains, changes in topography, or significant
                       changes in vegetation cover type or density;

                iii.   Changes to High Priority Habitat and Disproportionately
                       Impacted Community designations;

                iv.    Advances in available industry technology;

                v.     Changes in pipeline capacity or availability;

                vi.    Changes in the Operator’s siting or operational plans;

                vii.   Other changes that result in a discrepancy between the data
                       approved in the CAP and the data submitted in the Oil and
                       Gas Development Plan.

          E.    If any changes are identified pursuant to Rule 314.e.(11).C, the
                Director may require the Operator submit any of the information
                listed in Rule 314.e.(11).D.i-iv with its Oil and Gas Development
                Plan.

          F.    Preliminary siting approval pursuant to Rule 314 does not
                guarantee that the Commission will ultimately approve any
                associated Form 2As within an approved CAP.

          G.    An Operator seeking preliminary siting approval pursuant to Rule
                314.b.(4) will consult with the Director during the course of the
                Director’s review of the CAP application to determine whether the
                informational requirements of Rule 304.b are substantially satisfied
                by the information contained in the CAP.



                                                                                    143
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            H.    An Operator seeking preliminary siting approval pursuant to Rule
                  314.b.(4) will provide notice of the CAP application to Building Unit
                  and High Occupancy Building Unit owners and tenants within 1/2
                  mile of each proposed Oil and Gas Location within 7 days of
                  submitting the CAP application.

     (12)   Completeness Certification. A certification that the Operator has
            submitted all materials required by this Rule 314.e.

f.   Public Review Process.

     (1)    Notice.

            A.    When the Director issues a completeness determination pursuant
                  to Rule 314.d.(4), the Director will post the CAP application and all
                  supporting materials to the Commission’s website. The website
                  posting will provide:

                  i.     The date by which public comments must be received to be
                         considered; and

                  ii.    The mechanism for the public to provide comments.

            B.    Confidentiality. If the Operator designates any portion of its CAP
                  application as “confidential” pursuant to Rule 223, then the Director
                  will post only the redacted version when the CAP is posted to the
                  Commission’s website.

            C.    Within 7 days of the Director issuing the completeness
                  determination, the Operator will provide notice to the following:

                  i.     All Owners of minerals that would be developed under the
                         CAP;

                  ii.    All Surface Owners of the Operator’s proposed Oil and Gas
                         Locations;

                  iii.   All Local Governments within the CAP’s boundaries;

                  iv.    All Local Governments within 2,000 feet of the CAP’s
                         boundaries;

                  v.     All Residential Building Units within 1/2 mile of the
                         Operator’s proposed Oil and Gas Locations;

                  vi.    All Residential Building Units in a Disproportionately
                         Impacted Community that are within 4,000 feet of the
                         Operator’s proposed Oil and Gas Locations;




                                                                                      144
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                vii.    All attendees of the pre-application community meeting who
                        provided an electronic mail address pursuant to Rule
                        301.g.(2).B.iii;

                viii.   CDPHE;

                ix.     CPW;

                x.      The Colorado State Land Board (if it owns any minerals or
                        surface estate within the CAP);

                xi.     The appropriate federal agency (if any federal entity owns
                        minerals or surface estate within the CAP);

                xii.    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe (if the CAP involves any
                        minerals within the exterior boundary of the Tribe’s
                        reservation where both the surface and oil and gas estates
                        are owned in fee by persons or entities other than the Tribe);

                xiii.   All High Occupancy Building Units, Child Care Centers, and
                        the School Governing Body of any Schools located within
                        the CAP’s boundaries; and

                xiv.    All Public Water Systems that operate facilities within the
                        CAP’s boundaries.

           D.   Procedure for Providing Notice. The Operator will provide notice
                required by Rule 314.f.(1).C by one of the following mechanisms:

                i.      Hand delivery, with confirmation of receipt;

                ii.     Certified mail, return-receipt requested;

                iii.    Electronic mail, with electronic receipt confirmation; or

                iv.     By other delivery service with receipt confirmation.

     (2)   Comments.

           A.   The Director will only consider comments received within 60 days
                from the date the CAP is posted on the Commission’s website.

           B.   The Director will post on the Commission’s website all comments
                received unless they contain confidential information.

           C.   Upon request or by the Director’s own initiative, the Director may
                extend the comment period by any duration determined to be
                reasonable in order to obtain relevant public input.




                                                                                      145
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   Public Meeting. An Operator will hold at least 1 informational meeting
           with all persons or entities entitled to notice pursuant to Rule 314.f.(1).C.

           A.     Timing of Meeting. The informational meeting will be held during
                  the open public comment period, with sufficient time for the
                  attendees to make comment on the CAP application based on
                  information received. The date, time, type, and location of the
                  meeting, will be determined with input from the Community Liaison
                  and be held at a location reasonable for most invitees to attend.

           B.     Accommodation. The Operator will facilitate coordination of child
                  care, transportation, and translation interpretation services upon
                  request or as indicated by the Community Liaison.

           C.     Language Access. All written and oral information provided at a
                  public meeting will also be provided in all languages spoken by 5%
                  or more of the population in any census block groups within or
                  adjacent to the proposed CAP.

           D.     Content of Meeting. The Operator will provide at a minimum the
                  following information:

                  i.     The Operator’s contact information including its electronic
                         mail address, phone number, and physical address(es) to
                         which the public may direct questions and comments;

                  ii.    An opportunity for attendees to provide an electronic mail
                         address in order to receive written correspondence from the
                         Operator or Commission regarding the proposed CAP
                         application;

                  iii.   The Commission’s website address and main telephone
                         number, and information about how attendees may make
                         public comments on the CAP application;

                  iv.    The schedule of operations;

                  v.     Maps and figures of the CAP area boundary and all Oil and
                         Gas Locations subject to the CAP; and

                  vi.    Anticipated Best Management Practices to be employed
                         during the term of the CAP to minimize adverse
                         environmental impacts on any air, water, soil, or Biological
                         Resource resulting from Oil and Gas Operations.

           E.     The Operator will provide to the Director a written summary of the
                  meeting detailing:




                                                                                      146
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 i.     The date, time, location, and format of the meeting;

                 ii.    The number of attendees and description of any
                        accommodations made to facilitate their participation, such
                        as child care, transportation, or translation and interpretation
                        services;

                 iii.   Any comments voiced by the attendees in support or
                        opposition and the Operator’s responses to each comment;
                        and

                 iv.    Any revisions the Operator intends to make to the CAP
                        application as a result of the meeting.



     (4)   Consultation. Consultation about a CAP will allow the consulting entities
           to provide input about the Cumulative Impacts associated with the CAP,
           timing of operations, consolidation of infrastructure, and conveying the
           right of Operatorship in the area of the CAP. Consultation about a CAP is
           intended to be limited to these topics, and is not a replacement for
           consultation otherwise required for individual Oil and Gas Development
           Plans.

           A.    Local Governments.

                 i.     During the public comment period, the Director will engage
                        in a Formal Consultation Process with all Local
                        Governments within the CAP and Local Governments within
                        2,000 feet of the CAP’s boundaries, unless any Local
                        Government waives its right to consultation.

                 ii.    The Local Government Formal Consultation Process will
                        include any relevant topics identified by the Local
                        Government, but will address at least:

                        aa.    The current land use of all areas within the CAP’s
                               boundaries, and all future planned land uses of areas
                               within the CAP’s boundaries over the anticipated
                               duration of the CAP; and

                        bb.    Cumulative traffic impacts.

                 iii.   If an Operator seeks preliminary siting approval pursuant to
                        Rule 314.b.(4), the Formal Consultation Process will address
                        whether the proposed future Oil and Gas Locations are
                        consistent with the long-term or comprehensive land use




                                                                                    147
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        plan for all Local Governments within the CAP’s boundaries
                        for the duration of the CAP.

           B.    CPW.

                 i.     During the public comment period, the Director will engage
                        in a Formal Consultation Process with CPW, unless CPW
                        waives its right to consultation.

                 ii.    The Formal Consultation Process with CPW may address
                        any relevant topic, but will address the proposed CAP’s
                        Cumulative Impacts on Wildlife Resources and measures to
                        avoid, minimize, and mitigate those impacts.

           C.    CDPHE.

                 i.     During the public comment period, the Director will engage
                        in a Formal Consultation Process with CDPHE, unless
                        CDPHE waives its right to consultation.

                 ii.    The Formal Consultation Process with CDPHE may address
                        any relevant topic, but will address the proposed CAP’s
                        Cumulative Impacts on public health and the environment,
                        including air quality, water quality, Public Water System
                        supplies, and E&P Waste disposal. The consultation will also
                        address the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target and the
                        Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets statuses, if applicable.

           D.    Federal Government. For proposed CAPs that include federally-
                 owned or managed surface or mineral estate, the Director will
                 engage in a Formal Consultation Process with the applicable
                 federal agency or agencies, unless the agency or agencies waives
                 their right to consultation.

g.   Director’s Recommendation on the Comprehensive Area Plan.

     (1)   When the Director May Issue a Recommendation. The Director will not
           make a Recommendation to the Commission about whether to approve or
           deny any CAP until after:

           A.    The Director has fully reviewed the CAP and all supporting
                 application materials and has obtained all information necessary to
                 evaluate the proposed operations and their potential Cumulative
                 Impacts on public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
                 wildlife resources.




                                                                                 148
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The public comment period has ended, including conducting a
                 public meeting pursuant to Rule 314.f.(3), and the Director has
                 considered all substantive public comments received.

           C.    The Director has completed the Formal Consultation Process with
                 all Local Governments identified in Rule 314.f.(4).A, CPW, CDPHE,
                 and any federal agency identified in Rule 314.f.(4).D, unless any
                 such entity waives its right to consultation.

     (2)   Director’s Recommendation.

           A.    Approval. The Director may Recommend that the Commission
                 approve a CAP that:

                 i.     Complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules;
                        and

                 ii.    Protects and minimizes adverse cumulative impacts to public
                        health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
                        resources.

           B.    Denial. If the Director determines that a CAP does not meet the
                 requirements of Rule 314, or provide necessary and reasonable
                 protections for, or minimize adverse impacts to, public health,
                 safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, or fails to
                 meet the requirements of the Commission’s Rules, the Director
                 may Recommend that the Commission deny the CAP.

     (3)   Notice of Director’s Recommendation. Upon issuing the Director’s
           Recommendation, the Director will post the written basis for the Director’s
           Recommendation on the Commission’s website, and notify the following
           persons electronically in a manner determined by the Director:

           A.    The Operator;

           B.    All Local Governments within the CAP;

           C.    Local Governments within 2,000 feet of the CAP’s boundaries;

           D.    CDPHE;

           E.    CPW;

           F.    The Colorado State Land Board (if it owns any minerals or surface
                 estate within the CAP);

           G.    The appropriate federal agency (if any federal entity owns minerals
                 or surface estate within the CAP);




                                                                                    149
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           H.    Any person or entity that participated in a public meeting pursuant
                 to Rule 314.f.(3) and provided an electronic mail address; and

           I.    Any person or entity that has provided a comment electronically
                 pursuant to Rule 512.

     (4)   Petition for Review of the Director’s Recommendation. CPW, CDPHE,
           any Local Government within the CAP or Local Governments within 2,000
           feet of the CAP’s boundaries, and any Owners of minerals within the
           boundaries of the CAP may petition the Commission to review the
           Director’s Recommendation. Petitions of the Director’s Recommendation
           will comply with Rule 507.

     (5)   If the Director does not issue a Recommendation within 180 days of a
           completeness determination pursuant to Rule 314.d.(4), the Operator may
           move for a hearing before the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or
           Hearing Officer. At such hearing, the Director will provide an explanation
           of the status of the Director’s review of the CAP and any reasons for
           delay.

h.   Commission’s Consideration of a Comprehensive Area Plan.

     (1)   If the Director recommends approval of a CAP, the CAP will be heard by
           the Commission pursuant to Rules 509 & 510.

     (2)   If the Director recommends the denial of the CAP, the Operator may
           petition the Director’s Recommendation to the Commission. The petition
           will be filed and heard pursuant to Rules 507 & 510.

     (3)   Approval. The Commission may approve a CAP that complies with all
           requirements of the Commission’s Rules and protects and minimizes
           adverse Cumulative Impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources..

     (4)   Denial. If the Commission determines that a CAP does not provide
           necessary and reasonable protections for, or minimize adverse impacts to,
           public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, or
           fails to meet the requirements of the Commission’s Rules, the
           Commission may deny the CAP. The Commission will identify in the
           record the basis for the denial.

     (5)   Stay. If the Commission determines that additional information or analysis
           is necessary for it to make a decision to approve or deny a CAP, it will
           issue an order staying consideration of the CAP for further consideration
           until the Director or Operator can provide the Commission with the
           additional information or analysis necessary to consider the CAP. The
           Commission may set or extend reasonable deadlines for the Director or
           Operator to provide additional information or analysis to the Commission.



                                                                                   150
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (6)   Final Agency Action. The Commission’s decision to approve or deny a
             CAP will constitute final agency action. The Commission’s decision to stay
             a CAP for further consideration will not constitute final agency action.

       (7)   Changes to an Approved CAP. Changes to an approved CAP will be
             approved or denied by the Commission, after appropriate notice,
             consultation pursuant to Rule 314.f.(4) and Director review. The Director
             will have discretion to determine appropriate notice and consultation
             requirements based on the scale and nature of the changes.

315.   CUMULATIVE IMPACTS DATA AND ANALYSIS

a.     Cumulative Impacts Data Evaluation Repository.

       (1)   Purpose. This Rule 315.a is intended to provide data for the
             Commission’s cumulative impacts data evaluation repository (“CIDER”)
             and to allow the Commission to evaluate potential Cumulative Impacts
             related to the proposed Oil and Gas Locations submitted in an Oil and
             Gas Development Plan, operations proposed in a Form 2 that are not
             subject to an Oil and Gas Development Plan, or operations proposed in a
             CAP. The Commission intends to use the data, in cooperation with
             CDPHE and other partners, to undertake basin-wide, statewide, and other
             studies to evaluate and address Cumulative Impacts to relevant resources
             at appropriate scales pursuant to Rules 315 and 904.

       (2)   Resource Impacts. The Operator will submit a Form 2B, Cumulative
             Impacts Data Identification that provides quantitative and qualitative data
             to evaluate incremental adverse and beneficial contributions to Cumulative
             Impacts caused by the proposed Oil and Gas Operations, including any
             measures the Operator will take to avoid, minimize, or mitigate any
             adverse impacts:

             A.    Air Resources and Impacts to Climate. A quantitative evaluation
                   of the incremental change in the pollutants listed below, estimated
                   for the proposed Oil and Gas Operations. The emissions estimates
                   will include both stationary and mobile sources of emissions owned
                   or controlled by the Operator, as well as reasonably foreseeable
                   truck traffic, during all pre-production activities, and both stationary
                   and mobile sources of emissions owned or controlled by the
                   Operator, as well as reasonably foreseeable truck traffic, for the
                   first year of production based on all proposed wells and equipment.

                   i.     NOx;

                   ii.    Carbon monoxide (CO);

                   iii.   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs);




                                                                                       151
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iv.     Methane (CH4);

                v.      Ethane (C2H6);

                vi.     Carbon dioxide (CO2);

                vii.    Nitrous oxide (N2O); and

                viii.   Particulate matter (PM2.5, PM10).

          B.    Public Health. An evaluation of incremental adverse impacts to
                public health due to the proposed Oil and Gas Operations,
                including:

                i.      A quantitative evaluation of the incremental increase in total
                        hazardous air pollutant emissions estimated for the entire
                        proposed Oil and Gas Operations. The emissions estimates
                        will include both stationary and mobile sources of emissions
                        owned or controlled by the Operator during all pre-
                        production activities, and both stationary and mobile sources
                        of emissions owned or controlled by the Operator for the first
                        year of production based on all proposed wells and
                        equipment.

                ii.     A quantitative evaluation of the incremental increase in
                        specific hazardous air pollutant emissions with known health
                        impacts, estimated for the entire proposed Oil and Gas
                        Operations. The emissions estimates will include both
                        stationary and mobile sources of emissions owned or
                        controlled by the Operator during all pre-production
                        activities, and both stationary and mobile sources of
                        emissions owned or controlled by the Operator for the first
                        year of production based on all proposed wells and
                        equipment:

                        aa.   Benzene;

                        bb.   Toluene;

                        cc.   Ethylbenzene;

                        dd.   Xylenes;

                        ee.   n-Hexane;

                        ff.   2,2,4-Trimethylpentane (2,2,4-TMP);

                        gg.   Hydrogen sulfide (H2S);




                                                                                  152
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       hh.    Formaldehyde; and

                       ii.    Methanol.

                iii.   A qualitative evaluation of any potential acute or chronic,
                       short- or long-term incremental impacts to public health as a
                       result of such emissions.

                iv.    Whether the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan
                       includes any proposed Oil and Gas Locations or Wells within
                       a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

                v.     An affirmation that the operator will not use PFAS Chemicals
                       or any of the chemical additives prohibited by Rule 437 in
                       their Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid.

          C.    Water Resources.

                i.     The total planned on-location storage volume (measured in
                       Barrels (bbls)) of:

                       aa.    Oil;

                       bb.    Condensate;

                       cc.    Produced water; and

                       dd.    Other volumes of stored hydrocarbons, Chemicals, or
                              E&P Waste Fluids.

                ii.    An evaluation and identification of potential contaminant
                       migration pathways and likely distances from the proposed
                       Oil and Gas Locations or Wells to the nearest downstream
                       riparian corridors, wetlands, and surface Waters of the State.
                       If the Operator identifies any such contaminant migration
                       pathways, the Operator will provide a qualitative evaluation
                       of the baseline conditions in, and potential impacts to, the
                       riparian corridor, wetland, or surface Water of the State.

                iii.   A qualitative evaluation of potential impact to any Public
                       Water System intake.

                iv.    A quantitative evaluation of the anticipated volume of all
                       surface water and Groundwater to be used, including the
                       percentage of the total volume that is anticipated to be
                       reused or recycled water, consistent with Rules 304.c.(18).A
                       & C.




                                                                                    153
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          D.    Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife Resources and Ecosystems. A
                quantitative or, where quantitative information is not reasonably
                available, a qualitative evaluation of potential impacts to Wildlife
                Resources as a result of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations,
                including:

                i.     List of High Priority Habitats within the Area of Evaluation, as
                       set forth in Rule 315.b.(2).A.

                ii.    Total acreage of new or expanded surface disturbance
                       associated with the proposed Oil and Gas Operations,
                       including:

                       aa.    A breakdown (by acreage) of the types of current land
                              use;

                       bb.    The number of acres of new or expanded surface
                              disturbance within High Priority Habitat; and

                       cc.    A brief narrative description regarding the Location’s
                              or Well’s High Priority Habitat disturbance.

                iii.   A brief qualitative evaluation of the potential direct and
                       indirect impacts to other wildlife species and habitats within
                       the Area of Evaluation, including impacts from surface
                       disturbance, pre-production and production, noise, and light.

          E.    Biological and Soil Resources.

                i.     A quantitative or, where quantitative information is not
                       reasonably available, a qualitative evaluation of incremental
                       adverse or beneficial impacts to topsoil within the Area of
                       Evaluation, as set forth in Rule 315.b.(2).A, of the Working
                       Pad Surface of the proposed Oil and Gas Location as a
                       result of surface disturbance associated with the proposed
                       Oil and Gas Operations; and

                ii.    A quantitative evaluation of incremental adverse or beneficial
                       impacts on any barrens habitats and habitats identified as
                       SWAP Habitats in Colorado Parks and Wildlife State Wildlife
                       Action Plan (2015), Ch. 3, Table 4, as incorporated in Rule
                       314.e.(10).E.v, within the Area of Evaluation, as set forth in
                       Rule 315.b.(2).A, of the Working Pad Surface of the
                       proposed Oil and Gas Location as a result of the proposed
                       Oil and Gas Operations. The evaluation will also include a
                       summary of proposed Best Management Practices to avoid,
                       mitigate, or offset incremental impacts to Biological
                       Resources.



                                                                                   154
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.     Public Welfare. A quantitative evaluation, or a qualitative
                  evaluation where quantitative information is not reasonably
                  available, of incremental adverse or beneficial impacts to public
                  welfare as a result of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations, that
                  addresses each of the following potential sources of impacts to
                  public welfare, over both a short-term and long-term timeframe:

                  i.     Noise;

                  ii.    Light;

                  iii.   Odor;

                  iv.    Dust; and

                  v.     Recreation and scenic values.

     (3)   Surrounding Oil and Gas Surface Disturbance and Impacts. On the
           Form 2B, the Operator will identify Oil and Gas Locations within the Area
           of Evaluation, as set forth in Rule 315.b.(2).A, of each of the proposed Oil
           and Gas Locations or Wells associated with the proposed Oil and Gas
           Operations. Specifically, on the Form 2B, the Operator will identify:

           A.     The total number of active, permitted, and proposed Oil and Gas
                  Locations within the Area of Evaluation of each of the proposed Oil
                  and Gas Locations or Wells, including those permitted by the
                  Relevant Local Government, even if a permit application has not
                  yet been submitted to the Commission for the same location.

           B.     The cumulative total acreage that is currently disturbed for active
                  Oil and Gas Locations and the acreage planned to be disturbed to
                  construct the proposed Oil and Gas Locations or Wells within the
                  Area of Evaluation for the proposed Oil and Gas Operations, and
                  the source(s) used to calculate the total acreage, which may
                  include:

                  i.     Any relevant field observation or measurements;

                  ii.    Any high resolution publicly accessible aerial imagery taken
                         within the last 12 months; or

                  iii.   The Commission’s electronic location files.

           C.     The total number of oil and gas Wells within the Area of Evaluation,
                  as set forth in Rule 315.b.(2).A, of each of the proposed Oil and
                  Gas Locations or Wells that are:

                  i.     Active;



                                                                                      155
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  ii.    Permitted but not drilled;

                  iii.   Proposed; and

                  iv.    Plugged and Abandoned.

           D.     The total volume of produced hydrocarbon and produced water
                  storage that exists and is proposed at the active and proposed Oil
                  and Gas Locations within the Area of Evaluation, as set forth in
                  Rule 315.b.(2).A, of each of the proposed Oil and Gas Locations or
                  Wells associated with the proposed Oil and Gas Operations, and
                  the sources used to calculate the storage volumes.

     (4)   Other Surface and Industrial Impacts. On the Form 2B, the Operator
           will identify existing surface impacts and Industrial Facilities within the
           Area of Evaluation, as set forth in Rule 315.b.(2).A, for the proposed Oil
           and Gas Locations or Wells associated with the proposed Oil and Gas
           Operations, including:

           A.     A map or aerial photo, if necessary, showing the proposed Oil and
                  Gas Location(s), roads, and the Industrial Facilities; and

           B.     A general description of the use or operation of the Industrial
                  Facilities.

     (5)   Beneficial Impacts. On the Form 2B, the Operator will identify past,
           present, and reasonably foreseeable future beneficial impacts arising from
           the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan or other Oil and Gas
           Operations.

           A.     The Well name, number, and API number of any Wells to be
                  plugged and abandoned as part of the proposed Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan or other Oil and Gas Operations, and whether
                  such Wells are located within a Disproportionately Impacted
                  Community or High Priority Habitat. The Operator will also include:

                  i.     The anticipated year the Well will be plugged; and

                  ii.    An indication of whether the Well is, or will be, placed on the
                         Operator’s Plugging List or designated as an Out of Service
                         Well.

           B.     The Location name, number, and identification number of any Oil
                  and Gas Location to be decommissioned and undergo final
                  reclamation as part of the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan
                  or other Oil and Gas Operations, and whether such Locations are
                  located within a Disproportionately Impacted Community or High
                  Priority Habitat.



                                                                                     156
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.    The number of acres planned to be reclaimed through the closing
                 any Oil and Gas Location to be decommissioned and undergo final
                 reclamation as part of the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan
                 or other Oil and Gas Operations.

           D.    The number of Tanks planned to be removed from existing Oil and
                 Gas Locations as part of the proposed Oil and Gas Development
                 Plan or other Oil and Gas Operations, whether such Tanks were
                 used to contain produced hydrocarbons or produced water, and
                 whether such Tanks are located within a Disproportionately
                 Impacted Community or High Priority Habitat.

     (6)   NOx and Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets. On the Form 2B, the
           Operator will indicate whether it has met or exceeded its NOx and
           Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets.

           A.    NOx Intensity Target Status. Operators will provide NOx Intensity
                 Target information as set forth in Rule 316.a.(1).

           B.    Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets Status.

                 i.    With its Oil and Gas Development Plan application or Form 2
                       pursuant to Rule 308.a, an Operator will provide the
                       following information, as submitted in its most recent annual
                       report required by AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B, as
                       incorporated in Rule 301.h:

                       aa.    A sum of the operator’s monthly carbon dioxide (CO2),
                              methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions for
                              the calendar year pursuant to AQCC Regulation No.
                              7, Part B.V.B.1.f, as incorporated in Rule 301.h;

                       bb.    The total greenhouse gas emissions as carbon
                              dioxide equivalent (CO2e);

                       cc.    The previous calendar year production of
                              hydrocarbon liquids and natural gas summed for all of
                              the operator’s well production facilities pursuant to
                              AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.V.B.1.d, as
                              incorporated in Rule 301.h;

                       dd.    The calculated Greenhouse Gas Intensity; and

                       ee.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                              exceeded, or is below its Greenhouse Gas Intensity
                              Targets.




                                                                                157
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        ff.    New to market operators, as defined by AQCC
                               Regulation No. 7, Part B.VIII.A.23, as incorporated in
                               Rule 301.h, will instead indicate their status as a new
                               to market operator.

     (7)   Plain Language Summary. The Operator will submit a plain language
           summary of the Form 2B prepared pursuant to Rule 315.a.(2)–(6)
           explaining the potential incremental impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas
           Operations in easily understandable terms.

b.   Cumulative Impacts Analysis.

     (1)   Applicability. This Rule 315 applies to:

           A.    Any proposed Oil and Gas Location pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2);

           B.    A Form 2 identified pursuant to Rule 308.c.(2).B;

           C.    Subsequent operations on existing wells pursuant to Rule
                 312.d.(3); and

           D.    Other matters where the Director determines that a Cumulative
                 Impacts analysis is necessary and reasonable to protect public
                 health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, or
                 address Cumulative Impacts.

     (2)   Cumulative Impacts Analysis. An Operator will submit a Cumulative
           Impacts analysis to illustrate how the Operator has evaluated Cumulative
           Impacts for the operation of the Oil and Gas Location(s) or Well(s) to
           resources identified in this Rule 315.b. Such analysis will include:

           A.    Area of Evaluation.

                 i.     Default Areas of Evaluation.

                        aa.    Water Resources. The Operator will evaluate and
                               analyze potential impacts to water resources pursuant
                               to Rule 315.b.(2).E.ii within a 2.5 mile radius from the
                               Working Pad Surface of the Oil and Gas Location(s).
                               If the Working Pad Surface of the Oil and Gas
                               Location(s) is within a Surface Water Supply Area
                               pursuant to Rule 411.a.(1), the Area of Evaluation for
                               water resources will also extend 5 miles downstream.

                        bb.    All Other Resources. The Operator will evaluate and
                               analyze potential impacts for all other resources
                               described in Rules 315.b.(2).C and E within a 1 mile




                                                                                       158
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                              radius from the Working Pad Surface of the Oil and
                              Gas Location(s).

                ii.    Expanded Areas of Evaluation. The Operator will expand
                       the Areas of Evaluation where necessary and reasonable to
                       adequately analyze the potential Cumulative Impacts of the
                       proposed operations due to the nature, intensity, and scope
                       of the Oil and Gas Operations on the Location, and the
                       geographic extent of potential impacts, and other past,
                       present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future Development
                       in the vicinity of the Oil and Gas Location(s). In determining
                       whether it is necessary and reasonable to expand the Areas
                       of Evaluation, the Operator will defer to input from the
                       Director, the Relevant Local Government, CDPHE, and
                       CPW.

                iii.   Contracted Areas of Evaluation. The Operator may utilize
                       Areas of Evaluation smaller than the Areas of Evaluation in
                       Rule 315.b.(2).A.i where such Areas of Evaluation are not
                       necessary and reasonable to adequately analyze the
                       potential Cumulative Impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas
                       Operations. The Operator may only utilize smaller Areas of
                       Evaluation pursuant to this Rule 315.b.(2).A.iii if the Working
                       Pad Surface of the Oil and Gas Location(s) is located:

                       aa.    Outside the Ozone Nonattainment Area; and

                       bb.    Within an area of topographical relief, in which the
                              immediate lands surrounding the Oil and Gas
                              Location(s) contain mountainous terrain or other
                              distinctive features that eliminate or reduce the line of
                              sight.

                iv.    Director’s Review of Area of Evaluation.

                       aa.    For any proposed Oil and Gas Location pursuant to
                              Rule 304.b.(2), the Director’s Recommendation
                              prepared pursuant to Rule 306 will include the
                              Director’s evaluation of the appropriateness of the
                              Areas of Evaluation utilized by the Operator.

                       bb.    In all other circumstances, the Director will add a
                              condition of approval to the applicable form, or
                              otherwise indicate the Director’s evaluation of the
                              appropriateness of the Areas of Evaluation utilized by
                              the Operator.




                                                                                   159
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                v.      For any proposed Oil and Gas Location pursuant to Rule
                        304.b.(2), the Commission will defer to the Director’s
                        evaluation of the appropriateness of the Area of Evaluation,
                        and may only require the Operator to use a different Area(s)
                        of Evaluation if, after reviewing the record as a whole, the
                        Commission determines that it is necessary and reasonable
                        to adjust one or more Areas of Evaluation to assess the
                        extent of potential impacts.

          B.    Recent high resolution aerial image(s) showing a delineation of the
                Oil and Gas Location’s maximum surface area disturbance,
                Working Pad Surface, access road(s), and off-location flowlines,
                pipelines, or utility corridors. The image(s) will include annotation of
                the following from the specified proximity to the Working Pad
                Surface:

                i.      A 2,000-foot, 1/2 mile, and 1 mile radius, and a delineation of
                        the Area of Evaluation;

                ii.     Any Disproportionately Impacted Community within the Area
                        of Evaluation;

                iii.    All existing or permitted Residential Building Units, High
                        Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, and Child Care
                        Centers within the Area of Evaluation;

                iv.     All High Priority Habitat within the Area of Evaluation;

                v.      All surface water bodies within the Area of Evaluation;

                vi.     All Public Water System intakes within the Area of
                        Evaluation;

                vii.    All local government land use zoning designations within the
                        Area of Evaluation;

                viii.   Any existing or permitted Oil and Gas Facilities within the
                        Area of Evaluation;

                ix.     Any existing or permitted Industrial Facilities within the Area
                        of Evaluation;

                x.      Any major transportation corridors, including but not limited
                        to an interstate or state highway or railroad, within the Area
                        of Evaluation;

                xi.     A reference coordinate (latitude/longitude); and




                                                                                      160
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                xii.   Any other significant potential sources, existing or permitted,
                       that may contribute to adverse Cumulative Impacts within
                       the Area of Evaluation.

          C.    Impacts From Other Past, Present, and Reasonably
                Foreseeable Development in Area of Evaluation. The Operator
                will submit the following information to enable the Commission to
                evaluate Cumulative Impacts in the Area of Evaluation combined
                with impacts from other past, present, and Reasonably
                Foreseeable Future Development:

                i.     A narrative description of impacts from publicly available
                       local, state, or federal permits representing past, present,
                       and Reasonably Foreseeable Future Development of any
                       kind within the Area of Evaluation, and the incremental
                       impacts of the Oil and Gas Location(s) or Well(s) on such
                       development;

                ii.    A narrative description of any known sources of adverse
                       impacts from Oil and Gas Facilities within the Area of
                       Evaluation, based on publicly available data;

                iii.   A qualitative description of adverse Cumulative Impacts,
                       identified based on publicly available data, as originating
                       from an Industrial Facility within the Area of Evaluation;

                iv.    A copy of the most recent Colorado EnviroScreen data for
                       the Oil and Gas Location;

                v.     A copy of any Environmental Equity and Cumulative Impact
                       Analysis prepared by CDPHE pursuant to § 25-1-133,
                       C.R.S. (2024) that includes the Area of Evaluation; and

                vi.    A copy of the CDPHE/APCD Environmental Justice
                       Summary, if one has been submitted to CDPHE, for the Oil
                       and Gas Location(s) or Facilities to be sited at the Oil and
                       Gas Location(s), and a copy of any response or result of
                       CDPHE’s review of the summary.

          D.    Measures to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Cumulative
                Impacts. The Operator will include:

                i.     A description of specific measures taken to avoid an
                       incremental increase in Cumulative Impacts that would
                       otherwise result from the proposed Operations and how
                       such measures avoid adverse impacts to public health and
                       the environment, including air quality, water quality, climate,
                       noise, odor, wildlife, and Biological Resources.



                                                                                     161
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                ii.    Where an incremental increase in adverse Cumulative
                       Impacts will not be avoided, a description of measures taken
                       to minimize an incremental increase in adverse Cumulative
                       Impacts.

                       aa.   The Operator will describe all Best Management
                             Practices or Enhanced Systems and Practices the
                             Operator is committed to implementing.

                             1.     For each Best Management Practice or
                                    Enhanced System and Practice identified, a
                                    description of how it minimizes adverse
                                    impacts to public health and the environment,
                                    including air quality, water quality, climate,
                                    noise, odor, wildlife, and Biological Resources;
                                    and

                             2.     If any Best Management Practice or Enhanced
                                    System and Practice is recommended by CPW
                                    or CDPHE at the pre-application meeting
                                    pursuant to Rules 301.f or g, or at any other
                                    consultation, but is not adopted by the
                                    Operator, the Operator will describe why such
                                    recommendation does not apply to, or is
                                    unnecessary or unreasonable for, the Oil and
                                    Gas Location(s), or why the Operator is
                                    otherwise unable to commit to such Best
                                    Management Practice or Enhanced System
                                    and Practice.

                       bb.   The Operator will describe all other measures the
                             Operator is committed to implementing and how such
                             measures minimize adverse impacts to public health
                             and the environment, including air quality, water
                             quality, climate, noise, odor, wildlife, and Biological
                             Resources.

                iii.   Where the measures described in Rules 315.b.(2).D.i and ii
                       will not prevent an incremental increase to adverse
                       Cumulative Impacts, a description of all measures taken to
                       mitigate adverse Cumulative Impacts to any of the
                       resources, and how those measures mitigate adverse
                       impacts to public health, safety, and welfare, the
                       environment, or wildlife resources, including but not limited
                       to:




                                                                                 162
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                      aa.   Any Wells to be plugged and abandoned as part of
                            the Oil and Gas Development Plan or other Oil and
                            Gas Operations, and whether such Wells are located
                            within a Disproportionately Impacted Community or
                            High Priority Habitat;

                      bb.   Any Facilities or equipment to be decommissioned
                            and removed as part of the proposed Oil and Gas
                            Operations and whether such Facilities are located
                            within a Disproportionately Impacted Community or
                            High Priority Habitat;

                      cc.   Any Oil and Gas Locations to be reclaimed part of the
                            proposed Oil and Gas Operations and whether such
                            locations are located within a Disproportionately
                            Impacted Community or High Priority Habitat;

                      dd.   Any access road, flowline, gathering line, or pipeline
                            infrastructure to be removed and reclaimed as part of
                            the proposed Oil and Gas Operations and whether
                            such roads or lines are located within a
                            Disproportionately Impacted Community or High
                            Priority Habitat;

                      ee.   Any other information utilized by the Operator that
                            would assist the Commission in evaluating the
                            Cumulative Impacts from the Oil and Gas Location(s);

                iv.   If the Working Pad Surface of a proposed Oil and Gas
                      Location is within 1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit,
                      High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
                      Center within a Disproportionately Impacted Community, the
                      Operator will include:

                      aa.   A table illustrating the Colorado EnviroScreen score,
                            EnviroScreen Group Component scores and
                            EnviroScreen Individual Components scores for the
                            proposed Oil and Gas Location;

                      bb.   An explanation of how the Operator utilized the
                            Colorado EnviroScreen score, EnviroScreen Group
                            Component scores and EnviroScreen Individual
                            Component scores to determine the proposed Best
                            Management Practices and/or Enhanced Systems
                            and Practices for the proposed Oil and Gas Locations
                            within the impacted community;




                                                                               163
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                      cc.    Identification of the proposed Best Management
                             Practices and/or Enhanced Systems and Practices to
                             be used at the proposed Oil and Gas Locations within
                             the impacted community that address the issues that
                             exist as reflected by the Colorado EnviroScreen
                             score, the EnviroScreen Group Component scores,
                             and the EnviroScreen Individual Component scores,
                             as well as a narrative describing how the identified
                             Practices mitigate, minimize or avoid the impacted
                             community;

                      dd.    A description of Best Management Practices and/or
                             Enhanced Systems and Practices to be utilized by the
                             Operator, if any, to address past, present, and
                             reasonably foreseeable future impacts in such
                             community;

                      ee.    Identification of reasonable and necessary Best
                             Management Practices to be utilized by the Operator
                             to address any relevant issues or concerns identified
                             in public comments or arising out of the Community
                             Outreach meeting; and

                      ff.    A description of beneficial impacts, if any, of the
                             proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan to such
                             community.

                v.    A narrative explanation qualifying the projected incremental
                      increase to Cumulative Impacts that will not be avoided,
                      minimized, or mitigated, including identification of the people,
                      communities, resources, or other receptors impacted.

          E.    Resource Impact Descriptions. A narrative description of the
                evaluations that have been conducted by Operator to determine the
                incremental impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations on
                public health and environment, including the air quality, water
                quality, climate, noise, odor, wildlife, and Biological Resources
                within the Area of Evaluation, or on a Disproportionately Impacted
                Community.

                i.    Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Air Quality. The
                      Operator will provide the following information regarding its
                      evaluation of impacts to air quality in the Area of Evaluation:

                      aa.    Qualitative description of potential pre-production and
                             production impacts to air quality from the Oil and Gas
                             Location(s);




                                                                                   164
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                      bb.    Description of any relevant current or ongoing air
                             quality monitoring reports generated by a Relevant
                             and Proximate Local Government, including a
                             discussion of any exceedances noted by the Local
                             Government;

                      cc.    Description of known sources with Title V operating
                             permits, pursuant to the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §
                             7661 – 7661f;

                      dd.    Qualitative description of other sources of hazardous
                             air pollutants within the Area of Evaluation, including
                             whether the proposed Operations are anticipated to
                             exceed or contribute to the exceedance of any
                             applicable public health limits;

                      ee.    Statement describing whether the Operator is below,
                             has met, or is in exceedance of its NOx Intensity
                             Target as of the date of the relevant application or
                             form submission; and

                      ff.    Identification of any instances of noncompliance with
                             NOx Intensity Target by Operators with Oil and Gas
                             Operations within the Area of Evaluation.

                ii.   Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Water Quality. The
                      Operator will provide the following information regarding its
                      evaluation of impacts to water quality in the Area of
                      Evaluation:

                      aa.    Description of water resources within the Area of
                             Evaluation, including distances and directions to
                             aquatic features nearest to the Oil and Gas
                             Location(s);

                      bb.    The categories of classified uses, antidegradation
                             designation, water quality attainment status, and
                             causes of any impairment as used and reported by
                             CDPHE pursuant to the Clean Water Act Sections
                             303(d) and 305(b), of any segment and/or surface
                             Water of the State, any portion of which is located
                             within the Area of Evaluation;

                      cc.    Description of potential pre-production and production
                             impacts to aquatic features from the Oil and Gas
                             Location(s);




                                                                                 165
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       dd.    Description of Best Management Practices that will be
                              implemented to prevent potential spills and impacts to
                              water resources and water quality;

                       ee.    Evaluation of proposed water use for pre-production
                              activities and a summary of Best Management
                              Practices intended to reduce impacts from freshwater
                              use; and

                       ff.    Description of impacts to water quality from other
                              past, present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future
                              Development within the Area of Evaluation.

                iii.   Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Climate. The
                       Operator will provide the following information regarding its
                       evaluation of Impacts to Climate in the Area of Evaluation:

                       aa.    Statement describing whether the Operator is below,
                              has met, or is in exceedance of its Greenhouse Gas
                              Intensity Targets as of the date of the relevant
                              application or form submission;

                       bb.    Estimate of the Greenhouse Gas emissions expected
                              to occur from sources that are controlled or owned by
                              the Operator, as well as reasonably foreseeable truck
                              traffic, associated with the Oil and Gas Location(s);

                       cc.    Any reductions in Greenhouse Gas emissions directly
                              attributable to the Oil and Gas Location(s); and

                       dd.    Description of Best Management Practices that would
                              avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse Impacts to
                              Climate from the Oil and Gas Location(s).

                iv.    Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Noise. The Operator
                       will provide the following information regarding its evaluation
                       of impacts on noise in the Area of Evaluation:

                       aa.    Description of the of pre-production and production
                              noise sources and potential impacts to human and
                              wildlife receptors within the Area of Evaluation;

                       bb.    For Locations within 2,000 feet of a Residential
                              Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School
                              Facility or Child Care Facility, a description of all
                              common, significant, and acute ambient noise
                              sources, including periodicity, timing, and duration of




                                                                                  166
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                             noise events, and any publicly available baseline
                             noise surveys;

                      cc.    Description of any predictive noise modeling
                             completed from the Oil and Gas Location(s) and
                             summary of whether mitigation is required to comply
                             with permissible noise level limits described in Rule
                             423 and noise limits of the Relevant Local
                             Government;

                      dd.    Description of relevant Best Management Practices
                             and evaluation of how such Best Management
                             Practices would avoid, minimize, or mitigate impacts
                             to receptors from pre-production and production
                             sources of noise; and

                      ee.    Description of noise impacts from other past, present,
                             and Reasonably Foreseeable Future Development
                             within the Area of Evaluation.

                v.    Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Odor. The Operator
                      will provide the following information regarding its evaluation
                      of impacts on odor in the Area of Evaluation:

                      aa.    Description of pre-production and production sources
                             of odor and potential impacts to receptors in the Area
                             of Evaluation;

                      bb.    Description of relevant Best Management Practices
                             and Enhanced Systems and Practices and evaluation
                             of how such measures would avoid, minimize, or
                             mitigate impacts to receptors from pre-production and
                             production sources of odor; and

                      cc.    Description of odor impacts from other past, present,
                             and Reasonably Foreseeable Future Development
                             within the Area of Evaluation.

                vi.   Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Wildlife. The
                      Operator will provide the following information regarding its
                      evaluation of impacts on wildlife in the Area of Evaluation:

                      aa.    Qualitative evaluation of terrestrial and aquatic wildlife
                             habitats within the Area of Evaluation;

                      bb.    For Locations within High Priority Habitat, quantitative
                             evaluation of High Priority Habitat surface disturbance
                             from the Oil and Gas Location(s);



                                                                                   167
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       cc.   Description of relevant Best Management Practices
                             and evaluation of how such Best Management
                             Practices would avoid, minimize, or mitigate impacts
                             to wildlife, including noise, light, and odor;

                       dd.   Description of potential for threatened, endangered or
                             sensitive species habitat within the Oil and Gas
                             Location(s), including a description of relevant Best
                             Management Practices and evaluation of how such
                             Best Management Practices would avoid, minimize,
                             or mitigate impacts to potentially affected federally
                             listed species. If impacts to federally listed species
                             are anticipated, a description of consultation efforts
                             with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service;

                       ee.   Qualitative evaluation of other terrestrial or aquatic
                             wildlife resources in the Area of Evaluation that could
                             be affected by pre-production and production
                             activities associated with the Oil and Gas Location(s),
                             and how those potential impacts contribute to impacts
                             from past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future
                             development within the Area of Evaluation; and

                       ff.   Description of impacts to wildlife from other past,
                             present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future
                             Development within the Area of Evaluation.

                vii.   Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Biological and Soil
                       Resources. The Operator will provide the following
                       information regarding its evaluation of impacts on Biological
                       and soil Resources in the Area of Evaluation:

                       aa.   Soils.

                             1.       Qualitative baseline evaluation of soil types
                                      within the Area of Evaluation;

                             2.       Quantification of short-term and long-term
                                      (post interim reclamation) surface disturbance
                                      by soil type resulting from the Oil and Gas
                                      Location and associated access roads and
                                      flowlines;

                             3.       Description of relevant Best Management
                                      Practices and an evaluation of how such Best
                                      Management Practices avoid, mitigate, or
                                      offset adverse impacts to soil resources;




                                                                                      168
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                             4.    Description of the impacts to soil from other
                                   past, present, and Reasonably Foreseeable
                                   Future Development within the Area of
                                   Evaluation.

                      bb.    Vegetation and Habitat.

                             1.    Evaluation of any barrens habitats and habitats
                                   identified as SWAP Habitats in Colorado Parks
                                   and Wildlife State Wildlife Action Plan (2015),
                                   Ch. 3, Table 4, as incorporated in Rule
                                   314.e.(10).E.v, within the Area of Evaluation;

                             2.    Quantification of short-term and long-term
                                   vegetation disturbance resulting from the Oil
                                   and Gas Location and associated access
                                   roads and flowlines;

                             3.    Qualitative description of relevant Best
                                   Management Practices and an evaluation of
                                   how such Best Management Practices avoid,
                                   mitigate, or offset adverse impacts to
                                   vegetation resources, including impacts to any
                                   barrens habitats and habitats identified as
                                   SWAP Habitats in Colorado Parks and Wildlife
                                   State Wildlife Action Plan (2015), Ch. 3, Table
                                   4, as incorporated in Rule 314.e.(10).E.v. Such
                                   Best Management Practices will include the
                                   Operator’s plans for interim reclamation and
                                   weed control;

                             4.    Description of impacts to vegetation from other
                                   past, present, and Reasonably Foreseeable
                                   Future Development within the Area of
                                   Evaluation.

          F.    Evaluation of Cumulative Impacts – Transportation Corridors.
                The Operator will provide the following information regarding its
                evaluation of impacts on transportation corridors in the Area of
                Evaluation:

                i.    Description of the transportation routes planned for the Oil
                      and Gas Operations, including the type, size, and volume of
                      the intended roadways to be used;

                ii.   Description of the current traffic volumes and patterns on the
                      affected roadways and impacts projected from Reasonably
                      Foreseeable Future Development; and



                                                                                169
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 iii.   Description of Best Management Practices to avoid,
                        minimize, or mitigate impacts to transportation corridors.

           G.    Additional information determined to be reasonable and necessary
                 to the evaluation of Cumulative Impacts by the Operator, the
                 Director, CDPHE, CPW, or the Relevant Local Government.

     (3)   Analysis of Evaluations and Information. The Operator will submit a
           brief narrative analysis of the combined impacts contained in the
           evaluations and information required pursuant to Rules 315.b.(2).E-G that
           will not be avoided, minimized, or mitigated.

     (4)   Plain Language Summary. The Operator will submit a plain language
           summary, in easily understandable terms, of the Cumulative Impacts
           analysis prepared pursuant to this Rule 315.b, explaining how the
           incremental impacts associated with the Oil and Gas Operations proposed
           at the Oil and Gas Location will contribute to the potential Cumulative
           Impacts of the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan.

     (5)   Review of Cumulative Impacts Analysis.

           A.    If a Cumulative Impacts analysis is submitted pursuant to Rules
                 315.b.(1).B–D, the Director will review an Operator’s Cumulative
                 Impacts analysis and determine whether the analysis adequately
                 evaluates and addresses the Cumulative Impacts of the proposed
                 Oil and Gas Operations.

           B.    If a Cumulative Impacts analysis is submitted pursuant to Rule
                 315.b.(1).A, the Commission will review an Operator’s Cumulative
                 Impacts analysis and determine whether the analysis adequately
                 evaluates and addresses the Cumulative Impacts of the proposed
                 Oil and Gas Operations.

           C.    The review of an Operator’s Cumulative Impacts analysis pursuant
                 to this Rule 315.a.(4) will consider factors including:

                 i.     Any efforts taken by the Operator to first avoid adverse
                        Cumulative Impacts;

                 ii.    Any actions taken by the Operator to minimize adverse
                        Cumulative Impacts that could not be avoided;

                 iii.   Any actions taken by the Operator to mitigate adverse
                        Cumulative Impacts that could not be avoided or minimized;

                 iv.    Any adverse Cumulative Impacts that would result from
                        approval of the Oil and Gas Development Plan, Form 2A, or
                        Form 2, as applicable;



                                                                                     170
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 v.      Any beneficial Cumulative Impacts that would result from
                         approval of the Oil and Gas Development Plan, Form 2A, or
                         Form 2, as applicable;

                 vi.     The Operator’s engagement with nearby residents regarding
                         the Oil and Gas Development Plan, Form 2A, or Form 2, as
                         applicable;

                 vii.    Any public comments or other input provided by members of
                         the public and the Operator’s response to such comments;

                 viii.   A narrative explanation as to how no alternative location is
                         available that would better avoid or minimize adverse
                         Cumulative Impacts, where applicable;

                 ix.     The Relevant Local Government’s consideration or
                         disposition of a land use permit for the Location;

                 x.      Results of all meetings and consultations conducted
                         pursuant to Rules 301.g and 309; and

                 xi.     The Operator’s record of compliance with the Act and
                         Commission Rules.

           D.    If the Director or Commission, where applicable, determines the
                 Cumulative Impacts analysis does not adequately evaluate or
                 address Cumulative Impacts, necessary and reasonable conditions
                 of approval may be added to the relevant application or form, or the
                 relevant application or form may be denied.

316. REQUIREMENTS FOR OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS IN THE OZONE
NONATTAINMENT AREA

a.   Consideration of Operator’s NOx Intensity Target Status for Oil and Gas
     Development Plans in the Ozone Nonattainment Area between May 1 and
     September 30.

     (1)   Operator’s Demonstration of NOx Intensity Target Status for Oil and
           Gas Development Plans. Each Oil and Gas Development Plan
           application that seeks approval to conduct pre-production operations in
           the Ozone Nonattainment Area between May 1 and September 30 will
           provide the following information on a Form 2B:

           A.    Operators Subject to the NOx Intensity Target.

                 i.      The Operator will provide the following information, as
                         submitted in its most recent interim report pursuant to AQCC




                                                                                   171
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                      Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.4, as incorporated in Rule
                      301.h:

                      aa.    Interim NOx intensity, calculated pursuant to AQCC
                             Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.2.a, as incorporated in
                             Rule 301.h; and

                      bb.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                             exceeded, or is below its NOx Intensity Target.

                      cc.    If any data pertaining to an Operator’s NOx Intensity
                             Target is corrected and submitted to CDPHE, the
                             same corrected data will be submitted to the
                             Commission within 10 days of its submission to
                             CDPHE.

                ii.   The Operator will provide the following information, as
                      submitted in its annual report pursuant to AQCC Regulation
                      No. 7, Part B.V.B, as incorporated in Rule 301.h:

                      aa.    NOx intensity, calculated pursuant to AQCC
                             Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.2.a, as incorporated in
                             Rule 301.h; and

                      bb.    Indication of whether the operator has met, has
                             exceeded, or is below its NOx Intensity Target.

                      cc.    If any data pertaining to an Operator’s NOx Intensity
                             Target is corrected and submitted to CDPHE, the
                             same corrected data will be submitted to the
                             Commission within 10 days of its submission to
                             CDPHE.

          B.    Operators Not Subject to the NOx Intensity Target. For
                Operators not subject to the NOx Intensity Target pursuant to
                AQCC Regulation No. 7, as incorporated in Rule 301.h, for the
                preceding May 1 through September 30 period, the following
                information:

                i.    A statement certifying that the operator will comply with
                      Enhanced Systems and Practices for all activities included in
                      the Oil and Gas Development Plan; and

                ii.   A list of additional operational practices to be utilized by the
                      operator to reduce emissions of NOx.

          C.    On the Form 2B, the Operator will indicate the year the Operator
                plans to begin pre-production operations.



                                                                                   172
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Any Oil and Gas Development Plan application that seeks approval to
           conduct pre-production operations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area
           between May 1 and September 30 must be submitted, pursuant to the 300
           Series Rules, no later than December 31 of the year prior to the proposed
           pre-production operations. Submission of the Oil and Gas Development
           Plan by December 31 does not guarantee that the Commission will hear
           the application before May 1 of the following year.

     (3)   Director’s Consideration of an Operator’s NOx Intensity Target
           Status. As part of the Director’s Recommendation pursuant to Rule 306.b,
           the Director will consider the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target status.

     (4)   Commission Consideration of an Operator’s NOx Intensity Target
           Status. The Commission will review the Director’s Recommendation
           pursuant to Rule 307 and consider the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target
           status.

b.   Form 2D, Emissions Intensity Assessment. All Operators who conduct, or
     seek to conduct, Oil and Gas Operations within the Ozone Nonattainment Area
     will file a Form 2D, Emissions Intensity Assessment, by February 15, 2025, and
     no later than February 15 of each year thereafter.

     (1)   Pre-Production Operations Within the Ozone Nonattainment Area
           between May 1 and September 30. Any Operator who seeks to conduct
           pre-production operations under an approved Oil and Gas Development
           Plan, Form 2A, or Form 2 in the Ozone Nonattainment Area between May
           1 and September 30 will submit a Form 2D to the Director. No pre-
           production operations may occur within the Ozone Nonattainment Area
           between May 1 and September 30 without an approved Form 2D. The
           Form 2D will include:

           A.     For Form 2Ds submitted for proposed pre-production operations
                  between May 1 and September 30, 2025, an Operator will submit:

                  i.     The Operator’s most recent interim NOx intensity information
                         pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.VI.E.4, as
                         incorporated by Rule 301.h, for 2024, or a statement
                         certifying that the Operator is not subject to the NOx
                         Intensity Target;

                  ii.    A narrative description of the Enhanced Systems and
                         Practices pursuant to Rule 316.c that the Operator plans to
                         utilize to reduce emissions and/or ensure that it does not
                         exceed its NOx Intensity Target during the upcoming year;

                  iii.   A narrative description of the Operator’s ability to not exceed
                         its NOx Intensity Target for pre-production operations
                         proposed between May 1 and September 30, 2025;



                                                                                    173
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iv.    A narrative description of the Operator’s level of pre-
                       production operations for the upcoming May 1-September 30
                       time period as compared with the prior two May 1-
                       September 30 time periods, if applicable;

                v.     Any other information that demonstrates compliance with the
                       NOx Intensity Target; and

                vi.    A certification that the information provided in the Form 2D is
                       true and correct to the best of the Operator’s knowledge and
                       belief.

          B.    For Form 2Ds submitted for proposed pre-production operations
                between May 1 and September 30, 2026, and each May 1 to
                September 30 time period thereafter, an Operator will submit:

                i.     The Operator’s most recent NOx Intensity information, which
                       will include, as applicable:

                       aa.    The Operator’s most recent annual NOx Intensity
                              information pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part
                              B.V.B, as incorporated in Rule 301.h, indicating
                              whether the Operator is below, has met, or has
                              exceeded its NOx Intensity Target; and the Operator’s
                              most recent interim NOx Intensity information
                              pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7, Part B.IV.E.4, as
                              incorporated in Rule 301.h, indicating an Operator’s
                              progress with respect to its NOx Intensity Target; or

                       bb.    A statement certifying that the Operator is not subject
                              to the NOx Intensity Target.

                ii.    A narrative description of the Enhanced Systems and
                       Practices pursuant to Rule 316.c that the Operator plans to
                       utilize to reduce emissions and/or ensure that it does not
                       exceed its NOx Intensity Target during the upcoming year;

                iii.   A narrative description of the Operator’s ability to not exceed
                       its NOx Intensity Target for pre-production operations
                       proposed for the upcoming May 1-September 30 time
                       period;

                iv.    A narrative description of the Operator’s level of pre-
                       production operations for the upcoming May 1-September 30
                       time period as compared with the prior two May 1-
                       September 30 time periods, if applicable;




                                                                                  174
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  v.     Any other information that demonstrates compliance with the
                         NOx Intensity Target; and

                  vi.    A certification that the information provided in the Form 2D is
                         true and correct to the best of the Operator’s knowledge and
                         belief.

     (2)   Production Operations Within the Ozone Nonattainment Area. All
           Operators in production in the Ozone Nonattainment Area will submit a
           Form 2D containing its most recent NOx Intensity information, which will
           include the information set forth in Rule 316.b.(1).B.i, as applicable. The
           Form 2D will also include:

           A.     A statement certifying that the Operator was below its NOx Intensity
                  Target by 20% or greater in its most recent annual report, as
                  informed by its interim report; or

           B.     A statement certifying that the Operator was not below its NOx
                  Intensity Target by 20% or greater in its most recent annual report,
                  as informed by its interim report, and information to assist the
                  Director in evaluating whether the Director believes the Operator
                  can comply with its NOx Intensity Target, including, but not limited
                  to, whether the Operator will take additional actions to:

                  i.     Implement any Enhanced Systems and Practices found in
                         Rule 316.c;

                  ii.    Shut in one or more Oil and Gas Well(s); or

                  iii.   Plug and Abandon one or more Oil and Gas Wells.

     (3)   Director’s Review of a Form 2D.

           A.     Pre-Production Operations Within the Ozone Nonattainment
                  Area between May 1 and September 30.

                  i.     If the Operator’s Form 2D indicates the Operator was below
                         its NOx Intensity Target by 20% or greater in its most recent
                         annual report, as informed by its interim report, the Director
                         will approve the Form 2D to authorize pre-production
                         operations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area for the
                         immediately upcoming May 1 and September 30 time period.

                  ii.    Additional Review. If the Operator’s Form 2D indicates the
                         Operator was not below its NOx Intensity Target by 20% or
                         greater, the Director may approve the Form 2D to authorize
                         pre-production operations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area
                         for the immediately upcoming May 1 and September 30 time



                                                                                    175
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                     period, or require the Operator to engage in the following
                     additional review process.

                     aa.   If the Director requires the Operator to engage in this
                           additional review process, an Operator will submit an
                           anticipated list of all proposed pre-production
                           operations for the upcoming May 1-September 30
                           time period, in support of its Form 2D. Such list will
                           include, but is not limited to, the following information:

                           1.     Oil and Gas Locations to be constructed;

                           2.     Oil and Gas Well(s) to be drilled, deepened, re-
                                  entered, or planned for sidetrack;

                           3.     Oil and Gas Well(s) to be completed or
                                  recompleted;

                           4.     Oil and Gas Well(s) to be converted into Class
                                  II UIC Well(s); and

                           5.     Well(s) to be converted from Stratigraphic
                                  Well(s) into Oil and Gas production Well(s).

                     bb.   If the Director believes the list of proposed pre-
                           production operations submitted pursuant to Rule
                           316.b.(3).A.ii.aa demonstrates the Operator can
                           comply with its NOx Intensity Target, the Director will
                           approve the Form 2D.

                     cc.   If the Director does not believe the list of proposed
                           pre-production operations submitted pursuant to Rule
                           316.b.(3).A.ii.aa demonstrates the Operator can
                           comply with its NOx Intensity Target, the Director will
                           request a consultation with CDPHE. The Director may
                           also require the Operator to revise the list of proposed
                           pre-production operations submitted pursuant to
                           316.b.(3).A.ii.aa and resubmit such list to the Director;
                           or take any other actions that the Director, in
                           consultation with CDPHE, deem necessary to assure
                           compliance with the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target.

                     dd.   The Director may only approve the Form 2D following
                           additional review if the Operator certifies it is able and
                           willing to comply with the Director’s requirements
                           under Rule 316.b.(3).A.ii.cc. If the Operator does not
                           certify that it will comply with the Director’s




                                                                                  176
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                                requirements under Rule 316.b.(3).A.ii.cc, the Director
                                may deny the Form 2D.

                         ee.    If the Director requires an Operator to take action
                                pursuant to Rule 316.b.(3).A.ii.cc, the Operator may
                                appeal the Director’s decision to the Commission
                                pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10). The matter will not be
                                assigned to an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing
                                Officer pursuant to Rule 503.h. The Commission will
                                hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
                                meeting. The Commission may uphold the Director’s
                                decision if the Commission determines that the
                                Director had reasonable cause to determine that the
                                required actions are necessary to assure compliance
                                with the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target.

           B.     Production Operations Within the Ozone Nonattainment Area.
                  If the Director determines that the information provided on an
                  Operator’s Form 2D pursuant to Rule 316.b.(2) indicates that that
                  the Operator has exceeded for the previous year or is unable to
                  comply with its NOx Intensity Target, then the process set forth in
                  Rule 316.d will apply.

     (4)   Change in Approved Operations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area
           between May 1 and September 30. An Operator may request changes to
           pre-production operations previously approved pursuant to Rule 316.b in
           the Ozone Nonattainment Area for the period between May 1 through
           September 30 by submitting an amended Form 2D. Any Form 2D
           submitted after March 15 requesting changes to pre-production operations
           previously approved for the immediately upcoming May 1-September 30
           time period will be approved only if the requested change includes an
           improvement to or equivalent Enhanced Systems and Practices pursuant
           to Rule 316.c, a reduction in operations, or a substitution of authorized Oil
           and Gas Locations or Wells that are identical in design and operation to
           the originally approved Locations and Wells. If changes to pre-production
           operations are a result of changes requested on an approved Oil and Gas
           Development Plan, a Form 4 Sundry Notice must also be submitted
           pursuant to Rule 301.c.

     (5)   The Director will report to the Commission no later than April 15 annually a
           summary of approved operations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area for the
           upcoming May 1 through September 30 time period.

c.   Enhanced Systems and Practices for Operations Within the Ozone
     Nonattainment Area.

     (1)   Applicability.




                                                                                    177
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     The requirements set forth in Rules 316.c.(2)-(3) will apply to all
                  new Oil and Gas Locations within the Ozone Nonattainment Area
                  for which a Form 2A is submitted pursuant to Rule 304.a.(1) on or
                  after January 1, 2025.

           B.     The requirements set forth in Rule 316.c.(4) will apply to all new
                  construction of an Oil and Gas Location within the Ozone
                  Nonattainment Area that occurs after January 1, 2026 for any Form
                  2A approved after the effective date of these Rules.

     (2)   Operators will use drilling rig and completions technology as set forth in
           AQCC Regulation No. 7 Part B.VI.E.1.

     (3)   Required Enhanced Systems and Practices. At all new Oil and Gas
           Locations subject to this Rule 316.c, Operators will implement the
           following Enhanced Systems and Practices to avoid, minimize, and
           mitigate emissions of ozone precursors during the stated time period in
           the Ozone Nonattainment Area.

           A.     The following Enhanced Systems and Practices are required year-
                  round at new Oil and Gas Locations:

                  i.     If the Operator has pipeline takeaway for produced water,
                         the Operator will also utilize this pipeline takeaway for
                         production flowback water;

                  ii.    The Operator will have adequate and committed pipeline
                         takeaway capacity for all produced gas;

                  iii.   The Operator will shut in the facility, if the gas pipeline is
                         unavailable, and obtain an approved Gas Capture Plan prior
                         to utilizing gas on site;

                  iv.    The Operator will use sand management technology and/or
                         procedures including, but not limited to, closed-loop sandbox
                         technology to reduce the generation and release of silica
                         dust at the Oil and Gas Location;

                  v.     The Operator will cover trucks transporting drill cuttings;

                  vi.    The Operator will coordinate with nearby fire district(s) to
                         promote any further transition away from PFAS Chemical-
                         containing foam and evaluate if PFAS Chemical-free foams
                         are available for any specific hazards; and

                  vii.   If PFAS Chemical-containing foam is used at a location, the
                         Operator will:




                                                                                       178
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       aa.    Properly characterize the site to determine the level,
                              nature, and extent of contamination;

                       bb.    Perform appropriate soil and water sampling to
                              determine whether additional characterization is
                              necessary and inform the need for and extent of
                              interim or permanent remedial actions; and

                       cc.    Properly capture and dispose of PFAS Chemical-
                              contaminated soil and fire and flush water.

          B.    The following Enhanced Systems and Practices will be required
                between May 1 and September 30 for all new Oil and Gas
                Locations in the Ozone Nonattainment Area, except for Oil and Gas
                Locations in Disproportionately Impacted Communities, in which
                case the following Enhanced Systems and Practices are required
                year-round:

                i.     The Operator will incorporate options in its Gas Capture Plan
                       for recycling produced natural gas onsite (e.g., for gas lift
                       systems or facility fuel systems);

                ii.    The Operator will use a lease automatic custody transfer
                       (“LACT”) system or technology that is demonstrably
                       equivalent or superior;

                iii.   The Operator will use International Oil and Gas Producers
                       Group III drilling fluid or a drilling fluid that has less than
                       0.5% total aromatic contact and a polycyclic aromatic
                       hydrocarbon content less than 0.001%;

                iv.    The Operator will use a squeegee or other device to remove
                       drilling fluids from pipes as they exit the wellbore; and

                v.     For ozone mitigation on CDPHE-forecasted high ozone
                       days, the Operator will, as practicable:

                       aa.    Eliminate use of VOC paints and solvents;

                       bb.    Minimize vehicle and engine idling;

                       cc.    Minimize truck traffic and worker traffic;

                       dd.    Postpone the refueling of fleet or personal transit
                              vehicles on Location;




                                                                                     179
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       ee.    Suspend or delay the use of non-essential fossil fuel
                              powered ancillary equipment (excluding safety-critical
                              or site/Well integrity-critical operations); and

                       ff.    Reschedule non-essential operational activities such
                              as preventative maintenance and tank cleaning.

     (4)   Additional Enhanced Systems and Practices.

           A.   Locations Within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.
                At all new Oil and Gas Locations subject to this Rule 316.c that are
                also within a Disproportionately Impacted Community, Operators
                will implement the following Enhanced Systems and Practices to
                avoid, minimize, and mitigate emissions of ozone precursors
                between May 1 and September 30 in the Ozone Nonattainment
                Area.

                i.     The Operator will not store hydrocarbon liquids in permanent
                       storage tanks on site (other than a maintenance tank
                       possibly used for Well unloading or other maintenance
                       activities);

                ii.    The Operator will have adequate and committed pipeline
                       takeaway capacity for all produced oil;

                iii.   The Operator will use pipelines (e.g., lay-flat hose) to
                       transport water used for hydraulic fracturing to the Location;
                       and

                iv.    If centrifugal compressors are used on the Location, they will
                       be equipped with dry seals.

           B.   Locations Not Within a Disproportionately Impacted
                Community. At all new Oil and Gas Locations subject to this Rule
                316.c that are not within a Disproportionately Impacted Community,
                Operators will implement the additional Enhanced Systems and
                Practices set forth in Rule 316.c.(4).A to avoid, minimize, and
                mitigate emissions of ozone precursors between May 1 and
                September 30 in the Ozone Nonattainment Area where practicable.

           C.   At all new Oil and Gas Locations subject to this Rule 316.c,
                regardless of whether the Location is within a Disproportionately
                Impacted Community, Operators will implement the following
                additional Enhanced Systems and Practices to avoid, minimize,
                and mitigate emissions of ozone precursors between May 1 and
                September 30 in the Ozone Nonattainment Area where practicable:




                                                                                  180
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     The Operator will use grid power or onsite solar power for all
                       permanent powered production equipment onsite, excluding
                       external combustion sources;

                ii.    All drill rig engines and/or turbines with a manufacturer’s
                       design rate greater than or equal to 50 horsepower will be
                       powered by grid power or non-fossil fuel generated power;
                       and

                iii.   The Operator will not store produced water in permanent
                       storage tanks on site (excluding normally empty
                       maintenance tanks and tanks utilized in produced water
                       recycling/reuse).

          D.    Practicability Assessment.

                i.     The Operator will explain on its Form 2A whether it is, or is
                       not, implementing the specific Enhanced Systems and
                       Practices listed in Rules 316.c.(4).B and C at the Oil and
                       Gas Location and such explanation will include, but is not
                       limited to:

                       aa.    The availability of equipment or infrastructure required
                              to implement the Enhanced Systems and Practices
                              and the reason that such equipment or infrastructure
                              is unavailable;

                       bb.    An explanation of how implementing the Enhanced
                              Systems and Practices could present adverse
                              impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
                              environment, or wildlife resources;

                       cc.    The potential reduction of emissions of ozone
                              precursors attributable to the Enhanced Systems and
                              Practices compared to the operational difficulties of
                              implementing the Enhanced Systems and Practices;

                       dd.    The non-applicability of any Enhanced Systems and
                              Practices in Rules 316.c.(4).B and C to the respective
                              Oil and Gas Location; and

                       ee.    Other methods the Operator intends to employ to
                              avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse impacts to air
                              quality in the Ozone Nonattainment Area during the
                              May 1 to September 30 time period.




                                                                                  181
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  ii.    The Director’s Recommendation on the Oil and Gas
                         Location pursuant to Rule 306.b will include a discussion of
                         the Operator’s chosen Enhanced Systems and Practices.

d.   Actions to Reduce NOx Emissions. The Director may require Operators to
     take such actions between May 1 and September 30 in the Ozone
     Nonattainment Area to reduce NOx emissions generated from permitted pre-
     production and production operations as the Director deems necessary to assure
     compliance with an Operator’s NOx Intensity Targets.

     (1)   Actions to Address an Operator’s Failure to Comply with NOx
           Intensity Targets. If the Director determines that the information supplied
           on an Operator’s Form 2D indicates that the Operator has exceeded or is
           unable to comply with its NOx Intensity Target, the Director will require the
           Operator to take such actions as the Director deems necessary to assure
           compliance with the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target.

           A.     For pre-production operations, such actions may include, but are
                  not limited to:

                  i.     A prohibition on pre-production operations between May 1
                         and September 30 in the Ozone Nonattainment Area;

                  ii.    Implementation of any Enhanced Systems and Practices
                         listed in Rule 316.c; or

                  iii.   Other such actions that the Director deems necessary to
                         assure compliance with the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target.

           B.     For production operations, such actions may include, but are not
                  limited to:

                  i.     Implementation of any Enhanced Systems and Practices
                         listed in Rule 316.c;

                  ii.    Shutting in one or more Wells;

                  iii.   Plugging and abandoning one or more wells; or

                  iv.    Other such actions that the Director deems necessary to
                         assure compliance with the Operator’s NOx Intensity Target.

     (2)   Consultation with CDPHE. Prior to requiring an Operator to take action
           pursuant to Rule 316.d.(2), the Director will seek consultation with
           CDPHE.

           A.     The Director will seek consultation with CDPHE at least 60 days
                  prior to requiring an Operator to take action pursuant to this



                                                                                    182
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 subsection. The Operator will be invited to participate in the
                 CDPHE consultation. If the Operator elects not to participate, the
                 Director will provide the Operator with a written summary of the
                 consultation within 10 days. The Director may extend the
                 consultation period by 60 days upon the request of CDPHE if
                 additional time is necessary to avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse
                 environmental impacts.

           B.    This consultation will focus on measures that an Operator can
                 implement to reduce NOx emissions and come into compliance
                 with its NOx Intensity Targets.

     (3)   Appeal to Commission of Director Decision. If the Director requires an
           Operator to take action pursuant to this Rule 316.d, the Operator may
           appeal the Director’s decision to the Commission pursuant to Rule
           503.g.(10). The matter will not be assigned to an Administrative Law
           Judge or Hearing Officer. The Commission will hear the appeal at its next
           regularly scheduled meeting. The Commission may uphold the Director’s
           decision if the Commission determines that the Director had reasonable
           cause to determine that the required actions are necessary to assure
           compliance with the NOx Intensity Target.




                                                                                  183
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


400 SERIES OPERATIONS AND REPORTING

401.   LOCATION OF WELL COMPLETIONS

All Wells drilled for oil or gas will have the following completion setbacks:

a.     Well Completions 2,500 Feet or Greater in Depth. A Well completion 2,500
       feet or greater below the surface will be located not less than 600 feet from any
       lease line and not less than 1,200 feet from any other existing or permitted Well
       completion in the same common source of supply, unless authorized by order of
       the Commission or an exception under Rule 401.c is obtained.

b.     Well Completions Less than 2,500 Feet in Depth. A Well completion less than
       2,500 feet below the surface will be located not less than 200 feet from any lease
       line and not less than 300 feet from any other existing or permitted Well
       completion in the same common source of supply, except that only one Well
       completion in each such source of supply will be allowed in each governmental
       quarter-quarter section unless authorized by order of the Commission or an
       exception under Rule 401.c is obtained.

c.     Exception Locations.

       (1)    Operators may request in writing from the Director an exception to the
              Well completion location requirements of this Rule, or any order, because
              of geologic, environmental, topographic, or archaeological conditions,
              irregular sections, a Surface Owner request, or for other good cause
              shown. The Operator will submit the written exception location request
              and waivers pursuant to Rule 401.c.(2).B, as attachments to the Form 2,
              Application for Permit to Drill.

       (2)    The Director will not approve an exception request unless the Operator:

              A.     Demonstrates in sufficient detail that correlative rights are
                     protected; and

              B.     Submits with its request one of the following waivers authorizing the
                     encroachment:

                     i.     If the proposed Well completion encroaches upon an
                            unspaced lease, a waiver will be signed by the Owner unless
                            Rule 401.c.(2).B.iii applies.

                     ii.    If the proposed Well completion encroaches upon a unit, a
                            waiver will be signed by all Owners within the unit, unless
                            Rule 401.c.(2).B.iii applies.




                                                                                       184
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                   iii.    If the Operator of the proposed Well is the Owner of an
                           encroached-upon unspaced lease, or of a lease within an
                           encroached-upon unit, a waiver will be signed by the leased
                           mineral interest Owners.

d.   Exemptions to Rule 401.

     (1)    Rule 401 does not apply to authorized secondary or tertiary recovery
            projects;

     (2)    Rule 401 does not apply to Wells completed in fractured shale reservoirs
            in fields discovered prior to 1964; and

     (3)    In a unit operation approved by federal or state authorities, these Well
            completion location requirements apply to the exterior or interior (if one
            exists) boundary of the unit area unless otherwise authorized by
            Commission order after proper notice to Owners outside the unit area.

e.   Wells Located Near a Mine. No Well will be located within 200 feet of a shaft or
     entrance to a coal mine not definitely abandoned or sealed, nor will such Well be
     located within 100 feet of any mine shaft house, mine boiler house, mine engine
     house, or mine fan; and the location of any proposed Well will ensure that when
     drilled it will be at least 15 feet from any mine haulage or airway.

402. GREATER WATTENBERG AREA SPECIAL WELL LOCATION AND UNIT
DESIGNATION RULE

a.   The Greater Wattenberg Area (“GWA”) is defined to include those lands from and
     including Townships 2 South to 7 North and Ranges 61 West to 69 West, 6th
     P.M.

b.   As of January 15, 2021, the GWA special Well location, spacing, and unit
     designation Rule 318A is no longer in effect and future operations and
     development within the GWA will be subject to all of the Commission’s Rules and
     orders.

c.   Wellbore Spacing Units created under Rule 318A prior to January 15, 2021 will
     remain in effect unless the Form 2 expires without spud.

d.   A proposed Oil and Gas Location within the GWA with a valid Form 2A, Oil and
     Gas Location Assessment may be constructed prior to the expiration of the
     current Form 2A. If not constructed prior to the expiration of the current Form 2A,
     the proposed Oil and Gas Location will be resubmitted as part of an Oil and Gas
     Development Plan.

e.   A proposed Well within the GWA with a valid Form 2 may be drilled prior to the
     expiration of the current Form 2. If the Well is not drilled prior to the expiration of




                                                                                         185
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       the current Form 2, the proposed Well will be resubmitted as part of an Oil and
       Gas Development Plan.

403.   YUMA/PHILLIPS COUNTY SPECIAL WELL LOCATION RULE

a.     This Special Well Location Rule (“Yuma WLR”) governs Wells drilled to and
       completed in the Niobrara Formation for the following lands:

       Township 1 North Range 44 West: Sections 7, 18, 19, 30 through 33 Range
       45 West: Sections 7 through 36 Range 46 West: Sections 4 through 9 Range
       47 West: All Range 48 West: All

       Township 2 North Range 46 West: All Range 47 West: All Range 48 West:
       All

       Township 3 North Range 45 West: Sections 1 through 18 Range 46 West: All
       Range 47 West: All Range 48 West: All

       Township 4 North Range 45 West: All Range 46 West: All Range 47 West:
       All Range 48 West: All

       Township 5 North Range 45 West: All Range 46 West: All Range 47 West:
       All Range 48 West: All

       Township 6 North Range 45 West: All Range 46 West: All Range 47 West:
       All Range 48 West: All

       Township 7 North Range 45 West: All Range 46 West: All Range 47 West:
       All

       Township 8 North Range 45 West: All Range 46 West: All Range 47 West:
       All

       Township 9 North Range 45 West: Sections 19 through 36 Range 46 West:
       Sections 19 through 36 Range 47 West: Sections 19 through 36

       Township 1 South Range 44 West: Sections 3 through 10, 16 through 21, 27
       through 34 Range 45 West: Sections 3 through 5 Range 46 West: Sections 4
       through 9, 16 through 36 Range 47 West: All Range 48 West: All

       Township 2 South Range 44 West: Sections 3 through 6 Range 45 West:
       Section 7: W½, Section 18: W½, Section 19: All Range 46 West: Sections 1
       through 24 Range 47 West: All Range 48 West: All

       Township 3 South Range 48 West: All

       Township 4 South Range 48 West: All




                                                                                     186
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Within the Yuma WLR area, Operators may conduct drilling operations to the
     Niobrara Formation as follows:

     (1)   4 Niobrara Formation Wells may be drilled in any quarter section;

     (2)   No more than 1 Well may be located in any quarter quarter section;

     (3)   No minimum distance will be required between Wells producing from the
           Niobrara Formation in any quarter section; and

     (4)   Wells will be located at least 300 feet from the boundary of said quarter
           section, and Wells located outside any drilling units established by the
           Commission in the Yuma WLR area prior to July 30, 2006 will, in addition,
           be located at least 300 feet from any lease line. Further, Wells will be
           located not less than 900 feet from any producible Well drilled to the
           Niobrara Formation prior to July 30, 2006, located in a contiguous or
           cornering quarter section unless an exception is approved by the Director.

c.   Any Well drilled to the Niobrara Formation in the Yuma WLR area prior to July
     30, 2006, but not located as described in Rule 403.b will be treated as properly
     located for purposes of this Rule 403.

d.   This Yuma WLR does not alter the size or configuration of any drilling units
     established by the Commission in the Yuma WLR area prior to July 30, 2006.

e.   This Yuma WLR will not serve to bar the granting of relief to Owners who file an
     application alleging abuse of their correlative rights to the extent that such
     Owners can demonstrate that their opportunity to produce from the Niobrara
     Formation at locations herein authorized does not provide an equal opportunity to
     obtain their just and equitable share of oil and gas from such formation.

f.   Well exception locations to this Yuma WLR will be subject to the provisions of
     Rule 401.c.

g.   This Yuma WLR is a Well location rule and supersedes existing Commission
     orders in effect at the time of its adoption only to the extent that the existing
     orders relate to permissible Well locations and the number of Wells that may be
     drilled in a quarter section. Commission orders in effect when this Rule is
     adopted nonetheless apply with respect to the size of drilling units already
     established by the Commission in the Yuma WLR area. This Yuma WLR is not
     intended to establish Well spacing. Accordingly, when an area subject to Rule
     403 is otherwise unspaced, it does not act to space the area but instead provides
     the permissible locations for any new Niobrara Formation Wells. Similarly, Rule
     403 does not affect production allocation for existing or future Wells. An Operator
     may allocate production pursuant to the applicable lease, contract terms or
     established Drilling and Spacing Units recognizing the Owner’s right to apply to
     the Commission to resolve any outstanding correlative rights issues.




                                                                                      187
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

404.   FORM 4, SUNDRY NOTICES

a.     The Form 4, Sundry Notice is a multipurpose form which will be used by an
       Operator to request approval from or provide notice to the Director pursuant to
       the Commission’s Rules or when no other specific form exists.

b.     An Operator will comply with Rule 301.c for any Form 4 submitted to propose a
       change to an approved Oil and Gas Development Plan.

c.     An Operator will comply with Rule 304.a for any Form 4 submitted to propose a
       change to an approved Form 2A.

d.     If an Operator submits a Form 4 proposing a change to a previously approved
       noise, light, odor, or dust plan pursuant to Rules 423.a, 424.a, 426.a, or 427.a,
       the Director may approve the proposed change only if it provides equally
       protective or more protective standards to avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse
       impacts from noise, light, odor, or dust.

405.   FORM 42, FIELD OPERATIONS NOTICE

Operators will submit a Form 42, Field Operations Notice, as designated below and
pursuant to a condition of approval on any Form 2; Form 2A; Form 4; Form 6, Well
Abandonment Report; or any other approved form. No Form 42 may be submitted more
than 2 weeks prior to the scheduled activity, unless a longer timeframe is specified by
another Commission Rule. Each Form 42 that notifies the Commission of a forthcoming
activity will describe the estimated duration (which may be expressed as a range) for
the proposed activity if it is anticipated to last for longer than one day.

a.     Notice of Intent to Conduct Seismic Operations. Operators will provide the
       Commission written notice 2 business days in advance of the commencement of
       Seismic Operations. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations
       Notice – Notice of Intent to Conduct Seismic Operations. The Commission will
       provide prompt electronic notice of such intention to the Relevant Local
       Government.

b.     Notice of Construction or Major Change. Operators will provide the
       Commission written notice 2 business days in advance of commencing
       construction or a major change at any Oil and Gas Location or Oil and Gas
       Facility. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice –
       Notice of Construction or Major Change. The Commission will provide prompt
       electronic notice of such intention to the Relevant and Proximate Local
       Government and CPW.

c.     Notice of Pit Liner Installation. Operators will provide the Commission written
       notice 2 business days in advance of a Pit liner installation at any facility. Such
       notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Pit
       Liner Installation.




                                                                                        188
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   Notice of Completion of Form 2/2A Permit Conditions. If required by a
     condition of approval, Operators will provide the Commission written notice of
     completion of Form 2 or 2A permit conditions at any Well, Oil and Gas Location,
     or Oil and Gas Facility. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field
     Operations Notice – Notice of Completion of Form 2/2A Permit Conditions. The
     Commission will provide prompt electronic notice of such completion to CPW for
     any completions of Form 2A permit conditions for Oil and Gas Locations located
     in High Priority Habitat.

e.   Notice of Move-In, Rig-Up.

     (1)   For operations with a drilling rig, Operators will provide the Commission
           written notice 2 business days in advance of the operation on a Form 42,
           Field Operations Notice – Notice of Move-In and Rig-Up on an Oil and
           Gas Location.

     (2)   For planned operations with a work-over rig, Operators will provide the
           Commission written notice 2 business days in advance of the operation on
           a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Move-In and Rig-Up on an
           Oil and Gas Location.

     (3)   For unplanned operations with a work-over rig, Operators will provide the
           Commission written notice within 1 business day after commencement of
           the operation on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Move-In
           and Rig-Up on an Oil and Gas Location.

     (4)   For any operation identified in Rules 405.e.(1)–(3), the Commission will
           provide prompt electronic notice of such intention to the Relevant and
           Proximate Local Government and the Division of Water Resources.

f.   Notice of Spud. Operator will provide the Commission written notice 2 business
     days in advance of spudding the surface hole on any Well. Such notice will be
     provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Spud. The
     Commission will provide prompt electronic notice of such intention to the
     Relevant and Proximate Local Government.

g.   Notice to Run and Cement Casing. If required by condition of approval,
     Operators will provide the Commission written notice 24 hours in advance of
     running and cementing casing on any Well. Such notice will be provided on a
     Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice to Run and Cement Casing.

h.   Notice of Blow Out Preventer Test. If required by condition of approval,
     Operators will provide the Commission written notice 24 hours in advance of
     conducting a blow out preventer test at a Well. Such notice will be provided on a
     Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Blow Out Preventer Test.

i.   Notice of Significant Lost Circulation. Within 24 hours of significant lost
     circulation at any Well, Operators will provide the Commission written notice of



                                                                                    189
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     the event. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice –
     Notice of Significant Lost Circulation.

j.   Notice of Formation Integrity Test. If required by condition of approval,
     Operators will provide the Commission written notice 24 hours in advance of
     conducting a formation integrity test on any Well. Such notice will be provided on
     a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Formation Integrity Test.

k.   Notice of Intent to Conduct Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment. Operators will
     provide the Commission written notice 48 hours in advance of conducting a
     Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment at any Well. Such notice will be provided on a
     Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment.
     The Commission will provide prompt electronic notice of such intention to the
     Relevant and Proximate Local Government, the Air Pollution Control Division,
     and the Division of Water Resources.

l.   Notice of Plugging Operations. Operators will give at least 48 hours advance
     written notice to the Commission prior to mobilizing for plugging any Well. Such
     notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Plugging
     Operations. The Commission will provide prompt electronic notice of such
     intention to the Relevant and Proximate Local Government.

m.   Notice of High Bradenhead Pressure During Stimulation. Operators will give
     written notice to the Commission of high Bradenhead pressure during Stimulation
     at any Well within 24 hours of measuring the high pressure. Such notice will be
     provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of High Bradenhead
     Pressure During Stimulation.

n.   Notice of Mechanical Integrity Test. Operators will provide the Commission
     written notice 10 days in advance of conducting a mechanical integrity test on a
     Well. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice –
     Notice of Mechanical Integrity Test.

o.   Notice of Remedial Cementing Operations. Operators will provide the
     Commission written notice 48 hours in advance of the commencement of
     remedial cementing operations. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field
     Operations Notice – Notice of Remedial Cementing Operations.

p.   Notice of Return to Service. Operators will provide the Director with at least 48
     hours advance written notice as required by Rules 1104.A.(2).b and 417. Such
     notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Return
     to Service.

q.   Notice of H2S on an Oil and Gas Location. Within 48 hours after receipt of a
     laboratory gas stream analysis showing the presence of hydrogen sulfide (“H2S”)
     on an Oil and Gas Location, Operators will provide the Commission written notice
     of the analysis. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations




                                                                                   190
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Notice – Notice of H2S on an Oil and Gas Location. The Commission will provide
       prompt electronic notice of such analysis to CPW.

r.     Abandonment of Flowline. Operators will provide written notice to the
       Commission before undertaking and after completing abandonment of on-
       location Flowlines pursuant to Rule 1105. Such notice will be provided on a Form
       42, Field Operations Notice – Abandonment of Flowlines. The Commission will
       provide prompt electronic notice of such intention to the Relevant Local
       Government.

s.     Well Liquids Unloading. Operators will provide the Director with advance
       written notice before undertaking Well liquids unloading, as required by Rule
       903.d.(1).E. Such notice will be provided on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice –
       Notice of Well Liquids Unloading. The Commission will provide prompt electronic
       notice of such notice to the Relevant Local Government. The Operator will submit
       the Form 42 – Notice of Well Liquids Unloading no later than:

       (1)    48 hours prior to conducting Well liquids unloading; or

       (2)    As soon as possible prior to conducting Well liquids unloading if 48 hours
              notice would require an alternative or extended Well liquids unloading
              practice that increases emissions.

t.     Groundwater Baseline Sampling and Monitoring. Operators will provide
       immediate notice to the Director on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Water
       Sample Reporting upon receipt of any analytical results that meet any of the
       conditions described in Rules 615.e.(4).C & D.

406.   GENERAL OIL AND GAS LOCATION CONSTRUCTION RULES

a.     Operators will construct Oil and Gas Locations in conformance with the approved
       Form 2A and all applicable and approved Form 4s.

b.     Requirement to Provide Construction Notice. An advance notice will be
       provided to the Director on a Form 42 – Notice of Construction or Major Change
       no less than 2 business days prior to commencement of operations with heavy
       equipment for the construction of an Oil and Gas Location. The Form 42 will
       include an estimated duration for the proposed construction activity, which may
       be expressed as a range. The Commission will provide prompt electronic notice
       of such intention to the Relevant and Proximate Local Government and to CPW.

c.     Requirement to Post Location Assessment at the Location. A copy of the
       approved Form 2A, and any Form 4 modifying the approved Form 2A, will be
       posted in a protected and conspicuous place on location upon commencement of
       operations with heavy equipment until the conclusion of interim Reclamation.

d.     Location Signage. The Operator will, concurrent with the Rule 412 Surface
       Owner notice, post a sign not less than 2 feet by 2 feet at the intersection of the



                                                                                        191
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     lease road and the public road providing access to the Oil and Gas Location, with
     the name of the proposed Well or Oil and Gas Location, the legal location
     thereof, and the estimated date of commencement of construction. Such sign will
     be maintained until Well completion operations and construction operations at
     the Oil and Gas Location are concluded.

e.   Conductors.

     (1)   An Operator will secure conductors and cellars to prevent accidental
           access by people, livestock, or wildlife when active work on that conductor
           is not occurring.

     (2)   If artesian flows are encountered when a conductor is preset, the Operator
           will isolate the conductor with cement from the base of the conductor to
           the anticipated bottom of the cellar by the pump and plug or displacement
           method. The Operator will file a Form 4 – Report of Work Done, Other:
           Conductor Artesian Flow for the Oil and Gas Location to document the
           artesian flow and cementing operation.

     (3)   If the Operator has not drilled the Well for which the conductor was set
           within 30 days after setting the conductor, or after rig demobilization and
           move off (whichever is later), the Operator will have 15 days to comply
           with the following safety standards for maintaining a preset conductor:

           A.      Weld a plate on the top of the conductor pipe that remains in place
                   until the conductor is opened for drilling;

           B.      Cover and fence all rat holes, mouse holes, and cellars with
                   materials sufficient to prevent accidental access by people,
                   livestock, or wildlife and;

           C.      Maintain all fencing and covers.

     (4)   If the Operator has not drilled the Well within 3 months of setting the
           conductor on Crop Land locations or within 6 months on rangeland then
           the Operator will plug the conductor and perform Reclamation as follows:

           A.      Cut the conductor pipe four feet below ground level;

           B.      Fill the conductor pipe with material that is clean, inert, and free
                   from contaminants;

           C.      Seal the conductor pipe with either a cement plug and a screw cap
                   or a cement plug and a welded steel plate, and backfill the hole to
                   ground level;

           D.      Remove the cellar ring;




                                                                                          192
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              E.     Within 30 days of the plugging, submit a Form 4 – Report of Work
                     Done, Other: Plugged Conductor for the Oil and Gas Location, to
                     report the plugging of the conductor(s), that includes photo
                     documentation demonstrating compliance with Rules 406.e.(4).A–
                     D, above; and

              F.     Perform Reclamation pursuant to either Rule 1003 or Rule 1004.

407.   FORM 45, LOCATION CONSTRUCTION REPORT

a.     An Operator will submit a Form 45, Location Construction Report within 45
       days of completion of interim Reclamation for a new or modified Oil and Gas
       Location.

b.     The Form 45 will include the following information:

       (1)    Geographic Information System (“GIS”) polygon data to describe the as-
              built boundaries of the entire Oil and Gas Location and of the Working Pad
              Surface;

       (2)    A surveyed as-built layout drawing of the Oil and Gas Facilities and
              Production Facilities, and other temporary and permanent equipment on
              the location;

       (3)    A proposed anticipated schedule, by month and year, of the operation
              phases planned for 1 year following the date the Form 45 is submitted;
              and

       (4)    A description of all conductors that have been set, including:

              A.     Well name and Well number, and API number if the Well has an
                     approved Form 2;

              B.     Latitude and longitude of the conductor. If Global Positioning
                     System (“GPS”) technology is utilized to determine the latitude and
                     longitude, all GPS data will meet the requirements set forth in Rule
                     216; and

              C.     Conductor setting depth, pipe description (including diameter and
                     weight/foot, if applicable), cement volume, and cement job
                     summary (if applicable).

408.   GENERAL DRILLING RULES

Unless altered, modified, or changed for a particular Field or formation upon hearing
before the Commission the following will apply to the drilling or deepening of all Wells:




                                                                                       193
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

a.   Closed Loop Drilling. Closed loop drilling is required except where only water-
     based bentonitic drilling Fluids will be used, the wellbore will not penetrate salt-
     bearing formations, the Pit will not be in contact with shallow Groundwater, and
     the Pit will not be located within 2,000 feet of any Building Unit, a lined drilling Pit
     system may be used.

b.   Bottom Hole Location. Unless authorized by the provisions of Rule 410,
     Operators will drill all Wells so that the horizontal distance between the bottom of
     the hole and the location at the top of the hole will be at all times a practical
     minimum.

c.   Requirement to Post Permit at the Rig. The Operator will post a copy of the
     approved Form 2 in a conspicuous place on the drilling rig or workover rig.

d.   Requirement to Provide Spud Notice. An Operator will provide advance notice
     to the Director on a Form 42 – Notice of Spud, no less than 2 business days prior
     to spudding a Well.

e.   Drilling Fluid, Casing, and Cement Program to Isolate Hydrocarbon
     Formations and Groundwater and for Well Control.

     (1)    The casing and cementing plan for each Well will prevent migration of oil,
            gas, and water within Potential Flow Zones from one formation to another
            behind the casing.

     (2)    The casing and cementing plan will ensure Groundwater penetrated by
            the wellbore will be isolated from the infiltration of hydrocarbons or water
            from other formations penetrated by the wellbore. At a minimum, the
            Director will require that the Operator’s casing and cement plan for a Well
            will isolate Groundwater with fully-cemented surface casing or a
            combination of fully-cemented surface casing and stage cement for other
            casing string(s) across the Groundwater and to a depth 50 feet below the
            Groundwater and to 50 feet above it or to surface, in formations that meet
            the following standards:

            A.     Groundwater that has been classified pursuant to 5 C.C.R. § 1002-
                   41 as Domestic Use – Quality, Agricultural Use – Quality, Surface
                   Water Quality Protection, or Potentially Usable Quality; and

            B.     Groundwater that has not been classified pursuant to 5 C.C.R. §
                   1002-41, and with total dissolved solids (“TDS”) less than 10,000
                   mg/l.

            C.     Only the version of Colorado Department of Public Health and
                   Environment, Water Quality Control Commission (“WQCC”),
                   Regulation Number 41, The Basic Standards for Ground Water, 5
                   C.C.R. § 1002-41, et seq. in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies
                   to this Rule 408.e; later versions do not apply. A copy of 5 C.C.R. §



                                                                                         194
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 1002-41 is available for public inspection during normal business
                 hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
                 Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado
                 80203. In addition, 5 C.C.R. § 1002-41 may be examined at the
                 Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300
                 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is available at
                 https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/water-quality-control-
                 commission-regulations.

     (3)   Surface Casing Where Subsurface Conditions Are Unknown. In areas
           where pressure and formations are unknown, surface casing will be run
           for Well control to reach a depth approved by the Director that is a
           minimum depth of 10% of true vertical depth (“TVD”) of the deepest point
           of the planned Well (or as required by Commission order) and will be of
           sufficient size to permit the use of an intermediate string or strings of
           casings. Surface casing will be set in or through an impervious formation
           and will be cemented by pump and plug or displacement or other
           approved method with sufficient cement to fill the Annulus to the top of the
           hole, all pursuant to reasonable requirements of the Director.

     (4)   Surface Casing Where Subsurface Conditions Are Known. For Wells
           drilled in areas where subsurface conditions have been established by
           drilling experience, surface casing, sized at the Operator’s option, will be
           set and cemented to the surface by the pump and plug or displacement or
           other approved method at a depth approved by the Director, and for Well
           control, to a minimum depth of 10% of TVD of the deepest point of the
           planned Well (or as required by Commission order).

     (5)   Alternate Isolation by Stage Cementing.

           A.    In areas where Groundwater is of such depth as to make it
                 impractical to set the full amount of surface casing necessary to
                 comply fully with the requirement to isolate Groundwater, the
                 Director may approve isolation by stage cementing behind the
                 intermediate and/or production casing so as to accomplish the
                 required result.

           B.    If either the top or bottom depths, or the concentration of TDS in
                 identified Groundwater are uncertain or unknown based on
                 available sources of pertinent information as described in Rule
                 308.b.(6):

                 i.     The Operator will collect site-specific data sufficient to
                        ensure compliance with all casing and cementing
                        requirements of this Rule 408.e, and submit that information
                        in its casing and cementing plan or in an amended plan that




                                                                                      195
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         is approved by the Director before the Operator completes
                         the Well; or

                  ii.    The Operator’s casing and cementing plan will provide for
                         extending surface casing or cementing behind intermediate
                         and/or production casing to isolate all Groundwater where
                         TDS concentrations are uncertain or unknown. To isolate
                         Groundwater, where the top or bottom depth of Groundwater
                         is unknown or uncertain the Operator’s casing and
                         cementing plan will provide for:

                         aa.    Extending surface casing and cement from the
                                surface to 50 feet below the lowest bottom depth;

                         bb.    Stage cementing behind intermediate and/or
                                production casing to 50 feet above the highest top or
                                50 feet below the lowest bottom depth; or

                         cc.    Extending primary production cement from the bottom
                                of the casing to 50 feet above the highest top that is
                                not otherwise isolated by surface casing and cement
                                or alternate stage cement and casing string.

           C.     If Groundwater not identified in the casing and cementing plan is
                  encountered after setting the surface casing with either (a) a TDS
                  concentration less than 10,000 mg/l, or (b) unknown or uncertain
                  TDS concentration, the Operator will isolate the Groundwater by
                  stage cementing the intermediate and/or production casing with a
                  solid cement plug extending from 50 feet below the Groundwater to
                  50 feet above the Groundwater, with the Director’s approval. In
                  such cases the Operator will submit an amended casing and
                  cementing plan reflecting the Groundwater and stage cementing
                  within 20 days.

     (6)   All hole intervals drilled prior to reaching the base of the surface casing or
           as required by permit condition will be drilled with air, fresh water, or a
           fresh water-based bentonitic drilling mud. Any other additives will be
           reviewed and approved by the Director prior to use.

     (7)   All casing cemented in a Well will be steel casing.

     (8)   Prior to placing casing in the hole, the Operator will ensure the casing has
           been tested to verify integrity. An Operator may:

           A.     For new pipe only, use the mill test pressure;




                                                                                      196
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.    Hydrostatically pressure test the casing with an applied pressure at
                  least equal to the maximum pressure to which the pipe will be
                  subjected in the Well; or

            C.    Use a casing evaluation tool.

     (9)    Prior written approval from the Director on a Form 4 is required before
            commencing any of the following operations:

            A.    Pumping cement down the Bradenhead access to the Annulus
                  between the production casing (or intermediate casing, if present)
                  and surface casing;

            B.    All routine or planned casing repair operations; or

            C.    Any other changes to the casing or cement in the wellbore.

     (10)   In the case of unforeseen casing repairs during Well operations, the
            Operator will obtain oral approval from the Director, and will immediately
            submit a Form 4 confirming the repairs and approval.

     (11)   An Operator will submit a Form 5, Drilling Completion Report, within 30
            days of the completion of the operations listed above, pursuant to Rule
            414.b.(3).

     (12)   Prior written approval from the Director on a Form 4 is required before
            changing the gross interval of perforations in a completed formation,
            including into a formation designated as a common source of supply. A
            Form 5A, Completed Interval Report, will be submitted within 30 days of
            the gross interval change, pursuant to Rule 416.

f.   Cementing.

     (1)    Operators will use the pump and plug method. An Operator will use a top
            plug to reduce contamination of cement from the displacement of fluid. An
            Operator will use a bottom plug or other Director-approved isolation
            technique or equipment to reduce contamination from drilling mud within
            the casing.

     (2)    Unless the Director approves otherwise,

            A.    The diameter of the drilled hole in which surface casing will be set
                  and cemented will be at least 1.5 inches greater than the nominal
                  outside diameter of the casing the Operator will install; and

            B.    All other casing will be set and cemented with at least 0.84 inches
                  between the nominal outside diameter of the casing being
                  cemented and the previously set casing’s inside nominal diameter.



                                                                                      197
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   The Operator will design and place cement in a manner that inhibits
           channeling of the cement in the annular space outside of the casing being
           cemented. During placement of cement, the Operator will monitor pump
           rates to verify the rates remain within design parameters and ensure
           displacement meets the design. The Operator will monitor the cementing
           process to ensure proper cement densities are maintained.

     (4)   When cement is required, the Operator will use a cement slurry that
           isolates all Groundwater, hydrocarbon, corrosive, Potential Flow, or
           hydrogen sulfide zones.

     (5)   The Operator will prepare cement slurry to:

           A.    The designed density;

           B.    Minimize free fluid content, to the extent practicable;

           C.    Ensure cement slurry free water separation will not exceed 3
                 milliliters per 250 milliliters of cement; and

           D.    Ensure the cement mix water chemistry is appropriate for the
                 cement slurry design.

     (6)   The Operator or cement services provider will test a cement mixture at a
           rate that is the most frequent of every 6 months or when there is a change
           in operating conditions, cement type, or cement vendor.

           A.    The test will be on representative samples of the cement and
                 additives.

           B.    The Operator will make cement test data available to the Director
                 upon request.

g.   Casing Centralization.

     (1)   Surface casing. At a minimum, the Operator will centralize casing as
           follows:

           A.    Within 120 feet of the of the surface;

           B.    At the casing shoe;

           C.    Above and below a stage collar or diverting tool, if run; and

           D.    Every fourth joint.

           E.    The Operator may implement an alternative centralization plan for
                 surface casing if approved by the Director.




                                                                                  198
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Production and Intermediate Casing. The Operator will provide
           adequate centralization or other methods to achieve cementing objectives
           in accordance with the permitted Well design.

h.   Wellbore Circulation. Prior to cementing, the Operator will clean and condition
     the wellbore to control gas flow, foster adequate cement displacement, and
     ensure a bond between cement, casing, and the wellbore.

i.   Surface and Intermediate Casing Cementing.

     (1)   The Operator will ensure that all surface and intermediate casing cement
           required under this Rule 405.i achieves a minimum compressive strength
           of 300 psi after 24 hours and 800 psi after 72 hours measured at 800 psi
           confining pressure and 95⁰ Fahrenheit or at the minimum expected
           downhole temperature.

     (2)   The Operator will cement all surface casing with a continuous column from
           the bottom of the casing to the surface.

     (3)   After thorough circulation of the wellbore as required by Rule 408.h, the
           Operator will pump cement behind the intermediate casing to at least 500
           feet above the top of the shallowest known production horizon and as
           required in Rule 408. The Operator will allow cement placed behind the
           surface and intermediate casing to set a minimum of 8 hours or until 300
           psi calculated compressive strength is developed, whichever occurs first,
           prior to commencing drilling operations. If the surface casing cement level
           falls below the surface or if there is evidence of inadequate cement
           coverage, the Operator will consult with the Director and, upon request,
           provide and implement a corrective action plan prior to drilling ahead.

j.   Production Casing Cementing.

     (1)   The Operator will ensure that all cement required under this Rule 408
           placed behind production casing achieves a minimum compressive
           strength of at least 300 psi after 24 hours and of at least 800 psi after 72
           hours both measured at 800 psi at either 95° Fahrenheit or at the
           minimum expected downhole temperature.

     (2)   After thorough circulation of a wellbore as required by Rule 408.h, the
           Operator will pump cement behind the production casing to the shallower
           of: 500 feet above the top of the shallowest uncovered known producing
           horizon, isolation of specific geologic intervals specified in the permit, or
           isolation of any other zone as required by Rule 408.e.

k.   Surface Casing Pressure Testing.

     (1)   Prior to drilling out below the surface casing shoe, the Operator will
           successfully pressure test the surface casing for a minimum 30 minute



                                                                                     199
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           duration and to a minimum of 1,500 psi or to a pressure that will determine
           if the casing has adequate mechanical integrity to meet the Well design
           and construction objectives.

     (2)   If the surface casing is exposed to more than 360 rotating hours after
           reaching total depth or the depth of the next casing string, the Operator
           will verify the integrity of the surface casing before running the next casing
           string by using a casing evaluation tool, conducting a mechanical integrity
           test, or using an equivalent casing evaluation method submitted to and
           approved by the Director through a Form 4.

l.   Intermediate Casing Pressure Testing.

     (1)   Prior to drilling out below the intermediate casing shoe, the Operator will
           successfully pressure test the intermediate casing to ensure integrity is
           adequate to meet Well design and construction objectives. The Operator
           will perform the pressure test for a minimum 30-minute duration and to a
           minimum of 1,500 psi unless otherwise approved by the Director.

     (2)   The Operator will monitor the Well’s Bradenhead pressure during any
           pressure test conducted pursuant to Rule 408.l.

m.   Production Casing and Stimulation String Pressure Testing.

     (1)   Prior to Stimulation, the Operator will successfully pressure test the
           production casing or Stimulation string, if used. The Operator will pressure
           test from the wellhead to a minimum depth of 200 feet above the TVD of
           the top perforations.

     (2)   For production casing that will be exposed to Stimulation and the
           Stimulation string, the Operator will perform the pressure test for a
           minimum of 30 minutes and to a minimum of 500 psi greater than the
           maximum surface pressure anticipated to be imposed during the
           Stimulation.

     (3)   For Wells that are not Stimulated and production casing that will not be
           exposed to the Stimulation, the Operator will perform the pressure test for
           a minimum of 30 minutes and to a minimum of 500 psi greater than the
           maximum anticipated surface pressure.

     (4)   The Operator will monitor the Well’s Bradenhead pressure during any
           pressure test conducted pursuant to Rule 408.m.

n.   Casing Pressure Test Monitoring and Success Criteria for All Casing
     Strings.

     (1)   An Operator has successfully conducted a pressure test when:




                                                                                     200
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            A.     The surface pressure does not change more than 5% from the
                   initial test pressure;

            B.     The pressure does not change more than 1% during the last 5
                   minutes of the test; and

            C.     The Bradenhead pressure does not change more than 5% during
                   the test when testing the intermediate or production casings.

     (2)    In the event of an indication that a Well no longer has mechanical integrity,
            the Operator may not conduct stimulation on any Well on the Oil and Gas
            Location until the Operator has determined the Well has mechanical
            integrity. If a Well intervention is necessary, the Operator will obtain verbal
            approval from the Director for the intervention and authorization to
            proceed with the Stimulation.

o.   Isolation When Drilling Operations Are Suspended Before Running
     Production Casing. In the event drilling operations are suspended before
     production casing is run, the Operator will notify the Director immediately and will
     take adequate and proper precautions to prevent migration of oil, gas, and water
     between formations in the open hole until drilling resumes or the Well is Plugged
     and Abandoned.

p.   Protection of Productive Strata During Deepening Operations. If a Well is
     deepened for the purpose of producing oil and gas from a lower stratum, such
     deepening to and completion in the lower stratum will be conducted in such a
     manner as to protect all upper productive strata.

q.   Requirement to Evaluate Disposal Zones for Hydrocarbon Potential. If a
     Well is drilled as a disposal Well then the Injection Zone will be evaluated for
     hydrocarbon potential. The proposed hydrocarbon evaluation method will be
     submitted in writing and approved by the Director prior to implementation. The
     productivity results will be submitted to the Director upon completion of the Well.

r.   Requirement to Log Well. For all new drilling operations, the Operator will run a
     minimum of a resistivity Log with gamma-ray or other petrophysical Log(s)
     approved by the Director that adequately describe the stratigraphy of the
     wellbore. A cement bond Log, capable of generating a variable density display,
     will be run on all production casing or, in the case of a production liner, the
     intermediate casing, when these casing strings are run. The Operator will submit
     these Logs and all other Logs run with the Form 5. The Operator will run open-
     hole Logs or equivalent cased-hole Logs at depths that adequately verify the
     setting depth of surface casing and any Groundwater coverage. These
     requirements will not apply to unlogged open-hole completion intervals.

s.   Remedial Cementing. If cement coverage in any casing string does not satisfy
     the requirements of Rule 408.e, the Director may apply a condition of approval
     for Form 2 to require remedial cementing and a cement bond log or other cement



                                                                                       201
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     evaluation tool before recompletion, reentering, or deepening operations
     consistent with the provisions for isolating Groundwater and hydrocarbon bearing
     zones in this Rule 408.

t.   Statewide Wellbore Collision Prevention. An Operator will perform an anti-
     collision evaluation of all active (producing, shut in, or temporarily abandoned)
     offset wellbores that have the potential of being within 150 feet of a proposed
     Well prior to drilling operations for the proposed Well. The Operator will give
     notice to all offset Operators prior to drilling.

u.   Statewide Setback for Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment.

     (1)    No portion of a proposed wellbore that will be treated by hydraulic
            fracturing may be located within 150 feet of an existing (producing, shut-in,
            or temporarily abandoned) or permitted interval of an oil and gas wellbore
            that has been or will be treated by hydraulic fracturing belonging to
            another Operator without the signed written consent of the Operator of the
            encroached upon wellbore. The Operator will attach any signed written
            consents to the Form 2 for the proposed wellbore.

     (2)    The Operator will measure the distance between the proposed and offset
            wellbores using the directional survey for drilled wellbores and the
            deviated drilling plan for permitted wellbores, or as otherwise reflected in
            the Commission’s Well records. The Operator will measure the distance
            from the perforation or mechanical isolation device.

v.   Notice Prior to Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment. At least 90 days prior to the
     anticipated commencement of Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, the Operator of
     the wellbore that will be stimulated by Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment will provide
     notice of Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment commencement to all Operators of
     offset Wells that were identified pursuant Rule 308.b.(7).A.

w.   Offset Wellheads and Surface Equipment. Prior to Hydraulic Fracturing
     Treatments, the Operator will ensure offset existing Wells within 1,500 feet of the
     wellbore to be hydraulically fractured that are producing, shut-in, or temporarily
     abandoned have surface equipment (wellhead and master valve) rated to a
     pressure adequate to contain anticipated surface pressures that could occur from
     the proposed Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment. For offset Wells that do not have
     adequately rated surface equipment, the Operator may instead use downhole
     mechanical isolation above perforations in the objective formation to prevent
     unanticipated migration of pressure.

x.   Consent to Offset Well Mitigation. When an offset Well and a proposed Well
     are under different operatorship, the Operator of the offset Well will not refuse to
     have the offset Well appropriately mitigated to meet the requirements of the
     Commission’s Rules necessary to ensure protection of and minimize adverse
     impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.




                                                                                     202
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

y.     Communication Prevention. An Operator will take all necessary measures to
       prevent communication along any known conduits between a wellbore’s
       hydraulic fracturing-treated interval and Groundwater.

z.     Surface Equipment Used in Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment. Prior to
       beginning a Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, the Operator will rig up and pressure
       test any surface equipment exposed to Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment pressure.
       The Operator will test for the proposed Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment design
       and, at a minimum, to 110% of the maximum anticipated surface Hydraulic
       Fracturing Treatment pressure. The test will ensure an appropriate safety factor
       and prevent Fluid losses.

aa.    Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment Monitoring. The Operator will monitor and
       record Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment parameters including but not limited to the
       following list:

       (1)   Surface injection pressure (psig);

       (2)   Slurry rate (bpm);

       (3)   Proppant concentration (ppg);

       (4)   Fluid rate (bpm);

       (5)   Identities, rates, and concentrations of additives used; and

       (6)   All other annuli pressures or volumes measured at the surface.

409. REPORT OF RESERVOIR PRESSURE TEST. Where the Director believes it
is necessary to prevent waste, protect correlative rights, or to protect and
minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
wildlife resources, the Director may require subsurface pressure measurements.
Whenever such measurements are made, results will be reported on a Form 13,
Bottom Hole Pressure, within 20 days after completion of tests, or submitted on
any company form approved by the Director containing the same information.

410.   DIRECTIONAL DRILLING

a.     Deviated Drilling Plan.

       (1)   If an Operator intends to drill a deviated (directional, highly deviated, or
             horizontal) wellbore utilizing controlled directional drilling methods, the
             Operator will prepare a deviated drilling plan that includes sufficient data
             to describe the location of the wellbore in three dimensions from not
             greater than 500 feet below the surface of the ground to total depth.

       (2)   The Operator will file the deviated drilling plan with the Form 2 in a format
             approved by the Director.



                                                                                       203
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.     Directional Survey for a Deviated Wellbore.

       (1)   For an intentionally drilled deviated wellbore the Operator will perform a
             directional survey of the wellbore in a manner to gather sufficient data to
             describe the location of the wellbore in three dimensions and from not
             greater than 500 feet below the surface of the ground to total depth.

       (2)   The directional survey will be included with the Form 5, and in a format
             approved by the Director.

c.     Inclination Survey for a Non-deviated Wellbore.

       (1)   For a newly drilled non-deviated wellbore or for the re-entry, recompletion
             or deepening of an existing wellbore, the Operator will perform an
             inclination survey of the wellbore and file the inclination survey with the
             Form 5.

       (2)   The first shot point of such inclination survey will be made at a depth not
             greater than 500 feet below the surface, and succeeding shot points will
             be made either at 500-foot intervals or at the nearest drill bit change
             thereto, but will not exceed 1,000 feet apart. The inclination survey may be
             made either during the normal course of drilling or after the Well has
             reached total depth. A directional survey meeting the requirements of Rule
             410.b may be filed in lieu of an inclination survey.

       (3)   In the event a Form 5 is not required for re-entry, recompletion, or
             deepening of an existing wellbore, the Operator will file the inclination
             survey with a Form 4.

       (4)   The survey will be provided in a format approved by the Director.

d.     Wellbore Setback Compliance. The Operator will ensure that the wellbore
       complies with the setback requirements in the Commission’s orders or Rules
       prior to producing the Well.

411.   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM PROTECTION

a.     Surface Water Supply Areas.

       (1)   Definition. A Surface Water Supply Area is the buffer zones listed in Rule
             411.a.(1).B surrounding a Classified Water Supply Segment that includes
             5 stream miles upstream from a Public Water System surface water
             intake.

             A.     Calculating Buffer Zone Distances. Operators will identify buffer
                    zones by measuring from the ordinary high-water mark of a
                    Classified Water Supply Segment to the nearest edge of the
                    Working Pad Surface.



                                                                                         204
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    Buffer Zones.

                 i.     The internal buffer zone is located between 0 and 1,000 feet
                        hydraulically upgradient from a Classified Water Supply
                        Segment.

                 ii.    The intermediate buffer zone is located between 1,001 and
                        1,500 feet hydraulically upgradient from a Classified Water
                        Supply Segment.

                 iii.   The external buffer zone is located between 1,501 and 2,640
                        feet hydraulically upgradient from a Classified Water Supply
                        Segment.

           C.    The buffer zones identified by Rule 411.a.(1).B. may be modified by
                 the Commission as a component of reviewing a proposed Oil and
                 Gas Development Plan pursuant to Rule 307 or a hearing pursuant
                 to Rule 503.a to include additional tributaries, including ephemeral
                 streams, if the Director, Public Water System, or CDPHE
                 demonstrate that modification is necessary to protect the Public
                 Water System surface water intake from risks of spills or releases.
                 In making such a determination, the Commission will consider
                 whether Best Management Practices the Operator proposes to
                 employ will provide sufficient protections to tributaries such that
                 modifying the buffer zones is not necessary.

     (2)   Protections. Operators will comply with the standards established in
           Rules 411.a.(2).A–C below for the buffer zone in which the Working Pad
           Surface is proposed or located, and with all standards for zones farther
           from the Classified Water Supply Segment.

           A.    Internal Buffer Zone.

                 i.     After January 15, 2021, Operators will not conduct any new
                        surface disturbance within the internal buffer zone of a
                        Surface Water Supply Area identified in Rule 411.a.(1).B.i.

                 ii.    Operators of any existing Oil and Gas Locations located
                        within the internal buffer zone of a Surface Water Supply
                        Area identified in Rule 411.a.(1).B.i will submit a Form 2A to
                        the Director prior to conducting any new surface disturbing
                        activities, or a Form 4 prior to conducting any subsequent
                        well operations pursuant to Rule 312 or making significant
                        changes to the Oil and Gas Operations at the existing
                        locations.

                        aa.    The Director will review the Form 4 and may add any
                               conditions of approval necessary and reasonable to



                                                                                   205
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                              protect public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                              and wildlife resources from potential impacts of the
                              surface disturbance, subsequent well operations, or
                              significant changes.

                       bb.    If an Operator proposes to construct an access road,
                              pipeline, or other necessary infrastructure, the
                              Operator will describe the necessity of the proposed
                              infrastructure on the Form 4, and the Director will
                              evaluate whether the proposed infrastructure is
                              necessary for ongoing Oil and Gas Operations.

                       cc.    The Operator will provide the Form 4 to the
                              administrator of all potentially impacted Public Water
                              Systems at the same time Operator submits the Form
                              4 to the Director.

                iii.   Only the Commission may grant a variance to Rules
                       411.a.(2).A.i & ii. If an Operator seeks a variance from Rules
                       411.a.(2).A.i or ii, the Operator will consult with CDPHE and
                       the Public Water System prior to the Commission holding a
                       hearing to grant or deny the variance pursuant to Rule
                       502.b. The Commission will only grant a variance to Rules
                       411.a.(2).A.i or ii if the Operator demonstrates that the
                       proposed Oil and Gas Operations and applicable Best
                       Management Practices and operating procedures will result
                       in substantially equivalent protection of drinking water quality
                       for the Surface Water Supply Area. If the relevant Public
                       Water System(s) agree to waive the requirements of Rules
                       411.a.(2).A.i or ii, the Operator will provide evidence of the
                       waiver to the Commission. A waiver from all relevant Public
                       Water Systems will create a presumption that a variance will
                       be granted if the Operator also demonstrates that Best
                       Management Practices and operating procedures will result
                       in substantially equivalent protection of drinking water
                       quality.

          B.    Intermediate Buffer Zone. After January 15, 2021, at all new and
                existing Oil and Gas Locations within a Surface Water Supply Area
                intermediate buffer zone identified in Rule 411.a.(1).B.ii, in addition
                to the protections required by Rule 411.a.(2).C, Operators will:

                i.     Contain Flowback and Stimulation fluids in Tanks that are
                       placed on a Working Pad Surface in an area with
                       downgradient perimeter berming;




                                                                                    206
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                ii.    Construct lined berms or other lined containment devices
                       pursuant to Rule 603.o around any new crude oil,
                       condensate, and produced water storage Tanks that are
                       installed after January 15, 2021;

                iii.   Inspect the Oil and Location on a daily basis, unless a Form
                       2A approved prior to January 15, 2021 provides for less
                       frequent inspections pursuant to any prior Commission Rule;

                iv.    Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at the Oil and
                       Gas Location during drilling and completion operations; and

                v.     Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that Operators may
                       continue to utilize existing Pits that were properly permitted,
                       constructed, operated, and maintained in compliance prior to
                       January 15, 2021.

          C.    External Buffer Zone. After January 15, 2021, at all new and
                existing Oil and Gas Locations in the Surface Water Supply Area
                external buffer zone identified in Rule 411.a.(1).B.iii, Operators will:

                i.     Utilize pitless drilling systems; and

                ii.    Conduct baseline surface water sampling prior to drilling or
                       completing any new Wells, or re-completing or restimulating
                       any existing Well.

                       aa.    Sampling Location. Operators will sample from the
                              Classified Water Supply Segment immediately
                              downgradient of the Oil and Gas Location.

                       bb.    Sampling Timing. Operators will take one sample
                              prior to drilling a Well, and at least one follow-up
                              sample from the same location 90 days after the
                              Wells at the Oil and Gas Location are completed.

                       cc.    Sampling Methods. Operators will obtain analysis of
                              the water samples from laboratories that maintain
                              state or nationally accredited programs and utilize
                              currently-applicable EPA-approved analytical
                              methods.

                       dd.    Reporting Data. Operators will submit a Form 43,
                              Analytical Sample Submittal to the Commission
                              containing the results of each sample analysis within
                              60 days of collecting the sample. Operators will
                              simultaneously submit the Form 43 to the




                                                                                    207
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                              administrator of all potentially impacted Public Water
                              Systems.

                        ee.   Analytes. Operators will analyze samples collected
                              pursuant to this Rule 411.a.(2).C.ii for the following
                              constituents:

                              1.     pH;

                              2.     Alkalinity (total bicarbonate and carbonate as
                                     CaCO3);

                              3.     Specific conductance;

                              4.     Major cations (calcium, iron, magnesium,
                                     manganese, potassium, sodium);

                              5.     Major anions (bromide, chloride, fluoride,
                                     sulfate, nitrate and nitrate as N, and
                                     phosphorus);

                              6.     Total dissolved solids;

                              7.     BTEX compounds (benzene, toluene,
                                     ethylbenzene, and total xylenes);

                              8.     Diesel Range Organics (DRO – C10 to C36) and
                                     Gasoline Range Organics (GRO – C6 to C10);

                              9.     Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (including
                                     those listed as Organic Compounds in Soils in
                                     Table 915-1); and

                              10.    Metals (including those listed as Metals in Soils
                                     in Table 915-1).

     (3)   Consultation. If an Operator submits a Form 2A for a proposed Oil and
           Gas Location within a Surface Water Supply Area identified in Rule
           411.a.(1), the Operator will engage in a Formal Consultation Process with
           any potentially impacted Public Water System pursuant to Rule 309.g. The
           Formal Consultation Process will address any additional Best
           Management Practices that should be applied for the protection of the
           Public Water System. If the Public Water System determines that the
           proposed Oil and Gas Location may impact ephemeral streams upstream
           and in direct hydraulic communication with a Surface Water Supply Area,
           the Formal Consultation Process will address the necessity of applying
           setbacks or mitigation measures to ephemeral streams.




                                                                                  208
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Spill and Release Notification & Emergency Response.

           A.    Applicability. This Rule 411.a.(4) applies to Operators of all new
                 and existing Oil and Gas Locations with a Working Pad Surface
                 within 2,640 feet of surface water that is 15 miles or less upstream
                 from a surface water Public Water System intake.

           B.    Emergency Response Plan Requirements. Emergency response
                 plans maintained by Operators pursuant to Rule 602.j will include
                 current contact information for the administrators of all Public Water
                 Systems with a surface water intake within 15 miles downstream.

           C.    Spill and Release Notification. No later than when the Operator
                 provides the Director with notice pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1), the
                 Operator will notify the administrators of all Public Water Systems
                 with a surface water intake within 15 miles downstream in the event
                 of a Spill or Release if the Spill or Release is reportable pursuant to
                 Rule 912.b.(1).A and has the potential to impact the Public Water
                 System.

b.   Groundwater Under the Direct Influence of Surface Water & Type III Aquifer
     Wells.

     (1)   Definitions.

           A.    Groundwater Under the Direct Influence of Surface Water (“GUDI”)
                 means any water beneath the surface of the ground with:

                 i.       Significant occurrence of insects or other macro-organisms,
                          algae, or large-diameter pathogens such as Giardia lamblia
                          or Cryptosporidium; or

                 ii.      Significant and relatively rapid shifts in water characteristics
                          such as turbidity, temperature, conductivity, or pH, which
                          closely correlate to climatological or surface water
                          conditions.

           B.    Groundwater Under the Direct Influence of Surface Water Well
                 (“GUDI Well”) means a Public Water System that is supplied by a
                 well under the direct influence of surface water.

           C.    Type III Aquifer means an Aquifer that consists of unconsolidated
                 geologic material including alluvial, colluvial or other unconsolidated
                 materials, as defined in the Colorado State Board of Examiners of
                 Water Well Construction and Pump Installation Contractors, Rules
                 and Regulations for Water Well Construction, Pump Installation,
                 Cistern Installation, and Monitoring and Observation Hole/Well
                 Construction, 2 C.C.R. § 402-2:5.2.2.3 (2020) (hereinafter “State



                                                                                       209
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 Engineer’s Water Well Construction and Permitting Rules”). Only
                 the January 15, 2021 version of the State Engineer’s Water Well
                 Construction and Permitting Rules applies to this Rule; later
                 amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by reference
                 in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal
                 business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of
                 the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado
                 80203. In addition, the State Engineer’s Water Well Construction
                 and Permitting Rules are available from the State Engineer’s Office,
                 1313 Sherman St., Suite 821, Denver, CO 80203, and are available
                 online at https://dwr.colorado.gov/services/well-construction-
                 inspection#water-well-construction-rules. Type III Aquifers may
                 contain localized impermeable layers that do not act as hydraulic
                 boundaries between distinct Aquifers. A common example of a
                 Type III Aquifer is an alluvial Aquifer.

           D.    Type III Well means a Public Water System supply well completed
                 in a Type III Aquifer.

     (2)   Buffer Zones.

           A.    The internal buffer zone is located between 0 and 1,000 feet from a
                 GUDI Well or Type III Well.

           B.    The intermediate buffer zone is located between 1,001 and 1,500
                 feet from a GUDI Well or Type III Well.

           C.    The external buffer zone is located between 1,501 and 2,640 feet
                 from a GUDI Well or Type III Well.

     (3)   Protections. Operators will comply with the standards established below
           for the buffer zone in which the Working Pad Surface is proposed or
           located and with all standards for zones farther from the GUDI Well or
           Type III Well.

           A.    Internal Buffer Zone.

                 i.     After January 15, 2021, Operators will not conduct any new
                        surface disturbance within the internal buffer zone of a GUDI
                        Well or Type III Well identified in Rule 411.b.(2).A.

                 ii.    Only the Commission may grant a variance to Rule
                        411.b.(3).A.i. If an Operator seeks a variance from Rule
                        411.b.(3).A.i, the Operator will consult with CDPHE and the
                        Public Water System prior to the Commission holding a
                        hearing to grant or deny the variance pursuant to Rule
                        502.b. The Commission will only grant a variance to Rule
                        411.b.(3).A.i if the Operator demonstrates that the proposed



                                                                                 210
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        Oil and Gas Operations and applicable Best Management
                        Practices and operating procedures will result in
                        substantially equivalent protection of drinking water quality
                        for the GUDI Well or Type III Well. If the relevant Public
                        Water System(s) agree to waive the requirements of Rule
                        411.b.(3).A.i, the Operator will provide evidence of the
                        waiver to the Commission. A waiver from all relevant Public
                        Water System(s) will create a presumption that a variance
                        will be granted if the Operator also demonstrates that Best
                        Management Practices and operating procedures will result
                        in substantially equivalent protection of drinking water
                        quality.

                 iii.   Operators of new Oil and Gas Locations within the internal
                        buffer zone of a GUDI Well or Type III Well identified in Rule
                        411.b.(2).A will adhere to all requirements for operations
                        within the internal buffer zone of a Surface Water Supply
                        Area pursuant to Rule 411.a.(2).A.

           B.    Intermediate Buffer Zone. After January 15, 2021, Operators of
                 new Oil and Gas Locations within the internal buffer zone of a
                 GUDI Well or Type III Well identified in Rule 411.b.(2).B will adhere
                 to all requirements for operations within the intermediate buffer
                 zone of a Surface Water Supply Area pursuant to Rule 411.a.(2).B.

           C.    External Buffer Zone. After January 15, 2021, Operators will
                 utilize pitless drilling systems at all new and existing Oil and Gas
                 Locations within the external buffer zone of a GUDI Well or Type III
                 Well identified in Rule 411.b.(2).C.

     (4)   Consultation. If an Operator submits a Form 2A for a proposed Oil and
           Gas Location within 2,640 feet of a GUDI Well or Type III Well, the
           Operator will engage in a Formal Consultation Process with the
           administrator of the Public Water System that operates the GUDI Well or
           Type III Well pursuant to Rule 309.g. The Formal Consultation Process
           will address:

           A.    Any Best Management Practices that should be applied;

           B.    Whether Groundwater monitoring is necessary. Although the
                 Operator and Public Water System may determine that
                 Groundwater monitoring is necessary in other circumstances, at a
                 minimum Groundwater monitoring will be necessary if:

                 i.     The Public Water System determines that Groundwater
                        monitoring is necessary;




                                                                                  211
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                    ii.    Installation of one or more Groundwater monitoring wells
                           does not pose significant, unusual, or unique risks of
                           contamination to the Aquifer; and

                    iii.   Suitable locations for one or more Groundwater monitoring
                           wells exist between the proposed Oil and Gas Location and
                           the GUDI Well or Type III Well and in other appropriate
                           locations to determine groundwater gradient; and

             C.     Whether protection of recharge facilities is necessary. If the Public
                    Water System determines that the proposed Oil and Gas Location
                    may impact engineered structures that enable recharge to the
                    Public Water System in the vicinity of a GUDI Well or Type III Well,
                    the Formal Consultation Process will address the necessity of
                    applying setbacks or mitigation measures to such recharge
                    facilities.

       (5)   Spill and Release Notification & Emergency Response.

             A.     Applicability. This Rule 411.b.(5) applies to Operators of all new
                    and existing Oil and Gas Locations with a Working Pad Surface
                    within 2,640 feet of a GUDI Well or Type III Well.

             B.     Emergency Response Plan Requirements. Emergency response
                    plans maintained by Operators pursuant to Rule 602.j will include
                    current contact information for the administrators of all Public Water
                    Systems with a GUDI Well or Type III Well within 2,640 feet of the
                    Working Pad Surface.

             C.     Spill and Release Notification. No later than when the Operator
                    provides notice to the Director pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1), the
                    Operator will notify the administrators of all Public Water Systems
                    with a GUDI Well or Type III Well within 2,640 feet of a Spill or
                    Release that is reportable pursuant to Rules 912.b.(1).A, F, G, or J.

       (6)   Reporting Groundwater Monitoring Data. If Groundwater monitoring is
             required pursuant to Rule 411.b.(4).B, the Operator will submit a Form 43
             to report data from the monitoring well(s) for each of the analytes listed in
             Rule 411.a.(2).C.ii.ee at a frequency specified as a condition of approval
             on the Operator’s Form 2A.

412.   SURFACE OWNER NOTICE

a.     Statutory Notice to Surface Owners. Not less than 30 days in advance of
       commencement of operations with heavy equipment for the drilling of a Well,
       Operators will provide the statutorily required notice to the Well Site Surface
       Owner(s) as described below and the Relevant Local Government. Notice to the
       Surface Owner may be waived in writing by the Surface Owner.



                                                                                       212
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Surface Owner Notice is not required on federal- or Indian-owned surface
           lands.

     (2)   Surface Owner Notice will be delivered by hand; certified mail, return-
           receipt requested; or by other delivery service with receipt confirmation.
           Electronic mail may be used if the Surface Owner has approved such use
           in writing.

     (3)   The Surface Owner Notice will provide:

           A.    The Operator’s name and contact information for the Operator or its
                 agent;

           B.    A site diagram or plat of the proposed Well location and any
                 associated roads and Production Facilities;

           C.    The date operations with heavy equipment are expected to
                 commence;

           D.    A copy of the COGCC Informational Brochure for Surface Owners;
                 and

           E.    A postage-paid, return-addressed post card whereby the Surface
                 Owner may request consultation pursuant to Rule 309.

     (4)   Notice of Subsequent Operations. An Operator will provide to the
           Surface Owner or the Surface Owner’s appointed agent and the Relevant
           Local Government at least 7 days advance notice of subsequent
           operations with a rig or heavy equipment that will materially impact surface
           areas beyond the existing access road or Oil and Gas Location, including
           but not limited to all operations listed in Rule 312.a.

     (5)   Notice During Irrigation Season. If a Well is to be drilled on irrigated
           Crop Land or may interfere with other agricultural activities, the Operator
           will contact the Surface Owner or agent at least 14 days prior to
           commencement of operations with heavy equipment to coordinate drilling
           operations to avoid unreasonable interference with irrigation plans and
           agricultural activities.

     (6)   Final Reclamation Notice. Not less than 30 days before any final
           Reclamation operations are to take place pursuant to Rule 1004, the
           Operator will notify the Surface Owner. Final Reclamation operations will
           mean those Reclamation operations to be undertaken when a Well is to
           be Plugged and Abandoned or when Production Facilities are to be
           permanently removed. Such notice is required only where final
           Reclamation operations commence more than 30 days after the
           completion of a Well.




                                                                                   213
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Move-In, Rig-Up Notice.

     (1)   At least 30 Days, but no more than 90 days, before moving in and rigging
           up a drilling rig, the Operator will provide Move-In, Rig-Up (“MIRU”) Notice
           to all Surface Owners, Building Unit owners and tenants within 2,000 feet
           of the Working Pad Surface if:

           A.     It has been more than one year since the previous notice or since
                  drilling activity last occurred, or

           B.     Notice was not previously required.

     (2)   The Operator may rely on the county assessor tax records to identify
           Building Unit Owners within 2,000 feet of the Working Pad Surface
           receiving the MIRU Notice.

     (3)   The Operator will provide notice to the physical address of all parcels of
           land within 2,000 feet of the Working Pad Surface receiving the MIRU
           Notice.

     (4)   MIRU Notice will be delivered by hand; certified mail, with return-receipt
           requested; electronic mail, with return receipt requested, delivery
           confirmation, or by other delivery service with delivery confirmation.

     (5)   The MIRU Notice will include:

           A.     A statement informing the Building Unit Owner and tenant that the
                  Operator intends to move in and rig up a drilling rig to drill Wells
                  within 2,000 feet of their Building Unit;

           B.     The Operator’s contact information where it may be reached 24-
                  hours a day;

           C.     The legal location of the proposed Wells (Quarter-Quarter, Section,
                  Township, Range, County);

           D.     The approximate street address of the proposed Well locations
                  (Street Number, Name, City);

           E.     The name and number of the proposed Wells, including the API
                  Number if the Form 2 has been approved or the eForm Document
                  Number if the Form 2 is pending approval;

           F.     The anticipated date (day, month, year) the drilling rig will move in
                  and rig up;

           G.     The Commission’s website address and telephone number; and




                                                                                     214
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             H.     The estimated duration of time (which may be a range) that the
                    drilling rig will be onsite and an indication of whether multiple drilling
                    operations are planned for the Oil and Gas Location.

       (6)   A Surface Owner or Building Unit owner entitled to receive MIRU Notice
             may waive their right in writing at any time.

       (7)   An Operator may request an exception to this Rule and provide MIRU
             Notice less than 30 days prior to moving in and rigging up a drilling rig for
             good cause.

413.   FORM 7, OPERATOR'S MONTHLY REPORT OF OPERATIONS

a.     Operators will report all existing oil and gas Wells that are not Plugged and
       Abandoned on the Form 7, Operator’s Monthly Report of Operations within 45
       days after the end of each month.

       (1)   Operators will report a Well every month from the month that it is Spud
             until it has been Plugged and Abandoned and reported for one month as
             abandoned. In addition to their Producing and Injecting and Plugged and
             Abandoned Wells, Operators will identify and list all Drilling, Shut-In Wells,
             Suspended Operations, Temporarily Abandoned Wells, and Waiting On
             Completion Wells on their Form 7 reports.

       (2)   Operators will report each formation that is completed in a Well every
             month from the time that it is completed until it has been abandoned and
             reported for one month as abandoned.

b.     Operators will report the volume of produced Fluids and any gas or Fluids used
       during enhanced recovery unit operations injected into a Class II UIC Well on a
       Form 7 within 45 days after the end of each month. The reported volumes will
       include all Fluids produced during Flowback, initial testing, Completion, and
       production of the Well. Produced Fluids include, but are not limited to, produced
       water and Fluids recovered during drilling, casing cementing, pressure testing,
       Completion, workover, and formation Stimulation of all Wells including
       production, exploration, injection, service and monitoring Wells.

c.     Operators will report the volume of any non-produced Class II Fluids not listed in
       Rule 413.b injected into a Class II UIC Well on a Form 14, Monthly Report of
       Non-Produced Water Injected pursuant to Rule 808.b.

414.   FORM 5, DRILLING COMPLETION REPORT

a.     Form 5, Preliminary Drilling Completion Report.

       (1)   If drilling is suspended prior to reaching total depth and does not
             recommence within 90 days, an Operator will submit a Form 5,
             Preliminary Drilling Completion Report within the next 10 days.



                                                                                         215
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Information Requirements. The Form 5, Preliminary Drilling Completion
           Report will include the following information:

           A.     The date drilling activity was suspended;

           B.     The reason for the suspension;

           C.     The anticipated date and method of resumption of drilling; and

           D.     The details of all work performed to date, including all the
                  information required in Rule 414.b.(2) that has been obtained.

     (3)   A Form 5, Final Drilling Completion Report will be submitted after reaching
           total depth as required by Rule 414.b.

b.   Form 5, Final Drilling Completion Report.

     (1)   A Form 5, Final Drilling Completion Report will be submitted within 60
           days of rig release after drilling, sidetracking, or deepening a Well to total
           depth. In the case of continuous, sequential drilling of multiple Wells on a
           pad, the Form 5, Final Drilling Completion Report will be submitted for all
           the Wells within 60 days of rig release for the last Well drilled on the pad.

     (2)   Information Requirements. The Form 5, Final Drilling Completion Report
           will include the following information:

           A.     A cement job summary for every casing string set or required by
                  permit conditions will be attached to the form. The cement
                  summary report will include cement reports and charts related to
                  cement placement, which will include:

                  i.     Daily operations summary; and

                  ii.    Cement verification reports from the cementing contractor.

           B.     All Logs run, open-hole and cased-hole, electric, mechanical, mud,
                  or other, will be reported and submitted as specified here:

                  i.     A digital image file (PDF, TIFF, PDS, or other format
                         approved by the Director) of every Log run will be attached
                         to the form. The digital image file of the cement bond Log will
                         include a variable density display.

                  ii.    A digital data file (LAS, DLIS, or other format approved by
                         the Director) of every Log run, with the exception of mud
                         Logs and cement bond Logs, will be attached to the form.




                                                                                      216
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             C.     All drill stem tests will be reported and test results will be attached
                    to the form.

             D.     All cores will be reported and the core analyses attached to the
                    form. If core analyses are not yet available, the Operator will note
                    this on the Form 5 and provide a copy of the analyses as soon as it
                    is available, via a Form 4.

             E.     Any directional survey will be attached to the form and will meet the
                    requirements set forth in Rule 410.

             F.     The latitude and longitude coordinates of the as drilled Well location
                    will be reported on the form. The latitude and longitude coordinates
                    will be in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five
                    decimals of a degree using the North American Datum (“NAD”) of
                    1983 (e.g., latitude 37.12345, longitude -104.45632). If GPS
                    technology is utilized to determine the latitude and longitude, all
                    GPS data will meet the requirements set forth in Rule 216. The
                    Operator will report the accuracy value expressed in meters and
                    the date of the GPS measurement on the Form 5.

             G.     The Bradenhead pressure action threshold, which is calculated as
                    30% of the TVD in feet of the surface casing shoe expressed in
                    psig.

       (3)   The Operator will submit a Form 5 within 30 days of the completion of Well
             operations in which the casing or cement in the wellbore is changed.
             Changes to the wellbore casing or cement configuration include, but are
             not limited to, the operations listed in Rule 408.e.(5). The Form 5 will
             include the information required by Rule 414.b.(2). The form will include
             the following attachments:

             A.     Daily operations summary;

             B.     Cement verification reports from the contractor; and

             C.     Cement bond Log(s) if run by Rule, choice, or as a required
                    condition of the repair approval, submitted pursuant to Rule
                    414.b.(2).B.

415.   COMMINGLING

a.     The commingling of production from multiple formations or Wells is encouraged
       in order to maximize the efficient use of wellbores and to minimize the surface
       disturbance from Oil and Gas Operations. Commingling may be conducted at the
       discretion of an Operator without prior Commission approval, unless:




                                                                                         217
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)    The Operator proposes to conduct commingling at an existing Well
              through a procedure that requires prior Director approval pursuant to Rule
              312.a; or

       (2)    The Commission has issued an order or promulgated a Rule excluding
              specific Wells, geologic formations, geographic areas, or Fields from
              commingling in response to an application filed by a directly and adversely
              affected or aggrieved party or on the Commission’s own motion.

b.     This Rule 415 supersedes the procedural requirements to establish commingling
       and allocation contained in any Commission order as of the effective date of this
       Rule 415, but does not supersede any allocation made under such order.

416.   FORM 5A, COMPLETED INTERVAL REPORT

a.     The Operator will submit the Form 5A, Completed Interval Report for a formation
       within 30 days after the following operations:

       (1)    Any Stimulation or re-stimulation;

       (2)    Any Productivity Test (successful or not), if there is no Stimulation;

       (3)    Any reperforation or change in the perforated interval if there is no
              Stimulation;

       (4)    Commingling with another formation;

       (5)    Temporary abandonment; or

       (6)    Permanent abandonment of the formation if the Well is not to be
              abandoned.

b.     The Operator will report the details of any Stimulation performed including, but
       not limited to, Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment and acidizing Stimulation.

c.     In order to resolve completed interval information uncertainties, the Director may
       require an Operator to submit further information in an additional Form 5A.

417.   MECHANICAL INTEGRITY TESTING

For the purpose of this Rule, a mechanical integrity test of a Well is a test to determine if
there is a significant leak in the Well’s casing, tubing, or mechanical isolation device, or
if there is significant Fluid movement through vertical channels to other formations.

a.     Injection Wells. A mechanical integrity test will be performed on all injection
       Wells.




                                                                                         218
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   The mechanical integrity test will include one of the following tests to
           determine whether significant leaks are present in the casing, tubing, or
           mechanical isolation device:

           A.     Isolation of the tubing-casing Annulus with a packer set at 100 feet
                  or less above the highest open Injection Zone perforation, unless
                  an alternate isolation distance is approved in writing by the Director.
                  The pressure test will be with liquid or gas at a pressure of not less
                  than 300 psi or the average injection pressure, whichever is
                  greater, and not more than the maximum permitted injection
                  pressure;

           B.     The monitoring and reporting to the Director, on a monthly basis for
                  60 consecutive months, of the average casing-tubing Annulus
                  pressure, following an initial pressure test; or

           C.     Any equivalent test or combination of tests approved by the
                  Director.

     (2)   The mechanical integrity test will include one of the following tests to
           determine whether there are significant Fluid movements in vertical
           channels adjacent to the wellbore:

           A.     Cementing records which will only be valid for injection Wells in
                  existence prior to July 1, 1986;

           B.     Tracer surveys;

           C.     Cement bond log or other acceptable cement evaluation log;

           D.     Temperature surveys; or

           E.     Any other equivalent test or combination of tests approved by the
                  Director.

     (3)   No person will inject fluids via a new injection Well unless a mechanical
           integrity test on the Well has been performed and supporting documents
           including Form 21, Mechanical Integrity Test, submitted and approved by
           the Director. Oral approval may be granted for continuous injection
           following a successful test.

     (4)   Following the performance of the initial mechanical integrity test required
           by Rule 417.a.(3), additional mechanical integrity tests will be performed
           on each type of injection Well as follows:

           A.     Class II UIC Well. As long as it is used for the injection of Fluids,
                  mechanical integrity tests will be performed at the rate of not less
                  than 1 test every 5 years, except as specified by Rule 417.a.(4).C



                                                                                      219
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                   below. Five year periods will commence on the date the initial
                   mechanical integrity test is performed or the date of a mechanical
                   integrity test specified in Rule 417.a.(4).C below.

            B.     Simultaneous Injection Well. No additional tests will be required
                   after the initial mechanical integrity test.

            C.     All Injection Wells. A new mechanical integrity test will be
                   performed after any casing repairs, after resetting the tubing or
                   mechanical isolation device, or whenever the tubing or mechanical
                   isolation devise is moved during workover operations.

     (5)    All injection Well mechanical integrity tests will be witnessed by the
            Director.

b.   Shut-in Wells. All Shut-in Wells will pass a mechanical integrity test.

     (1)    A mechanical integrity test will be performed on each Shut-in Well within 2
            years of the initial shut-in date.

     (2)    Subsequently, a mechanical integrity test will be performed on each Shut-
            in Well on 5-year intervals from the date the initial mechanical integrity test
            was performed, as long as the Well remains shut-in.

     (3)    The mechanical integrity test for a Shut-in Well will be performed after
            isolating the wellbore with a bridge plug or similar approved isolating
            device set 100 feet or less above the highest open perforation. The
            pressure test will be with liquid or gas at an initial, stabilized surface
            pressure of not less than 300 psi surface pressure or any equivalent test
            or combination of tests approved by the Director.

     (4)    Not less than 48 hours prior to returning an inactive, Shut-In Well to
            production or injection, an Operator will submit a Form 42 – Notice of
            Return to Service, to the Director of the scheduled date for returning the
            Well to production or injection to allow the Commission to inspect.

c.   Temporarily Abandoned Wells. All Temporarily Abandoned Wells will pass a
     mechanical integrity test.

     (1)    A mechanical integrity test will be performed on each Temporarily
            Abandoned Well within 30 days of temporarily abandoning the well.

     (2)    Subsequently, a mechanical integrity test will be performed on each
            Temporarily Abandoned Well on 5 year intervals from the date of the initial
            mechanical integrity test was performed, as long as the Well remained
            temporarily abandoned.




                                                                                       220
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)    The mechanical integrity test for a Temporarily Abandoned Well will be
            performed after isolating the wellbore with a bridge plug or similar
            approved isolating device set 100 feet or less above the highest open
            perforation. The pressure test will be liquid or gas at an initial, stabilized
            surface pressure of not less than 300 psi surface pressure or any
            equivalent test or combination of tests approved by the Director.

     (4)    Not less than 48 hours prior to returning an inactive, Temporarily
            Abandoned Well to production or injection, an Operator will submit a Form
            42 – Notice of Return to Service, to the Director of the scheduled date for
            returning the Well to production or injection to allow the Commission to
            inspect the installation of equipment or conduct of the mechanical
            intervention.

d.   Suspended Operations and Waiting on Completion Wells. A mechanical
     integrity test will be performed on Suspended Operations Wells and Waiting On
     Completion Wells as described in this Rule 417.d.

     (1)    A mechanical integrity test will be performed on each Suspended
            Operations Well within 2 years of setting any casing string and suspending
            operations prior to reaching permitted total depth.

     (2)    A mechanical integrity test will be performed on each Waiting On
            Completion Well within 2 years of setting production casing.

     (3)    Subsequently, a mechanical integrity test will be performed on each
            Suspended Operations Well and Waiting On Completion Well on 5 year
            intervals from the date that the initial mechanical integrity test was
            performed, as long as the Well remains in a suspended operations or
            waiting on completion status.

     (4)    The mechanical integrity test for a Suspended Operations Well and
            Waiting On Completion Well will be performed to verify integrity of the
            casing string being tested. The pressure test will be liquid or gas at an
            initial, stabilized surface pressure of not less than 300 psi surface
            pressure or any equivalent test or combination of tests approved by the
            Director.

e.   Not less than 10 days prior to the performance of any mechanical integrity test
     required by this Rule 417, any person required to perform the test will notify the
     Director with a Form 42 – Mechanical Integrity Test, of the scheduled date and
     time when the test will be performed.

f.   All Wells will maintain mechanical integrity. All Wells which lack mechanical
     integrity, as determined through a mechanical integrity test, or other means, will
     be repaired or Plugged and Abandoned within 6 months. If an Operator has
     performed a mechanical integrity test within the 2 years required for Shut-in
     Wells or the 30 days required for Temporarily Abandoned Wells by this Rule, the



                                                                                         221
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Operator will have 6 months from the date of the unsuccessful test to make
       repairs or Plug and Abandon the Well. If the Operator has not performed a
       mechanical integrity test within the required time frames in Rules 417.b.(1) &
       c.(1), the Operator will not be given an additional 6 months in the event of an
       unsuccessful test.

g.     Mechanical integrity test pressure loss or gain will not exceed 10% of the initial
       stabilized surface pressure over a test period of 15 minutes. The test may be
       repeated if the pressure loss or gain is determined to be the result of
       compression related to gas dissolution from the Fluid column or temperature
       effects related to the Fluid used to load the column. Wells that do not satisfy this
       test requirement are considered to lack mechanical integrity and are subject to
       the requirements of Rule 417.f.

418.   FORM 21, MECHANICAL INTEGRITY TEST

a.     Results of all mechanical integrity tests, including tests that show a lack of
       integrity, will be submitted on Form 21, Mechanical Integrity Test, within 30 days
       after the test.

b.     A mechanical integrity test that shows the Well lacks integrity is considered a
       failed test.

c.     The Form 21 will be completely filled out except for Part II, which is required only
       for injection Wells. An original copy of the pressure chart will be submitted with
       every Form 21.

419.   BRADENHEAD MONITORING, TESTING, AND REPORTING

a.     Equipment Requirements.

       (1)    The Operator will equip Bradenhead access on all Wells to the Annulus
              between the production and surface casing as well as any intermediate
              casing with appropriate fittings to allow safe and convenient determination
              of pressure and Fluid flow.

       (2)    To allow for Commission visual inspection at all times, all valves used for
              annular pressure monitoring will remain exposed and will not be buried.
              An Operator may use a rigid housing to protect the valves so long as the
              housing can be easily opened or removed by the Operator upon request.

       (3)    These equipment requirements apply to all Wells, regardless of function.

b.     Bradenhead Monitoring. The Operator will monitor all Wells at a Director-
       indicated frequency for aspects of Well integrity necessary to protect and
       minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
       wildlife resources, including Groundwater, Potential Flow Zones, and formations
       and pursuant to this Rule 419.



                                                                                         222
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   After Rig Release, Prior to Stimulation. An Operator will monitor all
           annular casing pressures on a monthly basis. If at any point the
           Bradenhead monitoring pressure is greater than 30% of the TVD in feet of
           the surface casing shoe expressed in psig, the Operator will contact the
           Director before proceeding with Stimulation to determine whether
           mitigation or other measures are necessary to ensure isolation consistent
           with the Commission’s Rules.

     (2)   During Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment.

           A.    An Operator will confine the placement of all Stimulation fluids to
                 the objective formations during Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment to
                 the extent practicable.

           B.    During Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment operations, an Operator will
                 continuously monitor and record Bradenhead Annulus pressure on
                 all Wells being Stimulated.

           C.    If intermediate casing has been set on the Well Stimulated by
                 Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, an Operator will monitor and
                 record the pressure in the Annulus between the intermediate casing
                 and the production casing during Stimulation operations.

           D.    During Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment operations, an Operator will
                 monitor the Bradenhead Annulus and casing pressures for all Wells
                 within 300 feet of the wellbore being Stimulated.

           E.    If at any time during Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment operations, the
                 Bradenhead Annulus pressure in psig in the Well being Stimulated
                 or any Well being monitored has a Bradenhead pressure exceeding
                 30% of the TVD in feet of the surface casing shoe expressed in
                 psig, or the Operator has reason to suspect any potential failure of
                 the production casing or Stimulation string, the Operator will:

                 i.     Safely and quickly discontinue the Stimulation and dissipate
                        the annular pressure.

                 ii.    Notify the Director as soon as practicable but no later than
                        24 hours following the occurrence with a Form 42 – Notice of
                        High Bradenhead Pressure During Stimulation.

                 iii.   Perform diagnostic testing on the Well and related
                        equipment as is necessary to determine: (i) whether such a
                        failure has actually occurred; (ii) if the pressure observations
                        can be accounted for due to thermal expansion or pressure
                        “ballooning” of the casing; or (iii) the presence or absence of
                        a downhole failure or whether a migration pathway has
                        actually occurred. The Operator will perform diagnostic



                                                                                    223
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        testing as soon as is reasonably practical after Operator has
                        reasonable cause to know of or suspect any such failure.

                        aa.   If the Operator does not identify a downhole failure or
                              a migration pathway, the Operator will notify the
                              Director of the results. The Director will timely grant
                              approval to proceed with stimulation and may do so
                              orally.

                        bb.   If the Operator identifies a downhole failure or
                              migration pathway, the Operator will consult with the
                              Director and, upon request, provide and implement a
                              corrective plan prior to continuing any further
                              Stimulation operations on the Well and any additional
                              Well on the Oil and Gas Location.

                 iv.    Submit a Form 4, providing all details, including whether a
                        downhole failure or migration pathway occurred, cause of
                        the high pressure or suspected failure, and corrective
                        measures taken within 15 days after the occurrence.

     (3)   Thirty Days After Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment. For the first 30 days
           after Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment or completion, an Operator will
           monitor and record production casing pressure and all annular casing
           pressures for a Well on a daily basis, at a minimum.

     (4)   Through the Remaining Life of the Well. For all Wells in the state, an
           Operator will monitor and record production casing pressure and all
           annular casing pressures on a monthly basis or at a Director-approved
           frequency. If a Well’s Bradenhead pressure is greater than 30% of the
           TVD in feet of the surface casing shoe expressed in psig, or a lower
           threshold set by a Commission order, or if a Well flows liquids or
           continuous gas from the Bradenhead Annulus, an Operator will:

           A.    Report the Bradenhead pressure to the Director on a Form 17,
                 Bradenhead Test Report;

           B.    Take immediate action to remedy such an annular pressure; and

           C.    Perform diagnostic testing to determine if the annular casing
                 pressure is sustained. An Operator will report diagnostic testing
                 results to the Director on a Form 4 within 60 days of submitting a
                 Form 17 pursuant to Rule 419.b.(4).A. If the diagnostic testing
                 confirms sustained casing pressure, an Operator will develop and
                 implement a pressure management plan and provide the plan with
                 the Form 4.




                                                                                  224
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (5)   Records. An Operator will keep Bradenhead monitoring records required
             by Rule 419.b available for inspection by the Director for a minimum of 5
             years after the monitoring was performed.

c.     Annual Bradenhead Testing and Reporting. For all Wells other than coalbed
       methane Wells, an Operator will perform an annual Bradenhead test and submit
       the data to the Director on a Form 17 or other Director-approved method. For
       coalbed methane Wells, an Operator will perform Bradenhead testing pursuant to
       Rule 614.e.

d.     Bradenhead Test Observations.

       (1)   If an Operator observes a deficiency, the Operator will immediately take
             action to address the deficiency. Actions taken may include the Operator
             performing diagnostic testing on the Well to determine whether a
             deficiency does exist and the best method of repair or if a pressure
             management plan is needed.

       (2)   The Director may impose a remediation plan if a deficiency exists, and if
             imposed, the Operator will implement an approved remediation plan or
             pressure management plan and report results within 30 days or as
             required by the approved plan.

       (3)   If the Operator is not able to effectively address the deficiency or
             implement a pressure management plan, the Operator will Plug and
             Abandon the Well within 6 months of discovering the deficiency.

420.   FORM 17, BRADENHEAD TEST REPORT

The Operator will submit results of Bradenhead tests to the Director within 10 days of
completing the test either by filing a Form 17, Bradenhead Test Report or by another
method approved by the Director or Commission. The Operator will include a wellbore
diagram if not previously submitted or if the wellbore configuration has changed. The
Director may request that the Operator collect samples for analysis of the Bradenhead
gas and liquid along with production gas. The Operator will submit the results of any gas
and liquid analysis collected using a Form 43.

421.   STATEWIDE FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS

a.     When operating within a defined Floodplain, the following requirements apply to
       new Oil and Gas Locations and Wells:

       (1)   Effective August 1, 2015, Operators will notify the Director when a new
             proposed Oil and Gas Location is within a defined Floodplain, via the
             Form 2A.

       (2)   Effective June 1, 2015, new Wells will be equipped with remote shut-in
             capabilities prior to commencing production. Remote shut-in capabilities



                                                                                       225
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             include, at a minimum, the ability to shut-in the Well from outside the
             relevant Floodplain.

       (3)   Effective June 1, 2015, new Oil and Gas Locations will have secondary
             containment areas around Tanks constructed with a synthetic or
             geosynthetic liner that is mechanically connected to the steel ring or
             another engineered technology that provides equivalent protection from
             floodwaters and debris.

b.     When operating within a defined Floodplain, the following requirements apply to
       all Wells, Tanks, separation equipment, containment berms, Production Pits,
       Special Purpose Pits, and Flowback Pits:

       (1)   Operators will maintain a current inventory of all existing Wells, Tanks,
             and separation equipment in a defined Floodplain. Operators will ensure
             that a list of all such Wells, Tanks, and separation equipment is filed with
             the Director. As part of this inventory, Operators will maintain a current
             and documented plan describing how Wells within a defined Floodplain
             will be timely shut-in. This plan will include what triggers will activate the
             plan and will be made available for inspection by the Director upon
             request.

       (2)   All Tanks, including partially buried Tanks, and separation equipment will
             be anchored to the ground. Anchors will be engineered to support the
             Tank and separation equipment and to resist flotation, collapse, lateral
             movement, or subsidence.

       (3)   Containment berms around Tanks will be constructed of steel rings or
             another engineered technology that provides equivalent protection from
             floodwaters and debris.

       (4)   Production Pits, Special Purpose Pits (other than Emergency Pits), and
             Flowback Pits containing E&P Waste are prohibited within a defined
             Floodplain.

422.   LOCAL GOVERNMENT WELFARE PROTECTION STANDARDS

Operators will comply with all Relevant Local Government requirements, including
regulations that may be more protective or stricter than the Commission’s Rules.

423.   NOISE

a.     Operators will submit a noise mitigation plan that demonstrates one or more
       proposed methods of meeting the maximum permissible noise levels described
       by this Rule 423 as an attachment to their Form 2As, as required by Rule
       304.c.(2). An Operator may submit substantially equivalent information or plans
       developed through a Local Government land use process or federal process in
       lieu of the information required by this Rule 423.a unless the Director or



                                                                                         226
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Commission determines that the information or plan developed through the Local
     Government land use process or federal process is not equivalent. The noise
     mitigation plan will include at least the following information:

     (1)   An explanation of how the Operator will comply with the maximum
           permissible noise levels specified in Rule 423.b.(1). This is to include a
           description of methods to design acoustical mitigation measures or
           choose/site equipment appropriately such that the Operator has a
           reasonable expectation of compliance.

     (2)   Estimated duration of each stage of operation, including drilling,
           completion, Flowback, production, and an estimate of the noise levels of
           each stage of operation;

     (3)   Reference to topographical considerations of noise and noise propagation
           at the proposed Oil and Gas Location;

     (4)   Description of Best Management Practices and best engineering practices
           for measuring and mitigating noise levels and an implementation schedule
           for such technology.

     (5)   For proposed Oil and Gas Locations with a Working Pad Surface within
           2,000 feet of one or more Residential Building Units, at least one, and no
           more than six noise points of compliance where monitors will be located.
           Operators will identify noise points of compliance using the following
           criteria:

           A.     Provide one noise point of compliance in each direction in which a
                  Residential Building Unit is located within 2,000 feet of the
                  proposed Working Pad Surface.

           B.     Noise points of compliance will be located at least 350 feet from the
                  Working Pad Surface, and no less than 25 feet from the exterior
                  wall of the Residential Building Unit that is closest to the Working
                  Pad Surface. If a Surface Owner or tenant refuses to provide the
                  Operator with access to install a noise monitor, then the noise point
                  of compliance will be located at either the next-closest Residential
                  Building Unit or an alternative location approximately the same
                  distance and direction from the Working Pad Surface.

b.   A preliminary plan for how the Operator will conduct background ambient noise
     surveys to establish baseline conditions for noise levels on the site, for both A-
     scale and C-scale noise. The Director may require as a condition of approval on
     the Form 2A that the Operator conduct the background ambient noise survey
     between 30 and 90 days prior to start of construction and update the plan
     accordingly based on the results. Operators will conduct baseline noise surveys
     at the noise points of compliance identified pursuant to Rule 423.a.(5). When an
     Operator conducts a background ambient survey the Operator will follow the



                                                                                        227
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      same approach as outlined in Rule 423.c.(7) and over a 72-hour period, including
      at least 24 hours between 10:00 p.m. on a Friday and 4:00 a.m. on a Monday.
      Operators will record any significant weather events and take those events into
      account when establishing the baseline. A single cumulative daytime ambient
      noise level and a single cumulative nighttime ambient noise level will be
      established by taking the logarithmic average of all daytime or nighttime 1-hour
      Leq values measured and in accordance with the sound level data collection
      requirements pursuant to the maximum permissible noise levels.

      (1)       All Oil and Gas Operations will comply with the following maximum
                permissible noise levels in Table 423-1 unless otherwise required by Rule
                423. The Director may require Operators to comply with a lower maximum
                permissible noise level based on the consultation process with Relevant
                and Proximate Local Governments, CDPHE, or CPW pursuant to Rules
                302.g, 309.e, & 309.f.

Table 423-1 – Maximum Permissible Noise Levels

   LAND USE DESIGNATION              7:00 am to next 7:00     7:00 pm to next 7:00 am
                                     pm
   Residential/ Rural/State          55 db(A)                 50 db(A)
   Parks & State Wildlife Areas
   Commercial/Agricultural           60 db(A)                 55 db(A)
   Light Industrial                  70 db(A)                 65 db(A)
   Industrial                        80 db(A)                 75 db(A)
   All Zones                         60 db(C)                 60 db(C)

      (2)       Unless otherwise required by Rule 423, drilling or completion operations,
                including Flowback:

                A.    In Residential/Rural or Commercial/Agricultural, maximum
                      permissible noise levels will be 60 db(A) in the hours between 7:00
                      p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and 65 db(A) in the hours between 7:00 a.m. to
                      7:00 p.m.; and

                B.    In all zones maximum permissible noise levels will be 65 db(C) in
                      the hours between 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and 65 db(C) in the hours
                      between 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.

      (3)       The basis for determining land use designation pursuant to Table 423-1
                will be the Relevant Local Government’s land use or zoning designation.
                The Director may consult with a Relevant or Proximate Local Government
                to identify the type of land use of the Oil and Gas Location and its
                surrounding area, taking into consideration any applicable zoning or other
                local land use designation.




                                                                                       228
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.    To protect public health, safety, and welfare, the Director may
                 require Operators to comply with a lower maximum permissible
                 noise level in areas zoned industrial, light industrial, or commercial,
                 if the Oil and Gas Facility will be within 2,000 feet of a Residential
                 Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit.

           B.    In a noise mitigation plan submitted pursuant to Rule 423.a, an
                 Operator may request a higher maximum permissible noise level
                 than would otherwise be allowed by Table 423-1, if the Operator
                 demonstrates that both the Relevant and any Proximate Local
                 Governments agree to the higher maximum permissible noise level.
                 The Director may apply that higher maximum permissible noise
                 level as long as the requested level is protective of public health,
                 safety, and welfare, and wildlife.

     (4)   When operating in High Priority Habitat, Operators will consult CPW and,
           on federal lands, the Bureau of Land Management, or United States Fish
           and Wildlife Service, to determine the acceptable noise limits and
           monitoring protocols.

     (5)   Operators may exceed the noise levels in Table 423-1 as measured at the
           nearest noise point of compliance if all affected Surface Owners and
           tenants agree in writing to the higher noise limit requested by the
           Operator.

     (6)   Unless otherwise required by Rule 423.b.(7), during the hours between
           7:00 a.m. and the next 7:00 p.m. the maximum permissible noise levels
           listed in Table 423-1 may be increased 10 dB(A) for a period not to
           exceed 15 minutes in any 1-hour period. The increase is permissible only
           for a 1 hour period during any 12 hours.

     (7)   Operators will reduce periodic, impulsive, or shrill noise by 5 dB(A) below
           the levels in Table 423-1. For periodic, shrill, and impulsive noise within
           1000 feet of a Residential Building Unit, Operators will minimize noise that
           can be readily eliminated through maintenance, equipment modification,
           or other readily available procedures.

     (8)   Pursuant to Commission inspection or upon receiving a complaint from a
           Local Government, or a Surface Owner or tenant of a property within
           2,000 feet of an Oil and Gas Facility regarding noise related to Oil and
           Gas Operations, the Commission will conduct an onsite investigation and
           take sound measurements using the methods prescribed for Operators in
           Rule 423.c.

c.   To demonstrate compliance with Tables 423-1 and 423-2 Operators will measure
     sound levels according to the following standards:




                                                                                    229
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   During pre-production activities and ongoing operations lasting longer than
           24 consecutive hours such as drilling, completion, recompletion,
           Stimulation, and Well maintenance, in areas zoned residential or within
           2,000 feet of a Building Unit, Operators will take continuous sound
           measurements from each noise point of compliance designated pursuant
           to Rule 423.a.(5).

     (2)   Monitoring Procedures.

           A.    In response to a complaint or at the Director’s request, Operators
                 will measure sound levels at 25 feet from the complainant’s
                 occupied structure towards the noise source for low frequency
                 (dbC) indicated issues. For high frequency (dbA) measurement will
                 be at the nearest point of compliance. For equipment installed at Oil
                 and Gas Locations subject to a Form 2A approved prior to January
                 15, 2021, after the Commencement of Production Operations, no
                 single piece of equipment will exceed the maximum permissible
                 noise levels listed in Table 423-1 as measured at a point 350 feet
                 from the equipment generating the noise in the direction from which
                 the complaint was received.

           B.    In situations where measurement of noise is unrepresentative due
                 to topography or any other issue, Operators or the Commission
                 may take the measurement at the nearest noise point of
                 compliance, or at a different distance and extrapolate it to 25 feet
                 from the complainant’s residence (dbC) or the complainant’s
                 property line (dbA) using the following formula:

                 db(A) distance 2 = db(A) distance 1 – 20 x log 10 (distance
                 2/distance 1)

                 db(C) distance 2 = db(C) distance 1 – 20 x log 10 (distance
                 2/distance 1)

     (3)   Operators will equip sound level meters with wind screens that are in good
           working order, and will take readings when the wind velocity at the time
           and place of measurement is not more than 5 miles per hour. In
           determining an Oil and Gas Operation’s contribution to sound levels, the
           Director will consider wind readings that exceed 5 mph.

     (4)   Operators will take sound level measurements 5 feet above ground level.

     (5)   Operators will determine sound levels by averaging logarithmic minute-by-
           minute measurements made over a minimum 1-hour sample duration.

     (6)   All sound meters will be type II meters at a minimum. All measurements
           will be reported using LeqA (fast) and LeqC (slow). Meters will be field
           calibrated pre-survey and post survey. Continuous surveys will be field



                                                                                  230
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           calibrated pre-survey and post survey and pursuant to the manufacturer’s
           recommended interval. All survey equipment will be inspected at time of
           calibration for compliance with the Commission’s Rules.

     (7)   Operators will take samples under conditions that are representative of the
           noise experienced by the complainant (e.g., at night, morning, evening, or
           during special weather conditions).

     (8)   If a Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, High Priority Habitat, or
           Designated Outside Activity Area is built or designated after an Oil and
           Gas Development Plan or Form 2A is approved, the Operator of the Oil
           and Gas Location need not comply with Rule 423.c with respect to the
           newly built or designated Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
           High Priority Habitat, or Designated Outside Activity Area.

     (9)   Operators will maintain records to demonstrate compliance with this Rule
           423.c, and will submit the records to the Director upon request.

d.   Cumulative Noise. All noise measurements will be cumulative.

     (1)   Noise measurements taken at noise points of compliance designated
           pursuant to Rule 423.a.(5) will take into account ambient noise, rather
           than solely the incremental increase of noise from the facility targeted for
           measurement.

     (2)   At new or substantially modified Oil and Gas Locations where ambient
           noise levels at noise points of compliance designated pursuant to Rule
           423.a.(5) already exceed the noise thresholds identified in Table 423-1,
           then Operators will be considered in compliance with Rule 423, unless at
           any time their individual noise contribution, measured pursuant to Rule
           423.c, increases noise above ambient levels by greater than 5 dBC and 5
           dBA between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or 7 dBC and 7 dBA between 7:00
           a.m. and 7:00 p.m. This Rule 423.d.(2) does not allow Operators to
           increase noise above the maximum cumulative noise thresholds specified
           in Table 423-2 after the Commencement of Production Operations.

     (3)   After the Commencement of Production Operations, if ambient noise
           levels already exceed the maximum permissible noise thresholds
           identified in Table 423-1, under no circumstances will new Oil and Gas
           Operations or a significant modification to an existing Oil and Gas
           Operations raise cumulative ambient noise above:




                                                                                     231
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

Table 423-2 – Maximum Cumulative Noise Levels

     LAND USE                           7:00 am to next 7:00       7:00 pm to next 7:00 am
                                        pm
     Residential /Rural/State           65 db(A)                   60 db(A)
     Parks/State Wildlife Areas
     Commercial/Agricultural            70 db(A)                   65 db(A)
     Light Industrial                   80 db(A)                   75 db(A)
     Industrial                         90 db(A)                   85 db(A)
     All Zones                          75 db(C)                   70 db(C)

e.      If Oil and Gas Operations result in persistent noise that adversely impacts public
        welfare, the Director may require the Operator to take action pursuant to Rule
        901.a.

424.    LIGHTING

a.      Operators will submit a light mitigation plan as an attachment to their Form 2As,
        pursuant to Rule 304.c.(3). An Operator may submit substantially equivalent
        information or plans developed through a Local Government land use process or
        federal process in lieu of the information required by this Rule 424.a unless the
        Director or Commission determines that the information or plan developed
        through the Local Government land use process or federal process is not
        equivalent.

        (1)       All light mitigation plans will be signed by a person with relevant expertise
                  in light mitigation techniques and design.

        (2)       All light mitigation plans will address:

                  A.     A pre-production facility lighting plan demonstrating one or more
                         proposed methods of ensuring compliance with Rule 424.c, and:

                         i.     That provides adequate lighting to ensure safety during
                                active operations involving personnel; and

                         ii.    The proposed anticipated location, mounting, height, and
                                orientation of all outdoor lighting fixtures on the site during
                                pre-production activities.

                         iii.   Nothing in this Rule 424.a.(2).A prevents an Operator from
                                using ad hoc temporary portable lighting when necessary for
                                safety reasons during pre-production activities, provided that
                                the Operator otherwise complies with the standards in Rules
                                424.b–f.




                                                                                              232
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     A Production Facility lighting plan demonstrating one or more
                  proposed methods of ensuring compliance with Rules 424.d & e,
                  and:

                  i.     The location, mounting, height, and orientation of all outdoor
                         lighting fixtures on the site;

                  ii.    A table that calculates the total lumen output of all fixtures
                         combined; and

                  iii.   Cut sheets of light fixtures that demonstrate Backlight,
                         Uplight, and Glare (“BUG”) rating, lumen output, and fully
                         shielded design; and

                  iv.    For any location with a Building Unit within 2,000 feet, a
                         photometric plan estimating or calculating the illuminance,
                         measured in lux, 100 feet outside the facility boundary;

           C.     The Operator’s capability of meeting all requirements of this Rule
                  424 through one or more proposed methods;

           D.     The location of the resources and receptors listed in Rules 424.c &
                  d; and

           E.     Square footage of the Working Pad Surface for purposes of
                  demonstrating compliance with Rule 424.d.(2).

b.   Lighting Standards.

     (1)   Operators will direct site lighting downward and inward, such that no light
           shines above a horizontal plane passing through the center point light
           source.

     (2)   Operators will use appropriate technology within fixtures that obscures,
           blocks, or diffuses the light to reduce light intensity outside the boundaries
           of the Oil and Gas Facility.

     (3)   Operators will use Best Management Practices to minimize light pollution
           and obtrusive lighting, which may include, but are not limited to:

           A.     Minimizing lighting when not needed using timers or motion
                  sensors;

           B.     Using full cut-off lighting;

           C.     Using lighting colors that reduce light intensity; and

           D.     Using low-glare or no-glare lighting.




                                                                                      233
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Pre-Production Facility Lighting.

     (1)   At all Oil and Gas Facilities with active operations involving personnel,
           Operators will provide sufficient on-site lighting to ensure the safety of all
           persons on or near the site.

     (2)   If the facility has a noise barrier, Operators will locate the facility lighting
           beneath the noise barrier, except for drilling rig lights, which will be
           shielded and pursuant to Federal Aviation Administration permit
           requirements if applicable. Operators will take precautions to ensure that
           lights do not shine out of openings in the noise barrier.

     (3)   Prior to the Commencement of Production Operations, Operators will take
           all necessary and reasonable precautions to ensure that lighting from Oil
           and Gas Facilities does not unnecessarily impact the health, safety, and
           welfare of any of the following:

           A.     Persons occupying Building Units within 2,000 feet of the Oil and
                  Gas Facility;

           B.     Motorists on roads within 2,000 feet of the Oil and Gas Facility; and

           C.     Wildlife occupying any High Priority Habitat within 2,000 feet of the
                  Oil and Gas Facility.

d.   Production Phase Facility Lighting When Personnel Are On-Site.

     (1)   After the Commencement of Production Operations, at all Oil and Gas
           Facilities with active operations involving personnel, Operators will provide
           sufficient on-site lighting to ensure the safety of all persons on or near the
           site.

     (2)   After the Commencement of Production Operations, when active
           operations involving personnel are occurring, Oil and Gas Facilities will not
           exceed the following maximum permissible light levels.




                                                                                         234
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


     LAND USE                                                    Lumens per square foot
                                                                 of Working Pad Surface
     Residential /Rural/State Parks/State Wildlife               1.25
     Areas/High Priority Habitat/Wilderness Areas/National
     Park/National Monument
     Commercial/Agricultural                                     2.5
     Light Industrial                                            5.0
     Industrial                                                  7.5

          (3)     The basis for determining land use designation pursuant to be Rule
                  424.d.(2) will be the Relevant Local Government’s land use or zoning
                  designation. The Director may consult with a Relevant or Proximate Local
                  Government to identify the type of land use of the Oil and Gas Location
                  and its surrounding area, taking into consideration any applicable zoning
                  or other local land use designation.

                  A.    To protect public safety and welfare, the Director may require
                        Operators to comply with a lower maximum permissible light level
                        in areas zoned industrial, light industrial, or commercial, if the Oil
                        and Gas Facility will be within 2,000 feet of a Residential Building
                        Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit.

                  B.    The Director may require Operators to comply with a lower
                        maximum permissible light level based on the consultation process
                        with Relevant and Proximate Local Governments, CDPHE, or CPW
                        required by Rules 302.g, 309.e, & 309.f.

                  C.    In a light mitigation plan submitted pursuant to Rule 424.a, an
                        Operator may request a higher maximum permissible light level
                        than would otherwise be allowed by Rule 424.d.(2), if the Operator
                        demonstrates that both the Relevant and any Proximate Local
                        Governments agree to the higher maximum permissible light level.
                        The Director may apply that higher maximum permissible light level
                        as long as the requested level is protective of public safety, public
                        welfare, and wildlife.

e.        Production Phase Facility Lighting When Personnel Are Not On-Site. After
          the Commencement of Production Operations, Operators will minimize
          continuous on-site lighting when personnel are not present.

f.        Cumulative Light Impacts. Operators will develop site lighting to reduce
          cumulative nighttime light intensity from all Oil and Gas Facilities to 4 lux at any
          Residential Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit within 1 mile of any Oil
          and Gas Facility, measured at 5.5 feet above grade in a direct line of sight to the
          brightest light fixture onsite.



                                                                                            235
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

425.   VISUAL IMPACT MITIGATION

a.     Commission Visual Impact Mitigation Standards.

       (1)    Unless the Commission approves an alternate method of visual impact
              mitigation, all permanent equipment at new and existing Oil and Gas
              Facilities, regardless of construction date, which are observable from any
              public highway, road, or publicly-maintained trail, will be painted with
              uniform, non-contrasting, non-reflective color tones (similar to the Munsell
              Soil Color Coding System), and with colors matched to but slightly darker
              than the surrounding landscape.

       (2)    If requested to do so during consultation with the Relevant Local
              Government, the Surface Owner, or a Building Unit owner pursuant to
              Rules 302.g, 309.b, or 309.c, an Operator will orient new Oil and Gas
              Facilities in a direction to reduce the contrast between the Oil and Gas
              Facilities and the surrounding landscape. If multiple receptors to visual
              impacts may be present, the Operator will describe its efforts to use
              orientation to minimize impacts on all potential receptors.

b.     Oil and Gas Facilities located on the surface of federal lands will be painted and
       oriented as directed by the appropriate federal agency.

c.     Operators will use Best Management Practices to avoid, minimize, and mitigate
       visual impacts consistent with any Relevant Local Government’s regulations.

426.   ODORS

a.     For proposed Working Pad Surfaces within 2,000 feet of a Building Unit or
       Designated Outside Activity Area, Operators will submit an odor mitigation plan
       as an attachment to their Form 2As, as required by Rule 304.c.(4). An Operator
       may submit substantially equivalent information or plans developed through a
       Local Government land use process or federal process in lieu of the information
       required by this Rule 426.a unless the Director or Commission determines that
       the information or plan developed through the Local Government land use
       process or federal process is not equivalent. All odor mitigation plans will
       address:

       (1)    How the Operator will comply with all requirements of this Rule 426
              through one or more proposed methods; and

       (2)    All Best Management Practices the Operator will use to reduce odors.

b.     Operators will conduct all Oil and Gas Operations at all Oil and Gas Facilities in a
       manner that minimizes odors outside the boundaries of the Oil and Gas Location.




                                                                                          236
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.     In areas within 2,000 feet of a Building Unit or Designated Outside Activity Area,
       Operators will use current and appropriate Best Management Practices to
       minimize odors.

d.     Complaint System.

       (1)    Upon Director request, the Operator(s) of the Oil and Gas Facility or
              Facilities subject to the complaint will provide within 24 hours the Director,
              the Relevant or Proximate Local Government, and the complainant
              (should the complainant request notification) with a complete description
              of all activities occurring at the facility during the timeframe specified in the
              complaint.

       (2)    The Director may require the Operator(s) of the Oil and Gas Facility or
              Facilities subject to the complaint to take necessary and reasonable
              actions to reduce odors, including, but not limited to, conducting air
              sampling to measure volatile organic compounds.

e.     Cumulative Odors. The Commission or Director may require Operators to adopt
       additional Best Management Practices as conditions of approval or through
       guidance to minimize odors in areas with high concentrations of oil and gas
       activities that may expose one or more Building Units or Designated Outside
       Activity Areas to odors from oil and gas sources.

427.   DUST

a.     Operators will submit a dust mitigation plan for all Oil and Gas Operations on Oil
       and Gas Locations and lease access roads, that demonstrates one or more
       methods of meeting the requirements of this Rule 427 as an attachment to their
       Form 2As, as required by Rule 304.c.(5). An Operator may submit substantially
       equivalent information or plans developed through a Local Government land use
       process or federal process in lieu of the information required by this Rule 427.a
       unless the Director or Commission determines that the information or plan
       developed through the Local Government land use process or federal process is
       not equivalent. Such plans will include at least the following information:

       (1)    Soil type;

       (2)    Proposed vehicle speed limit to minimize dust;

       (3)    Total area of soil disturbance (in acres);

       (4)    Whether access roads are paved;

       (5)    Number of anticipated truck trips during each stage of wellpad
              construction, drilling, completion, and production;

       (6)    A plan for suppressing fugitive dust caused solely by wind; and



                                                                                           237
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (7)   A list of Best Management Practices that will be used. Such practices may
           include, but are not limited to:

           A.     The use of speed restrictions;

           B.     Regular road maintenance; and

           C.     Restricting construction activity during high wind days.

b.   Operators will minimize fugitive dust caused by their operations, or dust
     originating from areas disturbed by their Oil and Gas Operations that becomes
     windborne.

     (1)   If at any time, an Operator is not in compliance with this Rule 427.b, the
           Operator will cease ongoing truck traffic or other operations causing
           fugitive dust, until the Operator has performed dust suppression activities
           that the Director determines substantially and adequately control dust. If
           an Operator disagrees with the Director’s determination, it may appeal to
           the Commission pursuant to Rule 901.a.(3).

     (2)   Compliance with a dust minimization plan submitted pursuant to Rule
           427.a does not relieve an Operator of complying with this Rule 427.b.

c.   Applying Dust Suppressant.

     (1)   Operators will not use any of the following fluids for dust suppression:

           A.     Produced water;

           B.     E&P Waste or hazardous waste;

           C.     Crude oil or any oil not specifically designed for road maintenance;

           D.     Solvents; and

           E.     Any process Fluids.

     (2)   Operators will use only fresh water (potable or non-potable) to conduct
           dust suppression activities within 300 feet of the ordinary high-water mark
           of any water body.

     (3)   Operators will maintain safety data sheets (“SDS”) for any chemical-based
           dust suppressant, and make the SDS available immediately upon request
           to the Director and to the Local Government. Operators will maintain SDS
           for any chemical-based dust suppressant until the site passes final site
           Reclamation, and transfer the records upon transfer of property
           ownership.




                                                                                      238
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.     Within 2,000 feet of Building Units, or High Priority Habitat, the Commission may
       require additional dust control measures as a condition of approval, including, but
       not limited to:

       (1)    Constructing wind breaks and barriers;

       (2)    Automation of Wells to reduce truck traffic;

       (3)    Road or facility surfacing; and

       (4)    Soil stockpile stabilization measures.

e.     Cumulative Dust Impacts. Based on review of dust mitigation plans submitted
       pursuant to Rule 427.a, the Commission may require Operators to adopt
       additional dust mitigation requirements to reduce cumulative dust impacts, based
       on the following considerations:

       (1)    The number of anticipated truck trips for the Oil and Gas Facility seeking
              Commission approval combined with the number of anticipated truck trips
              at any other Oil and Gas Locations within a 1-mile radius during the same
              time period;

       (2)    Whether the truck traffic for the Oil and Gas Facility seeking Commission
              approval will use any of the same unpaved roads as truck traffic for any
              other Oil and Gas Facility; and

       (3)    Whether there are other major sources of dust in the area, which may or
              may not be Oil and Gas Facilities, which will result in the area bearing a
              cumulative dust risk that could harm public health, safety, welfare, the
              environment, or wildlife resources, including impacts to plants, such as
              burial or significant damage to photosynthetic processes.

428.   WELL CONTROL

a.     The Operator will take all reasonable precautions, in addition to fully complying
       with Rule 417 to prevent any oil, gas or water well from flowing uncontrolled
       during Well operations and will take immediate steps and exercise due diligence
       to bring under control any such Well.

b.     For controlled drilling events, a “significant” Well control event is a kick managed
       by shutting in the Well to circulate out the kick.

c.     Form 23, Well Control Report. The Operator will report all uncontrolled events
       and any significant controlled events during a Well operation to the Director as
       soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours following the incident. Within 15
       days after these occurrences, the Operator will submit a Form 23, Well Control
       Report.




                                                                                        239
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.     If required, the Operator will submit a Form 19, Spill/Release Report, for
       reportable Spills or Releases providing all details required on the form.

429.   MEASUREMENT OF OIL

a.     General Standards.

       (1)   Measurement and Recording. The volume of all oil production from a
             lease or a production unit will be measured and recorded prior to removal
             from the lease or production unit. The volume of production of oil will be
             computed in terms of Barrels of clean oil on the basis of properly
             calibrated meter measurements or Tank measurements of oil-level
             differences, made and recorded to the nearest 1/4 inch of 100% capacity
             tables, subject to the following corrections in Rules 429.b & c below.

       (2)   Incorporation by Reference. This Rule 429 will be used consistently with
             standards established by the ASTM International (“ASTM”), the American
             Petroleum Institute (“API”) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards,
             the American Gas Association (“AGA”), GPA Midstream (“GPA”), or other
             applicable standards-setting organizations, and pursuant to contractual
             rights or obligations. Only those editions of standards in effect as of
             January 15, 2021 apply to this Rule, later amendments do not apply. All
             materials incorporated by reference in this Rule 429 are available for
             public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
             Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
             801, Denver, Colorado 80203. The materials may also be examined at
             any state publications depository library if the materials are not available
             online for free. In addition, these materials are available from the
             organizations at:

             A.     ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West
                    Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; https://www.astm.org/.

             B.     API, 200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 1100, Washington, DC
                    20001-5571; https://www.api.org/.

             C.     AGA, 400 North Capitol Street, NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC
                    20001; https://www.aga.org/.

             D.     GPA, 6060 American Plaza, Suite 700, Tulsa, OK 74135,
                    https://gpamidstream.org/.

b.     Correction for Impurities. The percentage of impurities (water, sand, and other
       foreign substances not constituting a natural component part of the oil) will be
       determined to the satisfaction of the Director, and the observed gross volume of
       oil will be corrected to exclude the entire volume of such impurities.




                                                                                     240
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Temperature Correction. The observed volume of oil corrected for impurities
     will be further corrected to the standard volume of sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°
     F) pursuant to ASTM D1250-19e1, Standard Guide for Use of the Joint API and
     ASTM Adjunct for Temperature and Pressure Volume Correction Factors for
     Generalized Crude Oils, Refined Products, and Lubricating Oils (May 1, 2019),
     as incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2) (“ASTM D1250”), or any
     close approximation thereof approved by the Director.

d.   Gravity Determination. The gravity of oil at 60° F will be determined pursuant to
     Table 5 of ASTM D-1250, as incorporated by reference in Rule 429.c, or any
     close approximation thereof approved by the Director.

e.   Tank Gauging. Measurement by Tank gauging will be completed pursuant to
     industry standards as specified in:

     (1)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 3.1A:
           Standard Practice for the Manual Gauging of Petroleum and Petroleum
           Products (Third Edition, December 2018), as incorporated by reference
           pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2);

     (2)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 3.1B:
           Standard Practice for the Manual Gauging of Petroleum and Petroleum
           Products (Third Edition, April 2018), as incorporated by reference
           pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2);

     (3)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 18.1:
           Custody Transfer, Section 1: Measurement Procedures for Crude Oil
           Gathered from Small Tanks by Truck (Third Edition, May 2018), as
           incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2); or

     (4)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 18.2:
           Custody Transfer of Crude Oil from Lease Tanks Using Alternative
           Measurement Methods (First Edition, July 2016), as incorporated by
           reference pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2).

f.   Metering Station. Measurement will be completed pursuant to industry
     standards as specified in the following chapters of the API Manual of Petroleum
     Measurement Standards, as incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule
     429.a.(2):

     (1)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 4: Proving
           Systems:

           A.     Chapter 4.2: Displacement Provers (Third Edition, September
                  2003, reaffirmed March 2011); and

           B.     Chapter 4.8: Operation of Proving Systems (Second Edition,
                  September 2013);



                                                                                   241
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 5: Metering:

           A.    Chapter 5.1: General Considerations for Measurement by Meters
                 (Fourth Edition, September 2005, reaffirmed July 2016, including
                 June 2008 and June 2011 errata);

           B.    Chapter 5.2: Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons by
                 Displacement Meters (Third Edition, October 2005, reaffirmed July
                 2015);

           C.    Chapter 5.3: Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons by Turbine
                 Meters (Fifth Edition, September 2005, reaffirmed August 2014,
                 including July 2009 Addendum 1);

           D.    Chapter 5.4: Accessory Equipment for Liquid Meters (Fourth
                 Edition, September 2005, reaffirmed August 2015, including May
                 2015 errata);

           E.    Chapter 5.5: Fidelity and Security of Flow Measurement Pulsed-
                 Data Transmission Systems (Second Edition, July 2005, reaffirmed
                 August 2015); and

           F.    Chapter 5.6: Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons by Coriolis
                 Meters (First Edition, October 2002, reaffirmed November 2013);

     (3)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 7:
           Temperature Determination:

           A.    Chapter 7.1: Liquid-in-Glass Thermometers (Second edition,
                 August 2017);

           B.    Chapter 7.2: Portable Electronic Thermometers (Third edition, May
                 2018);

           C.    Chapter 7.3: Fixed Automatic Tank Temperature Systems (Second
                 edition, October 2011, reaffirmed December 2016); and

           D.    Chapter 7.4: Dynamic Temperature Measurement (Third edition,
                 January 2018);

     (4)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 8: Sampling:

           A.    Chapter 8.1: Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum
                 and Petroleum Products (Fifth Edition, September 2019); and

           B.    Chapter 8.2: Standard Practice for Automatic Sampling of
                 Petroleum and Petroleum Productions (Fourth Edition, November
                 2016); and




                                                                                  242
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (5)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 12,
             Calculation of Petroleum Quantities:

             A.     Chapter 12.1.1: Calculation of Static Petroleum Quantities, Part 1—
                    Upright Cylindrical Tanks and Marine Vessels (Fourth Edition,
                    February 2019).

g.     LACT Meters. Measurement utilizing LACT units will be pursuant to industry
       specifications or standards as specified in API, Manual of Petroleum
       Measurement Standards, Chapter 6.1, Lease Automatic Custody Transfer
       (LACT) Systems (Second Edition, May 1991, reaffirmed December 2017), as
       incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2).

h.     Sales Reconciliation. In order to facilitate the resolution of questions regarding
       the payment of proceeds or sales reconciliation from a Well, a payee may submit
       a Form 37, Payment of Proceeds – Sales Volume Reconciliation Payer Contact
       Form to the payer requesting additional information concerning the payee’s
       interest in the Well, price of the oil sold, taxes applied to the sale of oil,
       differences in Well production and Well sales, and other information as described
       in § 34-60-118.5, C.R.S. The payer will return the completed form to the payee
       within 60 days of receipt. Submittal of this form to the payer will fulfill the
       requirement for “written request” described in § 34-60-118.5(2.5), C.R.S., and is
       a prerequisite to filing a complaint with the Commission. The payer will use its
       best efforts to consult in good faith with the payee to resolve disputes regarding
       payment of proceeds or sales reconciliation.

i.     A Form 37 requesting information concerning payment of proceeds or sales
       volume reconciliation may be submitted by the payee at any time. The
       Commission may act to prohibit or terminate any abuse of the reconciliation
       process.

j.     Meter Calibration.

       (1)   Meters will be calibrated annually unless more frequent calibration is
             required by contractual obligations or by the Director. All calibration
             reports will be created, maintained, and made available as operation
             records pursuant to Rule 206. In the event two consecutive meter
             calibrations exceed a 2% error, the Operator will report the test results to
             the Director who may require the Operator to show cause why the meter
             should not be replaced.

       (2)   The Operator will conspicuously post and maintain the date of the last
             meter calibration in a legible condition at each meter at all times.

430.   MEASUREMENT OF GAS

a.     General Standards.




                                                                                       243
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Measurement and Reporting. The volume of all gas produced from a
           lease or a production unit will be measured and recorded prior to removal
           from the lease or production unit. Production of gas of all kinds will be
           measured by meter unless otherwise agreed to by the Director. For
           computing volume of gas to be reported to the Commission, the standard
           pressure base will be 14.73 psia, regardless of atmospheric pressure at
           the point of measurement, and the standard temperature base will be 60°
           F. All volumes of gas to be reported to the Commission will be adjusted by
           computation to these standards, regardless of pressures and
           temperatures at which the gas was actually measured, unless otherwise
           authorized by the Director.

     (2)   Incorporation by Reference. This Rule 430 will be used consistently with
           standards established by the ASTM, API, AGA, GPA, or other applicable
           standards-setting organizations, as incorporated by reference pursuant to
           Rule 429.a.(2), and pursuant to contractual rights and obligations.

b.   Metering Station. Installation and operation of gas measurement stations will be
     pursuant to industry standards, as incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule
     429.a.(2):

     (1)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 14.3: Orifice
           Metering of Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids—
           Concentric, Square-Edged Orifice Meters:

           A.     Part 2: Specification and Installation Requirements (Fifth Edition,
                  March 2016 including March 2017 and January 2019 errata);

           B.     Part 3: Natural Gas Applications (Fourth Edition, November 2013);
                  and

           C.     Part 4: Background, Development, Implementation Procedure, and
                  Example Calculations (Fourth Edition, October 2019);

     (2)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 21.1: Flow
           Measurement Using Electronic Metering Systems—Electronic Gas
           Measurement (Second Edition, February 2013);

     (3)   AGA, Report #7: Measurement of Natural Gas by Turbine Meters (January
           2006);

     (4)   AGA, Report #9: Measurement of Gas by Multipath Ultrasonic Meters
           (July 2017); and

     (5)   AGA, Report #11: Measurement of Natural Gas by Coriolis Meter
           (February 2013).




                                                                                    244
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Metering Equipment. The devices used to measure the differential, line
     pressure, and temperature will have accepted accuracy ratings established in
     industry standards as specified in API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement
     Standards, Chapter 22: Testing Protocols, as incorporated by reference pursuant
     to Rule 429.a.(2):

     (1)   Chapter 22.1: General Guidelines for Developing Testing Protocols for
           Devices Used in the Measurement of Hydrocarbon Fluids, (Second
           Edition, August 2015, including November 2018 Addendum 1); and

     (2)   Chapter 22.2: Testing Protocols—Differential Pressure Flow Measurement
           Devices (Second Edition, April 2017).

d.   Meter Calibration.

     (1)   Meters will be calibrated annually unless more frequent calibration is
           required by contractual obligations or by the Director. All calibration
           reports will be created, maintained, and made available as operation
           records pursuant to Rule 206. In the event two consecutive meter
           calibrations exceed a 2% error, the Operator will report the test results to
           the Director who may require the Operator to show cause why the meter
           should not be replaced.

     (2)   The Operator will conspicuously post and maintain the date of the last
           meter calibration in a legible condition at each meter at all times.

e.   Gas Quality. The heating value of produced natural gas will be representative of
     the flowing gas stream at the lease or unit boundary, as determined by
     chromatographic analysis of a sample obtained in close proximity to the volume
     measurement device and will be reported on a Form 7. Gas sampling and
     analysis will occur annually unless more frequent sampling is required by
     contractual obligations or by the Director. Gas sampling, gas chromatography,
     and the resulting analysis data will be pursuant to industry standards, as
     incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 429.a.(2):

     (1)   API, Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 14.1:
           Collecting and Handling of Natural Gas Samples for Custody Transfer
           (Seventh Edition, May 2016, including August 2017 Addendum 1 and
           Errata 1);

     (2)   GPA, Standard 2166, Obtaining Natural Gas Samples for Analysis by Gas
           Chromatography (Fifth Edition, January 2017);

     (3)   GPA, Standard 2261, Analysis for Natural Gas and Similar Gaseous
           Mixtures by Gas Chromatography (2019 Edition, January 2019);




                                                                                     245
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)    GPA, Standard 2286, Method for the Extended Analysis for Natural Gas
            and Similar Gaseous Mixtures by Temperature Program Gas
            Chromatography (September 2014);

     (5)    GPA, Standard 2145, Table of the Physical Properties for Hydrocarbons
            and Other Compounds of Interest to Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids
            Industries (January 2016); and

     (6)    GPA, Standard 2172, Calculation of Gross Heating Value, Relative
            Density, Compressibility and Theoretical Hydrocarbon Liquid Content for
            Natural Gas Mixtures for Custody Transfer (February 2020).

f.   Sales Reconciliation. In order to facilitate the resolution of questions regarding
     the payment of proceeds or sales reconciliation from a Well, a payee may submit
     a Form 37 to the payer requesting additional information concerning the payee’s
     interest in the Well, price of the gas sold, taxes applied to the sale of gas,
     differences in Well production and Well sales, and other information as described
     in § 34-60-118.5, C.R.S. The payer will return the completed form to the payee
     within 60 days of receipt. Submittal of this form to the payer will fulfill the
     requirement for “written request” described in § 34-60-118.5(2.5), C.R.S., and is
     a prerequisite to filing a complaint with the Commission. The payer will use its
     best efforts to consult in good faith with the payee to resolve disputes regarding
     payment of proceeds or sales reconciliation.

g.   A Form 37 requesting information concerning payment of proceeds or requesting
     information concerning sales volume reconciliation may be submitted by the
     payee at any time. The Commission may act to prohibit or terminate any abuse
     of the reconciliation process.

431. MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING OF PRODUCED, REUSED, RECYCLED,
AND INJECTED WATER AND ASSOCIATED VEHICLE MILEAGE

a.   The volume of produced water will be computed and reported in terms of Barrels
     on the basis of properly calibrated meter measurements or Tank measurements
     of water-level differences, made and recorded to the nearest 1/4 inch of 100%
     capacity tables, or another method approved by the Director. If measurements
     are based on oil/water ratios, the oil/water ratio will be based on a production test
     performed during the last calendar year. Other equivalent methods for
     measurement of produced water may be approved by the Director. The volume
     of produced water will be reported on the Form 7.

     (1)    Form 7 - Monthly Reporting by Well. Operators will report the following,
            expressed in Barrels, to the Commission on a monthly basis for each Oil
            and Gas Well at which the Operator conducted Oil and Gas Operations in
            the previous reporting period:

            A.     The volume of all Fresh Water used downhole;




                                                                                      246
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.     The volume of all Recycled Produced Water used downhole;

            C.     The volume of all Recycled Produced Water Alternative used
                   downhole;

            D.     The volume of all Produced Water that is produced from the Well
                   and the volume of the Produced Water removed from the Oil and
                   Gas Location for disposal, including:

                   i.       The disposal method; and

                   ii.      The disposal location, including facility identification, if
                            applicable; and

            E.     The volume of all Produced Water that is produced from the Well
                   and:

                   i.       Recycled or reused in another Well at the same Oil and Gas
                            Location; or

                   ii.      Removed from the Oil and Gas Location for recycling or
                            reuse in oil and gas operations at a different Oil and Gas
                            Location, including for use by another operator.

b.   On the Form 5 and the Form 5A, Operators will report the volume in Barrels of
     the following Fluids used in drilling operations and Well Stimulation, respectively:

     (1)    Total Fluids;

     (2)    Fresh Water;

     (3)    Recycled Produced Water; and

     (4)    Recycled Produced Water Alternative.

c.   The volume of water injected into a Class II UIC Well will be computed and
     reported in term of Barrels on the basis of properly calibrated meter
     measurements or Tank measurements of water-level differences made and
     recorded to the nearest 1/4 inch of 100% capacity tables, or another method
     approved by the Director. If water is transported to an injection facility by means
     other than direct Pipeline, measurement of water is required by a properly
     calibrated meter. The Operator will conspicuously post and maintain the date of
     the last meter calibration in a legible condition at each meter at all times. The
     volume of injected water will be reported on the Form 7.

d.   The volume of water injected and produced in Simultaneous Injection Wells will
     be computed and reported in terms of Barrels on the basis of calculated pump
     volumes, on the basis of property calibrated meter measurements, or on the




                                                                                           247
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     basis of a produced gas to water ratio based on an annual production test. The
     volumes of injected and produced water will be reported on the Form 7.

e.   Form 47 - Quarterly Water Reporting by Location and Operator.

     (1)   Operators will report to the Commission, expressed in Barrels, on a
           quarterly basis, for each Oil and Gas Location at which the Operator
           conducted Oil and Gas Operations in the previous reporting period:

           A.     The volume of Fresh Water used for drilling or Well Stimulation,
                  and whether the Fresh Water is (1) owned by the Operator and (2)
                  where the water was acquired from:

                  i.      Industrial (including power generation and geothermal),

                  ii.     Commercial,

                  iii.    Municipal,

                  iv.     Agricultural (includes livestock and irrigation),

                  v.      Recreation,

                  vi.     Environmental (includes fishery and wildlife),

                  vii.    Augmentation,

                  viii.   Domestic or household,

                  ix.     Snowmaking, or

                  x.      No historical use (for water newly appropriated for Oil and
                          Gas Operations; includes Fresh Water obtained during “Free
                          River” conditions)

           B.     The total volume of Fresh Water used at the Oil and Gas Location
                  for site construction, production operations, Plugging and
                  Abandonment, facility decommissioning, Remediation, and
                  Reclamation;

           C.     The volume and source of all Recycled Produced Water used for
                  drilling or Well Stimulation at the Oil and Gas Location;

           D.     The volume, type, and source of all Recycled Produced Water
                  Alternative used for drilling or Well Stimulation at the Oil and Gas
                  Location;

           E.     The volume of all Produced Water and Recycled Produced Water
                  Alternative disposed of from the Oil and Gas Location, including:



                                                                                     248
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 i.     The disposal method;

                 ii.    The disposal location, including facility identification, if
                        applicable

           F.    The volume of all Produced Water and Recycled Produced Water
                 Alternative that is removed from the Oil and Gas Location for
                 recycling or reuse in Oil and Gas Operations, including by another
                 Oil and Gas Operator; and

           G.    The total volume of all water produced from all wells at the Oil and
                 Gas Location in each month of the reporting quarter.

     (2)   Operators will report the Operator’s water use to the Commission,
           expressed in Barrels, on a quarterly basis, for each geologic basin in
           which the Operator conducted Oil and Gas Operations in the previous
           reporting period. For Oil and Gas Locations outside of the external
           boundary of a geologic basin identified in Colorado Geological Survey
           (CGS) publication MS-33 Oil and Gas Fields Map of Colorado (“Outlying
           Locations”), Operators will include the water used at those Outlying
           Locations with water used at Operations in the basin that is nearest to the
           Outlying Locations. Only the 2002 version of the CGS MS-33 publication
           applies; later versions do not apply. All materials incorporated by
           reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal
           business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
           Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In
           addition the CGS MS-33 publication is available online at:

           https://coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/publications/oil-gas-fields-map-
           colorado-1999/.

           A.    The total volume of all water used across all Oil and Gas Locations
                 within the basin;

           B.    The volume of Recycled Produced Water used across all Oil and
                 Gas Locations within the basin;

           C.    The volume of Recycled Produced Water Alternative used to
                 supplement Recycled Produced Water use across all Oil and Gas
                 Locations within the basin;

           D.    The number of Recycled Produced Water Credits acquired during
                 the reporting period, and a citation to the Form 48 documenting the
                 transfer of those Recycled Produced Water Credits (if applicable);

           E.    The number of Recycled Produced Water Credits created during
                 the reporting period (if applicable);




                                                                                       249
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.     The number of Recycled Produced Water Credits applied during
                  the reporting period (if applicable); and

           G.     The aggregate percentage of Recycled Produced Water used at all
                  applicable Wells within the basin during the relevant four-year
                  compliance period, calculated as: the total volume of Recycled
                  Produced Water used, plus the total volume of Recycled Produced
                  Water Alternative used, plus Recycled Produced Water Credits
                  applied, minus Recycled Produced Water Credits created at all
                  applicable Wells within the basin during the relevant four-year
                  compliance period; divided by the total volume of all water used for
                  Well Stimulations at all applicable Wells within the basin during the
                  relevant four-year compliance period.

     (3)   Operators will:

           A.     File the report required under subsection 431.e.(1) and (2) of this
                  section no later than forty-five days after the end of the previous
                  calendar quarter; and

           B.     Include in each report filed pursuant to subsection 431.e.(1) and (2)
                  of this section the total amounts of all Fresh Water, Produced
                  Water, Recycled Produced Water and Recycled Produced Water
                  Alternative managed at the Oil and Gas Location for any purpose
                  throughout its operational life from construction to Reclamation.
                  Information reported under this subsection 431.e.(2).B does not
                  include Stormwater Runoff.

f.   Vehicle Mileage Reporting. Operators will report quarterly the vehicle miles
     related to water management as follows:

     (1)   Water transport trucks, loaded or unloaded:

           A.     In the service of transporting Fresh Water to or from an Oil and Gas
                  Location;

           B.     In the service of transporting Produced Water to or from an Oil and
                  Gas Location for Disposal; and

           C.     In the service of transporting Produced Water or Recycled
                  Produced Water to or from an Oil and Gas Location for recycling or
                  reuse.

           D.     In the service of transporting Recycled Produced Water Alternative
                  to or from an Oil and Gas Location for recycling or reuse.




                                                                                    250
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

432.   VACUUM PUMPS ON WELLS

a.     The installation of vacuum pumps or other devices for the purpose of imposing a
       vacuum at the wellhead or on any oil or gas bearing reservoir may be approved
       by the Director upon application therefore, except as herein provided. The
       application will be accompanied by an exhibit showing the location of all Wells on
       adjacent premises and all offset Wells on adjacent lands, and will set forth all
       material facts involved and the manner and method of installation proposed.
       Notice of the application will be given by the Applicant by registered or certified
       mail, or by delivering a copy of the application to each producer within 1/2 mile of
       the installation.

b.     If no objection to a Rule 432.a application is filed by a producer within 1/2 mile of
       the installation, or by the Director, within 15 days of the date of application, the
       Director will approve the application. If an objection is filed by any producer within
       1/2 mile of the installation, or the Director, the application will be brought to the
       Commission for hearing pursuant to Rule 510.

433.   USE OF GAS FOR ARTIFICIAL GAS LIFTING

Gas may be used for artificial gas lifting of oil where all such gas returned to the surface
with the oil is used without waste. Where the returned gas is not to be so used, the use
of gas for artificial gas lifting of oil is prohibited unless otherwise specifically ordered and
authorized by the Commission upon hearing.

434.   ABANDONMENT

The requirements for abandoning a Well are as follows:

a.     Plugging.

       (1)    An Operator will plug a dry or abandoned Well, seismic, core, or other
              exploratory hole, in such a manner that oil, gas, water, or other substance
              will be confined to the formation in which it originally occurred, isolating all
              zones specified in Rule 408.e, and zones identified and approved on the
              Form 6, Well Abandonment Report – Notice of Intent to Abandon. If the
              wellbore is not static before setting a plug in an open hole or after casing
              is removed from the wellbore, then the Operator will circulate any
              produced Fluids from the wellbore and will fill the wellbore with wellbore
              Fluids sufficient to maintain a balance or overbalance of the producing
              formation. Wellbore Fluids will be in a static state prior to pumping
              balanced cement plugs, unless the Operator is placing the cement plug as
              a preliminary step to counteract a high pressure or a lost circulation zone
              before establishing a static state. The Operator will fill intervals between
              plugs with wellbore Fluids of sufficient density to exert hydrostatic
              pressure exceeding the greatest formation pressure encountered while
              drilling such interval. If mud is necessary to maintain wellbore Fluids in a
              static state prior to setting plugs, the Operator will use a minimum mud



                                                                                            251
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           weight of 9 pounds per gallon. The Operator will use water spacers both
           ahead of and behind balanced plug cement slurry to minimize cement
           contamination by any wellbore Fluids that are incompatible with the
           cement slurry. Any cement plug will be a minimum of 100 feet in length
           and will extend a minimum of 100 feet above each zone to be isolated.
           The material an Operator uses in plugging, whether cement, mechanical
           plug, or some other equivalent method approved in writing by the Director,
           will be placed in the Well in a manner to permanently prevent migration of
           oil, gas, water, or other substance from the formation in which it originally
           occurred. Cement will conform to the requirements in Rule 408.f. The
           Operator will ensure the slurry design achieves a minimum compressive
           strength of 300 psi after 24 hours and 800 psi after 72 hours measured at
           95° Fahrenheit, or at the minimum expected downhole temperature, and
           at 800 psi confining pressure.

     (2)   The Operator will have the option as to the method of placing cement in
           the hole by (a) dump bailer, (b) pumping a balanced cement plug through
           tubing or drill pipe, (c) pump and plug, or (d) equivalent method approved
           by the Director prior to plugging. Unless prior approval is given, all
           wellbores will have water, mud, or other approved Fluid between all plugs.

     (3)   An Operator will not place substances of any nature or description other
           than that normally used in plugging operations in any Well at any time
           during plugging operations. An Operator will submit all final reports of
           Plugging and Abandonment on a Form 6 and include an operations
           summary or cement verification report from the plugging contractor,
           specifying the type of Fluid used to fill the wellbore, type and slurry volume
           of API Class cement used, date of work, and depth the plugs were placed.

     (4)   An Operator may not pull surface casing from any Well unless authorized
           by the Director.

     (5)   All abandoned Wells will have a plug or seal placed in the casing and all
           open annuli from a depth of 50 feet to the surface of the ground or the
           bottom of the cellar in the hole in such manner as not to interfere with soil
           cultivation or other surface use. For below-grade markers, the Operator
           will fit the top of the casing with a screw cap or a steel plate welded in
           place with a weep hole. For above-grade markers, the Operator will fit the
           top of the casing with a screw cap or a steel plate welded in place with a
           weep hole, and a permanent monument that will be a pipe not less than
           four inches in diameter and not less than 10 feet in length, of which four
           feet will be above ground level and the remainder embedded in cement or
           welded to the surface casing. Whether a below-grade or an above-grade
           marker is used, the Operator will inscribe the marker with the Well’s legal
           location, Well name and number, and API Number. The Operator will not
           cap or seal the Well until 5 days after placing the last plug to allow




                                                                                     252
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           monitoring for successful plugging and will cap or seal the Well within 90
           days after placing the last plug.

     (6)   The Operator will obtain approval from the Director of the plugging method
           prior to plugging, and will notify the Director of the estimated time and date
           the plugging operation of any Well is to commence, and identify the depth
           and thickness of all known sources of Groundwater. The Operator will
           verify the placement of the plug required at the base of Groundwater and
           the placement of any other plug specified by the Director by tagging or by
           an alternative method approved by the Director. For good cause shown,
           the Director may require that a cement plug be tagged if a cement retainer
           or bridge plug is not used. If requested by the Operator, the Director will
           furnish written follow-up documentation for a requirement to tag cement
           plugs.

     (7)   Wells Converted for Water Supply. When the Well, seismic, core, or
           other exploratory hole to be plugged may safely be used as a water supply
           well, and such utilization is desired by the Surface Owner, the well need
           not be filled above the required sealing plug set below Groundwater;
           provided that written authority for such use is secured from the Surface
           Owner and, in such written authority, the Surface Owner assumes the
           responsibility to plug the well upon its abandonment as a water well
           pursuant to the Commission’s Rules. Such written authority and
           assumption of responsibility will be filed with the Commission, provided
           further that the Surface Owner furnishes a copy of the permit for a water
           well approved by the Division of Water Resources.

b.   Temporary Abandonment.

     (1)   If an Operator Temporarily Abandons a Well, the Operator will file a Form
           4 within 30 days reporting and describing such activity, including the
           method used to ensure that the Well is closed to the atmosphere and the
           Operator’s plans for future operation of the Well.

     (2)   A Well may be Temporarily Abandoned for a period not to exceed 6
           months, if:

           A.     It has passed a successful mechanical integrity test pursuant to
                  Rule 417.c, and the Director has approved the applicable Form 21;

           B.     The Operator cases or leaves the hole so as to prevent migration of
                  oil, gas, water, or other substance from the formation or horizon in
                  which it originally occurred;

           C.     The Operator closes the Well to the atmosphere with a swedge and
                  valve or packer, or other approved method, and maintains it in that
                  condition;




                                                                                     253
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.    The Well sign remains in place; and

           E.    The Operator properly reports the Well as Temporarily Abandoned
                 on the Form 7.

     (3)   A Well may be Temporarily Abandoned for a period that exceeds 6
           months if:

           A.    The Operator complies with all requirements of Rule 434.b.(2);

           B.    The Operator submits a Form 4 requesting the extension of time,
                 stating the reason for the request, and explaining plans for future
                 operation;

           C.    The Operator complies with all requirements of Rule 434.c.(1).B;

           D.    The Operator performs all subsequent mechanical integrity tests
                 required at the frequency specified in Rule 417.c.(2).

c.   Plugging Inactive Wells.

     (1)   Within 6 months of a Well becoming Inactive, the Operator will Plug and
           Abandon the Well, unless the Operator:

           A.    Brings the Well back to production so that it is no longer an Inactive
                 Well;

           B.    Files a Form 5B, Inactive Well Notice and provides Single Well
                 Financial Assurance via a Form 3A, Financial Assurance, if
                 required by the Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan’s
                 requirements related to Low Producing Wells; or

           C.    Files a Form 6A, Out of Service Designation, to designate the Well
                 as Out of Service pursuant to Rule 434.d.

     (2)   Form 5B, Inactive Well Notice. An Operator will submit to the Director a
           completed Form 5B for every Inactive Well.

           A.    Information Requirements. Operators will provide the following
                 information on a Form 5B:

                 i.     The reason why the Well for which the Form 5B is provided
                        is Inactive; and

                 ii.    The Financial Assurance Option and most recent
                        Commission Order or Director Decision approving the
                        Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan.




                                                                                   254
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     Director Designation. The Director will designate any Well as
                  Inactive if the Director has reasonable cause to believe that such
                  Well is Inactive based on a review of an Operator’s Form 7,
                  Operator’s Monthly Report of Operations. If an Operator disagrees
                  with the Director’s determination, it may appeal to the Commission
                  pursuant to 503.g.(10). The matter will not be assigned to an
                  Administrative Law Judge pursuant to Rule 503.h. The Commission
                  will hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting.

           C.     Form 5C, Inactive Exception Request. An Operator may file a
                  Form 5C to request from the Director an exception from the
                  designation of a Well as Inactive for good cause. The Director will
                  not approve a Form 5C unless the Operator demonstrates in
                  sufficient detail that the Well for which a Form 5B would be
                  provided is not properly designated as Inactive.

d.   Out of Service Designation and Plugging List. An Operator will designate a
     Well as Out of Service on a Form 6A, Out of Service Designation, and the Out of
     Service Well is then placed on the Operator’s Plugging List.

     (1)   An Operator may submit a Form 6A by December 31, 2023, or with a
           revised Financial Assurance Plan pursuant to Rule 702.b.(2). The
           designation of a Well is changed to Out of Service and the Out of Service
           Well is placed on an Operator’s Plugging List effective the date of
           submission of the Form 6A.

     (2)   Wells. An Operator may submit a Form 6A:

           A.     For an oil or gas Well, after permanently ceasing hydrocarbon
                  production;

           B.     For a Class II UIC Well, after permanently ceasing injection; or

           C.     For a Suspended Operations Well, a Waiting on Completion Well, a
                  Well used for monitoring or observation, or a Stratigraphic Well,
                  after the Well has been Shut-In or Temporarily Abandoned.

     (3)   Information Requirements for a Form 6A. Operators will provide the
           following information on a Form 6A:

           A.     The API number, name, and number of each Well the Operator
                  proposes to add to its Plugging List and the date each Well ceased
                  production or utilization;

           B.     Whether each Well is located within 2,000 feet of a School Facility,
                  Child Care Center, High Occupancy Building Unit, or Residential
                  Building Unit within a Disproportionately Impacted Community;




                                                                                     255
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.    Whether each Well is located within wildlife habitat identified by
                 Rule 1202.c;

           D.    The number of Wells the Operator has Plugged and Abandoned
                 during the previous 12 months;

           E.    Evidence that the Operator is financially capable of meeting the
                 timelines required by Rule 434.d.(4) for its Plugging List; and

           F.    Whether the Operator has detected a leak that was included on the
                 Operator’s delayed repair list in accordance with Colorado
                 Department of Public Health and Environment, Air Quality Control
                 Commission (“AQCC”) Regulation No. 7, Control of Ozone Via
                 Ozone Precursors and Control of Hydrocarbons Via Oil and Gas
                 Emissions (Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds and Nitrogen
                 Oxides), 5 C.C.R. §§ 1001-9:D.II.E.8 & 9 (2022) (hereinafter
                 “AQCC Regulation 7 Delayed Repair List Recordkeeping and
                 Reporting Rules”). Only the version of the AQCC Regulation 7
                 Delayed Repair Recordkeeping and Reporting Rules in effect as of
                 April 30, 2022 applies; later amendments do not apply. All materials
                 incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public
                 inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
                 Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street,
                 Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, the AQCC Regulation 7
                 Delayed Repair List Recordkeeping and Reporting Rules are
                 available from the Colorado Department of Public Health and
                 Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246,
                 and is available online at
                 https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/aqcc-regs.

     (4)   Plugging and Abandonment of Out of Service Wells. An Operator will
           Plug and Abandon, commence Reclamation pursuant to Rule 1004, and,
           as applicable, commence site investigation, Remediation, and closure
           pursuant to Rules 913, 914, and 915 on each Out of Service Well on its
           Plugging List within the timeframes outlined below.

           A.    Reducing Impacts to Disproportionately Impacted
                 Communities. Operators will prioritize the Plugging and
                 Abandonment of all Out of Service Wells identified pursuant to Rule
                 434.d.(3).B.

           B.    If an Operator submits a Form 6A on or before December 31, 2023,
                 the Operator will Plug and Abandon all designated Wells within the
                 following timeframe:

                 i.     For a Form 6A that contains 1–10 Wells, no later than
                        December 31, 2027;




                                                                                      256
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.    For a Form 6A that contains 11–50 Wells, no later than
                        December 31, 2028;

                 iii.   For a Form 6A that contains 51–250 Wells, no later than
                        December 31, 2029; and

                 iv.    For a Form 6A that contains 251 or more Wells, no later than
                        December 31, 2030.

           C.    If an Operator submits a Form 6A after December 31, 2023, the
                 Operator will Plug and Abandon all designated Wells within four
                 years from the Form 6A submittal date.

     (5)   Exception for Depressurization. Plugging and Abandonment of an Out
           of Service Well may require depressurization of the Well immediately prior
           to the permanent plugging of such Well. This depressurization, even if it
           results in gas production through sales equipment, is not considered
           hydrocarbon production for purposes of this Rule 434.d.

     (6)   Removal from Plugging List. A Well is removed from an Operator’s
           Plugging List:

                 i.     If an Out of Service Well is transferred to a Buying
                        Operator’s Plugging List or repurposed for beneficial use
                        pursuant to Rule 434.d.(9); or

                 ii.    Following the Director’s approval of the Well’s Form 6, Well
                        Abandonment Report – Subsequent Report of Abandonment
                        pursuant to Rule 435.b.(2). The removal of a Well from an
                        Operator’s Plugging List does not relieve an Operator of its
                        obligations pursuant to Rules 913, 914, 915, and 1004 for
                        such Well.

     (7)   Form 6B, Annual Out of Service Wells Report. An Operator will file a
           Form 6B, Annual Out of Service Wells Report, for the previous calendar
           year not later than March 31 of each year.

           A.    The Form 6B will document the progress of each of the following
                 operations as of December 31 of the previous calendar year, as
                 applicable, for each Out of Service Well on the Operator’s Plugging
                 List:

                 i.     Plugging and Abandonment;

                 ii.    Physical termination of electric service to associated
                        Production Facilities;




                                                                                    257
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 iii.   Purging of all piping, tanks, vessels, and other surface
                        equipment; and

                 iv.    Application of OOSLAT consistent with the 1100 Series.

           B.    The Form 6B will identify which Out of Service Wells have not been
                 Plugged and Abandoned and are located within 2,000 feet of a
                 School Facility, Child Care Center, High Occupancy Building Unit,
                 or Residential Building Unit within a Disproportionately Impacted
                 Community.

           C.    The Form 6B will identify which Out of Service Wells have not been
                 Plugged and Abandoned and are located within wildlife habitat
                 identified by Rule 1202.c.

           D.    The Form 6B will describe the Operator’s compliance with the
                 timelines in Rule 434.d.(4).

           E.    The Form 6B will identify whether the Operator has detected a leak
                 that was included on the Operator’s delayed repair list in
                 accordance with AQCC Regulation 7 Delayed Repair List
                 Recordkeeping and Reporting Rules, 5 C.C.R. §§ 1001-9:D.II.E.8 &
                 9, as incorporated by reference in Rule 434.d.(3).F.

     (8)   Director’s Review of Plugging List and Form 6B. At any time, the
           Director may review an Operator’s Plugging List or its most recent Form
           6B to determine whether the Operator is financially and operationally
           capable of timely Plugging and Abandoning the Wells on its Plugging List
           within the timelines in Rule 434.d.(4).

           A.    The Director may request additional information from an Operator
                 to demonstrate that it is financially and operationally capable of
                 timely Plugging and Abandoning the Wells on its Plugging List.
                 Such information may include the number and percentage of its
                 Wells the Operator Plugged and Abandoned during the previous
                 calendar years and its access to equipment, human, and capital
                 resources necessary to timely Plug and Abandon its Out of Service
                 Wells.

           B.    If, following a review of an Operator’s Plugging List or most recent
                 Form 6B, the Director has reasonable cause to believe that the
                 Operator lacks the financial and operational ability to timely Plug
                 and Abandon the Wells on its Plugging List or is not making
                 substantial progress towards its obligations as demonstrated by
                 progress reporting required by Rule 434.d.(7).A, and other
                 information provided, the Director may:




                                                                                   258
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  i.     Request additional Financial Assurance for some or all of the
                         Out of Service Wells on the Operator’s Plugging List; or

                  ii.    File an application for a Financial Assurance hearing
                         pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) and request that the
                         Commission order that the Operator provide Single Well
                         Financial Assurance for each Well on its Plugging List.

            C.    If the Operator disagrees with the Director’s request under Rule
                  434.d.(8).B.i, the Operator may file an application for a Financial
                  Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11).

     (9)    Transferring an Out of Service Well or Repurposing an Out of Service
            Well for Beneficial Use.

            A.    If a Selling Operator transfers an Out of Service Well, the Buying
                  Operator assumes the obligations for the Well under this Rule
                  434.d, and must Plug and Abandon the Well or repurpose the Well
                  for a beneficial use other than hydrocarbon production based on
                  the Selling Operator’s timeline pursuant to Rule 434.d.(4) unless
                  the Buying Operator files, and the Director approves, a Revised
                  Form 6A with an alternative timeline for the Buying Operator.

            B.    An Operator may repurpose an Out of Service Well on its Plugging
                  List for a beneficial use other than hydrocarbon production, subject
                  to the Director’s written approval of a Revised Form 6A.

     (10)   Financial Assurance. If an Operator does not Plug and Abandon an Out
            of Service Well within the timelines in Rule 434.d.(4), the Operator will
            immediately provide Single Well Financial Assurance for the Well.

     (11)   Wellbore Integrity for Out of Service Wells.

            A.    An Operator will continue to conduct Bradenhead monitoring and
                  testing pursuant to Rules 419 & 420 on an Out of Service Well until
                  the Operator Plugs and Abandons such Well. An Operator is not
                  required to conduct mechanical integrity testing on an Out of
                  Service Well pursuant to Rule 417 but is subject to the mechanical
                  integrity testing requirements set forth in this Rule 434.d.(11).

            B.    If an Out of Service Well is not equipped with Bradenhead access,
                  the Well must pass an initial mechanical integrity test pursuant to
                  Rule 417 and subsequent mechanical integrity tests at the
                  frequency specified in Rule 417.c.(2).

            C.    The Director may require the Operator to perform a mechanical
                  integrity test if the Director has reasonable cause to believe the
                  Well poses a particular risk to public health, safety, welfare, the



                                                                                        259
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                     environment, or wildlife resources. Except as otherwise required by
                     Rule 419 or 420 or an imminent and substantial threat to public
                     health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, an
                     Operator will have 12 months to perform a mechanical integrity test
                     required by the Director under this Rule 434.d.(11).C.

              D.     Inspection Requirements. An Operator will conduct an Audio,
                     Visual, Olfactory (“AVO”) or other inspection of each Out of Service
                     Well annually to confirm integrity of the wellhead. When performing
                     an AVO inspection, an Operator will survey the wellhead using
                     audio, visual, and olfactory techniques to detect failures, leaks,
                     Spills, or Releases, or signs of a leak, Spill, or Release.

       (12)   This Rule 434.d does not apply to Gas Storage Wells, which the
              Commission considers to be active at all times unless the Gas Storage
              Well is physically plugged.

435.   FORM 6, WELL ABANDONMENT REPORTS

a.     Form 6, Notice of Intent to Abandon. Prior to the abandonment of a Well, a
       Form 6, Well Abandonment Report – Notice of Intent to Abandon will be
       submitted to, and approved by, the Director. The Form 6 – Notice of Intent to
       Abandon will be completed and attachments included to fully describe the
       proposed abandonment operations. This includes the proposed depths of
       mechanical plugs and casing cuts; the proposed depths and volumes of all
       cement plugs; the amount, size and depth of casing and junk to be left in the
       Well; the volume, weight, and type of Fluid to be left in the wellbore between
       cement or mechanical plugs; and the nature and quantities of any other materials
       to be used in the plugging. The Operator will provide a current wellbore diagram
       and a wellbore diagram showing the proposed plugging procedure with the Form
       6. If the Well is not plugged within six months of approval, the operator will file a
       new Form 6 – Notice of Intent to Abandon.

       (1)    The Director may add any conditions of the approval to a Form 6 – Notice
              of Intent to Abandon that are necessary and reasonable to ensure
              compliance with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules or to protect
              and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
              environment, and wildlife resources.

       (2)    The Director will review the Oil and Gas Location where the Well is
              located to ensure that necessary and reasonable conditions of approval
              are applied to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health,
              safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

       (3)    Notice Requirements. An Operator will provide notice of plugging
              operations to the Surface Owner pursuant to Rule 412.a.(4).

b.     Form 6, Subsequent Report of Abandonment.



                                                                                        260
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Within 30 days after abandonment, the Form 6, Well Abandonment Report
           – Subsequent Report of Abandonment will be filed with the Director. The
           abandonment details will include an account of the manner in which the
           abandonment or plugging work was performed. Copies of any casing
           pressure test results and downhole Logs run during Plugging and
           Abandonment will be submitted with the Form 6. Additionally, plugging
           verification reports detailing all procedures are required. A plugging
           verification report will be submitted for each person or contractor actually
           setting the plugs. The Form 6 – Subsequent Report of Abandonment and
           the plugging verification reports will detail the depths of mechanical plugs
           and casing cuts, the depths and volumes of all cement plugs, the amount,
           size, and depth of casing and junk left in the Well, the volume and weight
           of Fluid left in the wellbore, and the nature and quantities of any other
           materials used in the plugging. Plugging verification reports will conform
           with the Operator's report and both will show that plugging procedures are
           at least as extensive as those approved by the Director.

     (2)   The Director will review an Operator’s Form 6 – Subsequent Report of
           Abandonment, plugging records, and the Well file to evaluate the
           abandonment or plugging work performed. The Director will approve the
           form or identify deficiencies for the Operator to correct and may require
           one of the following:

           A.     Surface or subsurface monitoring programs after the Well has been
                  plugged and abandoned, if a subsurface or surface Release
                  occurred or may occur;

           B.     Re-entering the Well to perform remedial cement work or Plugging
                  and Abandonment work; or

           C.     Any other actions necessary to ensure proper Plugging and
                  Abandonment of the Well.

     (3)   If the Operator does not take actions necessary to correct deficiencies, the
           Director may issue a corrective action pursuant to Rule 210.

c.   Re-Plugging. A Form 6 – Notice of Intent to Abandon will be submitted to, and
     approved by, the Director pursuant to Rules 435.a.(1)–(3) prior to the re-entry of
     a Plugged and Abandoned Well for the purpose of re-plugging the Well. A Form
     6 – Subsequent Report of Abandonment will be filed with the Director within 30
     days of the completion of the re-plugging operations. These forms will be
     submitted with all the information required above and any additional information
     required by current policy.

d.   As-Drilled Location. For all Wells being plugged, the Operator will report the
     latitude and longitude coordinates of the “as drilled” Well location on the Form 6.
     When plugging a Well for which this data has been obtained and submitted to the




                                                                                    261
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Commission previously, the Operator will submit this data on the Form 6 – Notice
       of Intent to Abandon. When plugging a Well for which this data has not yet been
       obtained and submitted to the Commission, the Operator will determine the “as
       drilled” location prior to plugging and submit the location on the Form 6 –
       Subsequent Report of Abandonment. The latitude and longitude coordinates will
       be in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five decimals of a degree
       using the North American Datum (“NAD”) of 1983 (e.g., latitude 37.12345,
       longitude -104.45632). If the Operator uses GPS technology to determine the
       latitude and longitude, all GPS data will meet the requirements set forth in Rule
       216. The Operator will report the accuracy value expressed in meters and the
       date of the GPS measurement on the Form 6.

436.   SEISMIC OPERATIONS, NOTICE, CONSULTATION AND REPORTING

a.     Surface Owner and Tenant Notice. At least 5 business days prior to
       commencing Seismic Operations, the Operator will notify all Surface Owners and
       tenants of the lands included within the seismic project boundary.

       (1)    Notice will include:

              A.     A description of the work being performed;

              B.     A detailed schedule of the operations;

              C.     Phone numbers that are monitored 24/7 and email addresses for
                     the company and contractors performing the work; and

              D.     All safety precautions employed by the Operator and any safety
                     precautions and information that Surface Owners and tenants
                     should be aware of.

       (2)    Operators will provide notice to each Surface Owner or tenant individually
              by letter or door hanger.

       (3)    Operators are encouraged to post notice of planned Seismic Operations
              on neighborhood, community, or municipal websites. Operators are also
              encouraged to coordinate notice through Relevant Local Governments,
              home-owners’ associations, or neighborhood associations. However, such
              additional notice will not relieve the Operator of its responsibilities under
              Rule 436.a.

b.     Utility Owner Notice and Consultation. Prior to the commencement of any
       Seismic Operation, Operators will notify and consult with owners of all
       subsurface utilities, including gas service lines, gas transmission lines, electric,
       phone, cable, water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, fiber optic lines, water wells, or
       other buried utilities in the area.

       (1)    Operators will locate all utilities prior to performing the survey.



                                                                                       262
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Operators will meet or consult with the utility operator to determine safe
           peak vibration limits (when vibroseis will be used) and setback distances
           from buried utilities. Operators will retain documentation demonstrating
           that they consulted with all utility Operators and that the utility agreed to
           specific peak vibration limits and setback distances (both laterally and
           vertically) for the utilities.

c.   Upon a request from the Director, and within 5 days of said request, Operators
     will provide documentation demonstrating that they complied with Rules 436.a. &
     b.

d.   Vibration Limits.

     (1)   Operators will determine in advance safe setback distances from both
           surface structures and subsurface utilities and structures.

     (2)   Operators will perform real time monitoring during vibroseis operations to
           verify and document that variable particle velocity versus frequency
           standards published in the U.S. Bureau of Mines, Report of Investigations
           8507 (November 1980) are not exceeded. Only the 1980 version of U.S.
           Bureau of Mines’ Report of Investigations 8507 applies; later versions do
           not apply. U.S. Bureau of Mines’ Report of Investigations 8507 is available
           for inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
           Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
           801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, U.S. Bureau of Mines’ Report of
           Investigations 8507 may be examined at the U.S. Department of the
           Interior, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 3
           Parkway Center Pittsburgh, PA 15220, and is available at
           https://www.osmre.gov/resources/blasting/docs/USBM/RI8507BlastingVibr
           ation1989.pdf.

     (3)   Unless a lower limit is required by a utility owner or a Relevant Local
           Government, a peak vibration limit of 0.75 inches per second (“ips”) will
           apply to surface structures and 2.0 ips will apply to subsurface utilities and
           structures.

e.   Seismic Operations Requiring the Drilling of Shotholes.

     (1)   Explosive Storage. Operators will safely store and account for all
           explosives pursuant to local, state, and federal rules.

     (2)   Blasting Safety Setbacks. Operators will keep blasting a safe distance
           from a Building Unit, water well, or spring, according to the following
           minimum setback distances:




                                                                                      263
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


     CHARGES IN LBS.            CHARGES IN LBS. UP            MINIMUM
     GREATER THAN               TO AND INCLUDING              SETBACK
                                                              DISTANCE IN FEET

     0                          2                             200

     2                          5                             300

     5                          6                             360

     6                          7                             420

     7                          8                             480

     8                          9                             540

     9                          10                            600

     10                         11                            649

     11                         12                            696

     12                         13                            741

     13                         14                            784

     14                         15                            825

     15                         16                            864

     16                         17                            901

     17                         18                            936

     18                         19                            969

     19                         20                            1000

     20                         n/a                           1320

     (3)   Prior to any shothole drilling, the Operator will contact the Utility
           Notification Center of Colorado (CO 811).

     (4)   Drilling and Plugging. Operators will adhere to the following standards for
           plugging shotholes unless the Operator obtains a variance pursuant to
           Rule 502 by demonstrating that another method will provide adequate
           protection to Groundwater quality and movement and long-term land
           stability:




                                                                                    264
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          A.    Any slurry, drilling Fluids, or cuttings which are deposited on the
                surface around the seismic hole will be raked or otherwise spread
                out to at least within 1 inch of the surface, such that the growth of
                the natural grasses or foliage will not be impaired.

          B.    All shotholes will be preplugged or anchored to prevent public
                access if not immediately shot.

                i.     If a preplug does not hold, seismic holes will be properly
                       Plugged and Abandoned as soon as practical after the shot
                       has been fired. In no case will Operators leave a shothole
                       unplugged for more than 30 days without the Director’s
                       approval.

                ii.    Shotholes will not be left open. Operators will cover
                       shotholes with a tin hat or other similar cover until it can be
                       properly plugged. The hats will be imprinted with the seismic
                       contractor's name or identification number or mark.

          C.    Operators will fill holes to a depth of approximately 3 feet below
                ground level by returning the cuttings to the hole and tamping the
                returned cuttings to ensure the hole is not bridged.

                i.     Operators will set a non-metallic perma-plug either imprinted
                       or tagged with the Operator’s name or the identification
                       number or mark described in the Form 20, Permit to Conduct
                       Seismic Operations at a depth of 3 feet.

                ii.    Operators will fill the remaining hole and tamp it to the
                       surface with cuttings and native soil. Operators will leave a
                       sufficient mound of native soil over the hole to allow for
                       settling.

          D.    If Operators encounter non-artesian Groundwater while drilling
                seismic shotholes:

                i.     Operators will fill the holes from the bottom up with a high-
                       grade coarse ground bentonite to 10 feet above the static
                       water level or to a depth of 3 feet from the surface.

                ii.    Operators will fill the remaining hole and tamp it to the
                       surface with cuttings and native soil, unless the Operator
                       otherwise demonstrates to the Director’s satisfaction that
                       use of another suitable plugging material may be substituted
                       for bentonite without harm to Groundwater resources.

          E.    If artesian Groundwater (Groundwater rising above the depth at
                which encountered) is encountered in the drilling of any seismic



                                                                                   265
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  hole, cement or high grade coarse ground bentonite will be used to
                  seal off the water flow with the selected material placed from the
                  bottom of the hole to the surface or at least 50 feet above the top of
                  the water-bearing material, thereby preventing cross-flow between
                  Groundwater, erosion, or contamination of fresh water supplies.
                  Such holes will be plugged immediately.

f.   Form 20A, Completion Report for Seismic Operations.

     (1)   If any portion of the seismic project is conducted, the Operator will submit
           a Form 20A, Completion Report for Seismic Operations to the Director
           within 60 days after completion of the permitted seismic project.

     (2)   The Form 20A will include the following:

           A.     A map in a suitable size and scale to show the actual project
                  boundary, energy source locations, and receiver locations with
                  sections, townships, and ranges, county and municipal boundaries,
                  and High Priority Habitat.

           B.     GIS data for the actual project boundary, energy source points, and
                  receiver locations in a format approved by the Director.

           C.     The results of the real time monitoring required by Rule 436.d.(2).

     (3)   If the program included any shotholes, the Form 20A will include:

           A.     Any shotholes encountering artesian water on the map;

           B.     A certification by the party responsible for plugging the holes that all
                  shotholes are plugged as prescribed by the Commission’s Rules;
                  and

     (4)   If the permitted seismic project is not conducted prior to the expiration of
           the Form 20, the Operator will submit a Form 20A within 30 days of said
           expiration certifying that no Seismic Operations were conducted. If an
           Operator submits a Refile Form 20 within 30 days of the expiration of the
           Form 20, a Form 20A certifying no Seismic Operations were conducted is
           not required.

g.   Financial Assurance Requirements. The Operator will file Financial Assurance
     pursuant to Rule 703.b prior to submitting the Form 20.

h.   Reclamation Requirements. Upon completion of Seismic Operations, the
     Operator will restore the surface of the land as nearly as possible to its original
     condition at the commencement of Seismic Operations. Appropriate Reclamation
     of disturbed areas will vary depending upon site-specific conditions and may
     include compaction alleviation and revegetation. All flagging, stakes, cables,



                                                                                      266
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       cement, mud sacks, trash, or other materials associated with Seismic Operations
       will be removed.

437.   Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Additives.

a.     Effective Date. After January 15, 2021, Operators will not use the chemicals
       listed in Table 437-1 as additives in Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid.

b.     This Rule 437 does not prevent Operators from recycling or reusing produced
       water that has naturally occurring, trace amounts of chemicals listed in Table
       437-1.

c.     For any chemical constituent listed in Table 437-1 for which Table 915-1 also
       provides a standard, the concentration in recycled or reused produced water will
       be below the Table 915-1 standard, or the unconcentrated naturally occurring
       background level, whichever is greater.

TABLE 437-1. Chemical Additives Prohibited in Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid


                           Ingredient Name                                   CAS #
 Benzene                                                                71-43-2
 Lead                                                                   7439-92-1
 Mercury                                                                7439-97-6
 Arsenic                                                                740-38-2
 Cadmium                                                                7440-43-9
 Chromium                                                               7440-47-3
 Ethylbenzene                                                           100-41-4
 Xylene                                                                 1330-20-7
 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene                                                 108-67-8
 1,4-dioxane                                                            123-91-1
 1-butanol                                                              71-36-3
 2-butoxyethanol                                                        111-76-2
 N,N-dimethylformamide                                                  68-12-2
 2-ethylhexanol                                                         104-76-7
 2-mercaptoethanol                                                      60-24-2
 benzene, 1,1’-oxybis-,tetrapropylene derivatives, sulfonated, sodium   119345-04-9
 salts (BOTS)
 butyl glycidyl ether                                                   8-6-2426
 Quaternary ammonium compounds, dicoco alkyldimethyl, chlorides         61789-77-3
 (QAC)
 Bis hexamethylene triamine penta methylene phosphonic acid             35657-77-3
 (BMPA)
 Diethylenetriamine penta (methylene- phosphonic acid) (DMPA)           15827-60-8
 FD&C blue no. 1                                                        3844-45-9
 Tetrakis (triethanolaminato) zirconium (IV) (TTZ)                      101033-44-7



                                                                                        267
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


500 SERIES RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

501.   APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

a.     General. The Commission’s 500 Series Rules will be known and designated as
       “Rules of Practice and Procedure before the Oil and Gas Conservation
       Commission of the State of Colorado,” and will apply to all proceedings before
       the Commission. The Commission’s Rules will be liberally construed to secure
       the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of all issues presented to the
       Commission, Administrative Law Judges, and Hearing Officers.

b.     Prohibition of Abuse. Notwithstanding any provision of the Commission’s
       Rules, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will, upon
       its own motion or upon the motion of a party to a proceeding, act to prohibit or
       terminate any abuse of process by an Applicant, petitioner, witness, or party
       offering a statement pursuant to Rule 512 in a proceeding. Such action may
       include, but is not limited to: summary dismissal of the application, petition, or
       other pleading; limitation or prohibition of harassing or abusive testimony;
       limitation or prohibition of excessive motion filing; restricted discovery; and
       finding a party in contempt. Grounds for such action may include, but are not
       limited to, the use of the Commission's procedures for reasons of obstruction and
       delay; misrepresentation in pleadings or testimony; or other inappropriate or
       outrageous conduct that is deemed by the Commission, Administrative Law
       Judge, or Hearing Officer to be an abuse of process.

c.     Before the Commission adopts any Rule or regulation, enters any order or
       amendment thereof, or grants any variance pursuant to Rule 502, the
       Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will hold a public
       hearing at such time and place as may be prescribed by the Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer. Any party will be entitled to be
       heard as provided in the Commission’s Rules. The foregoing will not apply to
       recommended orders of uncontested matters, the issuance of an Emergency
       Order, Notice of Alleged Violation (“NOAV”), or Cease and Desist Order.

d.     Judicial Review. Any Rule, regulation, permit, or final order of the Commission,
       whether approved by the Director or the Commission, is subject to judicial review
       pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, §§ 24-4-101–108,
       C.R.S. The statutory time period for filing a notice of appeal from any
       Commission decision commences pursuant to § 24-4-106(4), C.R.S.

502.   VARIANCES

a.     Variances. Requests for variances to any of the Commission’s Rules or orders
       will be filed with the Commission.

b.     Director Recommended Variances. Variances seeking relief from the
       ministerial application of a Commission Rule or order may be recommended for



                                                                                        268
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       approval by the Director. If the application for a variance is uncontested, the
       Commission will consider the Director’s recommendation pursuant to Rule 508. If
       the Director determines that an application for a variance is not ministerial or
       implicates public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources,
       the Director will refer the application to the Commission for hearing pursuant to
       Rule 510.

       (1)   Variances Sought from Commission. Variances to any of the
             Commission’s Rules or orders not applied for pursuant to Rule 502.b may
             be granted by the Commission after a hearing upon the application.

       (2)   For purposes of seeking a variance from the Commission, only the
             Operator or an Applicant authorized by the Commission’s Rules may file
             an application seeking the Commission’s approval of a variance.

c.     The Operator or the Applicant requesting a variance pursuant to Rule 502.a will
       make a showing that:

       (1)   It has made a good faith effort to comply, or is unable to comply, with the
             specific requirements contained in the Commission’s Rule or order from
             which it seeks a variance, including, without limitation, securing a waiver
             or an exception, if any;

       (2)   That the requested variance will not violate the basic intent of the Act;

       (3)   The requested variance is necessary to avoid an undue hardship;

       (4)   Granting the variance will result in no net adverse impact to public health,
             safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources; and

       (5)   The requested variance contains reasonable conditions of approval or
             other mitigation measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse impacts
             to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

d.     No variance to the Commission’s 800 Series Rules, Rules 1401-1402, or Rules
       1404-1426 will be granted without consultation with the EPA.

e.     Notice of all granted variances also will be posted on the Commission’s website.

503.   APPLICATIONS FOR A HEARING BEFORE THE COMMISSION

a.     Commission's Own Motion. The Commission may, on its own motion, initiate
       proceedings upon any question relating to Energy and Carbon Management
       Operations in the State of Colorado, or to the administration of the Act or
       Geothermal Act, by notice of hearing or by issuance of an Emergency Order
       without notice of hearing. Such Emergency Order will be effective upon issuance
       and will remain effective for a period not to exceed 15 days. Notice of an
       Emergency Order will be given as soon as practicable after issuance.



                                                                                         269
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   All proceedings that require a Commission decision, other than those initiated by
     the Commission, will be commenced by filing an application for a hearing before
     the Commission.

c.   All applications will include at a minimum:

     (1)    The Applicant’s name and email address;

     (2)    If the Applicant is an Operator registered with the Commission, the
            Operator’s Commission identification number;

     (3)    Identification of the type of application submitted;

     (4)    All geologic formations, if necessary for adjudication of the application;

     (5)    The location of applicable lands (including county, Field name, Township /
            Range / Section, and nearby public crossroads) and map of the same;

     (6)    The name and contact information (including email) for an Operator or
            Applicant representative designated to receive questions and petitions;

     (7)    A description of the relief requested, set forth in reasonable detail;

     (8)    The legal and factual grounds for the requested relief;

     (9)    A prayer for relief;

     (10)   If applicable, the name, mailing address, phone number, and email
            address of the Applicant’s legal counsel;

     (11)   The name of each person entitled to receive notice of the application
            under the Commission’s Rules; and

     (12)   Any information required by the Commission’s Rules that is specific to the
            application.

d.   All applications will be executed by a person with authority to do so on behalf of
     the Applicant, and the contents thereof will be verified by a party with sufficient
     knowledge to confirm the facts contained therein.

e.   The originally signed application will be maintained by the filing party. The
     electronically submitted application, and all subsequent documents submitted,
     are Commission public records.

f.   Each application, except those filed by a Governmental Agency or the
     Commission, will be accompanied by a docket fee established by the
     Commission (see Appendix III).




                                                                                         270
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

g.   Commission Application Types. The following applications may be filed with
     the Commission for adjudication:

     (1)    Oil and Gas Development Plan. An Oil and Gas Development Plan
            application will satisfy the requirements set forth in Rule 303. Only an
            Owner or Operator within the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan
            may file an Oil and Gas Development Plan.

     (2)    Drilling Units. Pursuant to Rule 305, applications for the creation of
            drilling units, additional Wells within existing drilling units, other
            applications for modifications to existing drilling unit orders, or applications
            for exception locations not subject to Rule 401.c. Only an Owner or
            Operator within the proposed or existing unit may file an application
            pursuant to this Rule 503.g.(2).

     (3)    Pooling and Unitization Applications. A statutory pooling application
            filed pursuant to § 34-60-116, C.R.S., or a unitization application filed
            pursuant to § 34-60-118, C.R.S. Unitization applications will satisfy the
            information requirements set forth in Rule 505. Statutory pooling
            applications will satisfy the information requirements set forth in Rules 505
            & 506.

     (4)    Order Finding Violation. An Order Finding Violation (“OFV”) application
            will include the NOAV. Only the Director may be the Applicant for an OFV.

     (5)    Payment of Proceeds. A payment of proceeds application will satisfy the
            information requirements set forth in Rules 429 or 430, and will be
            submitted on a Form 38, Payment of Proceeds Hearing Request.

     (6)    School and Child Care Center Setbacks. A School and Child Care
            Center setback application will satisfy the information requirements set
            forth in Rule 604.a.(3).

     (7)    Petition for Review. A complainant’s Petition for Review will satisfy the
            requirements of Rule 524.e.

     (8)    Comprehensive Area Plan. A Comprehensive Area Plan will satisfy the
            requirements of Rule 314. Only an Owner or Operator may file a
            Comprehensive Area Plan.

     (9)    Variances. An application for a variance will satisfy the requirements of
            Rule 502.

     (10)   Any person may seek relief or a ruling from the Commission on any other
            matter not described in Rules 503.g.(1)–(9) & (11)–(12). Rulemaking
            petitions are not relief or rulings covered by this Rule 503.g.(10) and may
            be filed by any person pursuant to Rule 529.b.




                                                                                        271
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (11)   Financial Assurance. An application for a Financial Assurance hearing
            will satisfy the requirements of Rules 218.b.(5).D, 218.i.(2), 434.d.(8),
            701.b, 702.b, 703.b.(1).A, 703.d.(2).C, 704.b, 706.b, 706.c.(1), 706.e,
            707.a, or 707.b. If the Commission initiates a Financial Assurance hearing
            on its own motion pursuant to Rule 503.a and 707.b, or the Director
            initiates a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rules 218.b.(5).D,
            434.d.(8).B.ii, 706.b, or 707.a.(2), it will be the responsibility of the
            Operator subject to the hearing to compile any information required by
            those Rules and submit it into the docket for the proceeding.

     (12)   Well or Location Closure. An application to require Plugging and
            Abandonment of a Well or closure of an Oil and Gas Location or Oil and
            Gas Facility will satisfy the requirements of Rule 211.

            A.    The Director may file an application to Plug and Abandon a Well or
                  close an Oil and Gas Location pursuant to Rule 211.

            B.    The Relevant Local Government or Surface Owner may file an
                  application to Plug and Abandon a Well or close an Oil and Gas
                  Location pursuant to Rule 211. Such application by a Relevant
                  Local Government or Surface Owner will include:

                  i.     A certification that the Relevant Local Government or
                         Surface Owner has conferred in good faith with the
                         Operator;

                  ii.    A certification that the Well has been a Low Producing Well
                         each year of the previous three years; and

                  iii.   Evidence demonstrating that the Well is:

                         aa.    A threat to public health, safety, welfare, the
                                environment, or wildlife resources; or

                         bb.    No longer Used or Useful.

     (13)   Class VI Development Plan. A Class VI Development Plan application
            will satisfy the requirements set forth in Rules 1405 and 1406. Only an
            Owner or Operator within the proposed Class VI Development Plan may
            file a Class VI Development Plan.

     (14)   Geologic Storage Units. A unitization application filed pursuant to § 34-
            60-141, C.R.S. Applications for Geologic Storage Units will satisfy the
            information requirements set forth in Rules 505 and 1427.

h.   Unless provided for in the Commission’s Rules, or the Commission otherwise
     orders, all matters submitted to the Commission for adjudication will
     automatically be assigned to an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer. An



                                                                                   272
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     assignment to an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will encompass all
     issues of fact and law concerning the matter unless the Commission specifies
     otherwise in a written order. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following will be
     considered only by the Commission and not a Hearing Officer or Administrative
     Law Judge:

     (1)    Approval of Comprehensive Area Plans filed pursuant to Rule 314;

     (2)    Applications seeking a hearing pursuant to Rules 604.a.(3) or 604.b.(4);

     (3)    Variance requests to the Commission filed pursuant to Rule 502.a;

     (4)    Rulemaking proceedings held pursuant to Rule 529;

     (5)    Financial Assurance hearings pursuant to Rules 218.b.(5).D, 218.i.(2),
            434.d.(8), 701.b, 702.b, 703.b.(1).A, 703.d.(2).C, 704.b, 706.b, 706.c.(1),
            706.e, 707.a, or 707.b; and

     (6)    Well or Location Closure hearings pursuant to Rule 211.

i.   The Commission, Director, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may
     require any additional information necessary to ensure an application is
     complete. The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may
     issue an order rejecting an application if the application is found to be without
     merit or is incomplete. The rejection of an application will be in writing and
     constitute a final agency order that is subject to judicial review.

j.   A party filing an application may amend its application at any time prior to notice
     being sent consistent with Rule 504. A material amendment is a change that
     substantially alters the requested relief of the original application, requires notice
     to additional persons, or as otherwise determined by the Commission,
     Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer. If the application requires a
     material amendment, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
     Officer may in its discretion dismiss the application.

k.   Upon the acceptance of an application:

     (1)    Commission Staff will assign the application a docket number; and

     (2)    The matter will be set for hearing, and notice of that hearing will be given
            pursuant to Rule 504.

l.   The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will grant the first
     request by an Applicant for a continuance of any uncontested application. The
     Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer has discretion to
     grant or deny subsequent requests for a continuance of an uncontested
     application.




                                                                                        273
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

m.      Commission Staff will evaluate all applications, which may include a
       recommendation on the merits of the application. Any such recommendation will
       be part of the administrative record to be considered by the Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer.

n.     Subsequent to the initiation of a proceeding, all pleadings filed by any party will
       reference the docket number assigned to such proceeding. Each pleading will
       include a certificate of service identifying the document served and filed with the
       Commission and that the pleading was served on all parties, pursuant to Rule
       522.

504.   NOTICE FOR HEARING

a.     General Notice Provisions.

       (1)    When any proceeding has been initiated, the Commission will require a
              copy of the application, together with a notice of such proceeding, to be
              provided to all persons specified in the relevant sections of Rules 504.b–f
              at least 60 days in advance of the noticed hearing date. Notice will be
              provided pursuant to the requirements of § 34-60-108(4), C.R.S., and will
              be drafted by the Secretary. A signed, electronic copy will be provided to
              the Applicant in sufficient time for delivery to those who require notice. The
              application and notice will be provided directly by the Applicant, using the
              Applicant’s return address. The Applicant is responsible for service and
              publication of required notices, including any related costs.

              A.     If the application is for an Oil and Gas Development Plan, the
                     Operator will comply with the notice provisions of Rule 303.e prior
                     to a hearing on the Oil and Gas Development Plan.

       (2)    No later than 30 days before the noticed hearing date, the Applicant will
              submit to the Secretary:

              A.     A certificate of service demonstrating that the Applicant served a
                     copy of the application and notice on all persons entitled to notice
                     pursuant to the Commission’s Rules. The certificate of service will
                     include a list of all persons who received a copy of the application
                     and notice, including identification of mailed notices returned to the
                     Applicant as undeliverable; and

              B.     A notarized affidavit providing assurance that the Applicant
                     published a copy of the notice in a newspaper of general circulation
                     in the City and County of Denver and a newspaper of general
                     circulation in the county where the land affected is situated, and the
                     date of publication for each newspaper used. The Applicant is not
                     required to submit a notarized proof of publication from the
                     newspapers, or copies of the publications, unless a concern with
                     publication is raised. Service of process by publication to unknown



                                                                                        274
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  addresses will occur through five weeks of publication ending at the
                  Rule 507 petition deadline, at least 30 days prior to the noticed
                  hearing date.

     (3)   The Secretary will give notice to any person who has filed a request to be
           placed on the Commission’s general email notification list. Notice by
           publication or notice provided pursuant to the Commission’s general email
           list does not confer interested party status on any person.

     (4)   Notice by publication or notice by electronic mail provided pursuant to this
           subsection does not confer Affected Person status on any person.

b.   Notice for Specific Applications.

     (1)   Applications for Oil and Gas Development Plans. Oil and Gas
           Development Plan applications will be served on all persons identified in
           Rules 303.d.(2) & 303.e.(1).

     (2)   Applications related to Drilling Units. For purposes of applications for
           drilling units, additional Wells within existing drilling units, or other
           applications for modifications of, or exceptions to, existing drilling unit
           orders but not including applications subject to Rule 504.b.(6), the
           application and notice will be served on the leasehold interest owners and
           any unleased mineral Owners within the proposed drilling unit or within the
           existing drilling unit to be affected by the applications. The persons
           identified in Rule 303.d.(2) will also receive notice of such an application.

     (3)   Applications for Involuntary Pooling. For purposes of applications for
           involuntary pooling orders made pursuant to § 34-60-116, C.R.S., the
           application and notice will be served on those persons who own any
           interest in the mineral estate, whether leased or unleased, of the tracts to
           be pooled, except Owners of an overriding royalty interest.

     (4)   Applications for Unitization. For purposes of applications for unitization
           made pursuant to § 34-60-118, C.R.S., the application and notice will be
           served on those persons who own any interest in the mineral estate
           underlying the tract or tracts to be unitized and the Owners within one-half
           mile of the tract or tracts to be unitized.

     (5)   Applications Changing Certain Well Completion Setbacks. For
           purposes of applications that change the ordered minimum Well
           completion setbacks for Drilling and Spacing Unit boundaries, the
           application and notice will be served on those Owners of Cornering and
           Contiguous Units or tracts who may be affected by such change, provided
           that when the Applicant owns any interest covering such tract, the person
           who owns the mineral estate underlying the tract covered by such lease
           will also be notified.




                                                                                    275
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)    Applications for Well Completion Exception. For purposes of
            applications for exceptions to Rules 401.a & b not granted pursuant to
            Rule 401.c, the application and notice will be served on the Owners of any
            Cornering and Contiguous Units or tracts upon which the Well completion
            location is encroaching, provided that when the Applicant owns any
            interest covering such tract or unit, the person who owns the mineral
            estate underlying the tract covered by such lease will also be notified.

     (7)    Applications for Variances. For purposes of requesting a variance
            pursuant to Rule 502, the application and notice will be served on the
            Director and the Relevant Local Government. Upon review of the
            application, the Director may request, and the Secretary has discretion to
            require, that notice be served on any necessary person based on the
            person’s potential legal interest or the potential impact of the variance. A
            necessary person may include but is not limited to a potentially impacted
            Governmental Agency, potentially impacted Surface Owner, or other
            potentially impacted person. For any variance requested as part of an
            application subject to Rules 504.b.(1)–(6), no additional notice will be
            required.

     (8)    All Other Applications. For any application not specified in Rules
            504.b.(1)–(7) or (9)–(11), the Secretary has discretion to determine who is
            entitled to receive the application and notice, based on legal interest and
            potential impact.

     (9)    Orders Related to Violations. With respect to the resolution of an NOAV,
            the application and notice will be provided to a relevant complainant (if
            any), to the alleged violator or alleged Responsible Party, or Operator, as
            applicable, and by publication pursuant to § 34-60-108(4), C.R.S.

     (10)   Financial Assurance Hearings.

            A.     If an Operator seeks a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to
                   Rules 434.d.(8).C, 701.b, 702.b, 703.b.(1).A, 703.d.(2).C, 706.e,
                   707.a.(1).E, or 707.b.(1), the Operator will serve the application and
                   notice on the Director. For a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant
                   to Rule 702.b, an Operator will also notify the Relevant Local
                   Government if the Financial Assurance Plan includes Wells within
                   its jurisdiction. If a Buying Operator seeks a Financial Assurance
                   Hearing pursuant to Rule 218.b.(5).D, the Buying Operator will also
                   serve the application and notice on the Selling Operator. If a Selling
                   Operator seeks a Financial Assurance Hearing pursuant to Rule
                   218.b.(5).D, the Selling Operator will also serve the application and
                   notice on the Buying Operator.




                                                                                     276
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.    If the Commission initiates a Financial Assurance hearing on its
                  own motion pursuant to Rule 503.a or 707.b, the Secretary will
                  provide notice to the Operator.

            C.    If the Director initiates a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to
                  Rules 218.b.(5).D, 218.i.(2), 434.d.(8).B.ii, 706.b, or 707.a.(2), the
                  Secretary will provide notice to the Operator. For hearings to call
                  Surety Bonds and Letters of Credit, or to foreclose on any liens or
                  other assets pursuant to Rules 218.i.(2) & 706.b.(2).B–C, the
                  Secretary will also provide notice to the third-party provider of the
                  Financial Assurance being called or foreclosed upon.

            D.    If a Surface Owner initiates a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant
                  to Rule 704.b, the Surface Owner will provide notice to the
                  Operator and the Director.

            E.    If a third-party provider of Financial Assurance initiates a Financial
                  Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 706.c.(1), the third-party
                  provider of Financial Assurance will provide notice to the Director.

     (11)   Well or Location Closure Hearings.

            A.    If the Director initiates a Well or Location Closure hearing pursuant
                  to Rule 211, the Secretary will provide notice to the Operator.

            B.    If the Relevant Local Government or Surface Owner initiates a Well
                  or Location Closure hearing pursuant to Rule 211, the Applicant will
                  provide notice to the Operator and the Director.

     (12)   Applications For Class VI Development Plans. Class VI Development
            Plan applications are subject to the notice requirements of Rule 1406.

     (13)   Applications For Geologic Storage Units. For purposes of applications
            for Geologic Storage Units made pursuant to § 34-60-141, C.R.S., the
            application and notice will be served on those persons who own any
            interest in the Geologic Storage Resources, whether leased or unleased,
            underlying the tract or tracts to be to be unitized.

c.   Notice to the Colorado State Board of Land Commissioners. The application
     and notice will also be given to the Colorado State Board of Land Commissioners
     for all applications where the Colorado State Board of Land Commissioners
     maintains a mineral ownership included in the application lands.

d.   Notice to Colorado Parks and Wildlife. The application and notice will also be
     given to CPW for all applications where CPW maintains a mineral ownership
     included in the application lands.




                                                                                      277
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

e.     Notice to Tribal Governments. The application and notice will also be given to
       the Southern Ute Indian Tribe or the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe for all applications
       involving minerals within the exterior boundary of either tribe’s reservation where
       both the surface and oil and gas estates are owned in fee by persons or entities
       other than the Tribe.

f.     Notice to the Bureau of Land Management. The application and notice will
       also be given to the Bureau of Land Management for all applications where the
       Bureau of Land Management maintains or manages a mineral or surface
       ownership included in the application lands.

505.   EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF AN APPLICATION

Applicants seeking relief under Rules 503.g.(1)–(3) & (8)–(9) will submit the documents
described in Rules 505.a–e below to the Commission with its application. The
Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will determine if additional
evidence is needed on a case-by-case basis. If the application lacks sufficient
information or evidence, the application may be continued at the Commission,
Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer’s discretion.

a.     Sworn written testimony, of relevant witnesses verifying land, geologic,
       engineering, public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife facts, or
       such other facts and testimony as may be required by the Commission’s Rules.
       Geologic and engineering written testimony are only required for applications
       made pursuant to Rules 503.g.(1)–(3) & (8), except for statutory pooling
       applications filed pursuant to Rule 503.g.(3), Such testimony will be accompanied
       by attachments or exhibits that adequately support and are specific to the relief
       requested in the application, along with resumes/curricula vitae for each witness.

b.     A statement, signed under oath, from a person having knowledge of the stated
       facts, attesting to the facts stated in the written testimony and any attachments or
       exhibits. The sworn statement need not be notarized, but it will contain language
       indicating that the signatory is affirming that submitted testimony and supporting
       documents are true and correct to the best of the signatory’s knowledge and
       belief and, if applicable, that they were prepared by the signatory or under the
       signatory’s supervision.

c.     A sworn statement that is a summary of the testimony to support the relief
       requested in the application, including a request to take administrative notice of
       repetitive general, technical, or scientific evidence, where appropriate.

d.     1 set of exhibits which will contain relevant highlights in bullet-point format on
       each exhibit.

e.     A draft proposed order, if requested by the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing
       Officer, with findings of fact and conclusions of law related to land, geology,
       engineering, public health, safety, welfare, the environment and wildlife, and
       other appropriate subjects to support the relief requested in the application.



                                                                                            278
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Geologic and engineering evidence are not required for a Rule 503.g.(3) order.
       Reference to testimony, exhibits, and previous Commission orders will be
       included as findings in the draft proposed order.

f.     No sworn testimony is required to support an application under Rules 503.g.(11),
       but the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may require
       an Applicant or other party to a Financial Assurance hearing to submit sworn
       testimony or other evidence as necessary during the course of proceedings.

g.     The Director or a Relevant Local Government filing an application to Plug and
       Abandon a Well or close an Oil and Gas Location pursuant to Rule 503.g.(12)
       need not submit sworn testimony with its hearing application but will submit all
       evidence necessary to support the basis for its application pursuant to Rule 211.

506.   INVOLUNTARY POOLING APPLICATIONS

a.     An application for involuntary pooling pursuant to § 34-60-116, C.R.S., may be
       filed at any time by an Owner who owns, or has secured the consent of the
       Owners of, more than 45% of the mineral interests to be pooled within a Drilling
       and Spacing Unit established by Commission order, prior to or after drilling of a
       Well, but no later than 90 days in advance of the date the matter is to be heard
       by the Commission, pursuant to Rule 510. Mineral interests that are owned by a
       person who cannot be located by the Applicant through reasonable diligence are
       not included for purposes of determining whether the 45% mineral interest
       threshold is met.

b.     The Commission will receive evidence that Owners were tendered a good faith,
       reasonable offer to lease or participate no less than 90 days prior to an
       involuntary pooling hearing. An application for involuntary pooling may be filed
       concurrently with the sending of a good faith, reasonable offer to lease or
       participate. While an application for involuntary pooling may be filed at any time
       prior to or after the drilling of a Well, any involuntary pooling order issued will be
       retroactive to the date the application is filed with the Commission unless the
       payor agrees otherwise.

       (1)    For purposes of this Rule 506, “good faith” means a state of mind
              consisting in observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair
              dealing in Oil and Gas Operations, and absence of intent to defraud or
              seek unconscionable advantage.

c.     Upon a showing by the Applicant that it has complied with the Commission’s
       Rules, the Commission may deem an Owner to be a nonconsenting Owner in the
       area to be pooled if:

       (1)    After receiving an offer to participate and given at least 60 days to review
              the offer, the Owner does not elect in writing to consent to participate in
              the cost of the Well concerning which the pooling order is sought. The
              offer to participate will include the following information, at a minimum:



                                                                                          279
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     The location and objective depth of the Well.

                  i.     Directional Wells will include the estimated Measured Depth
                         and True Vertical Depth (“MD”, “TVD”); and

                  ii.    Horizontal Wells will include the estimated Measured Depth,
                         True Vertical Depth, and Lateral Length (“MD”, “TVD”, and
                         “LL”);

           B.     The estimated drilling and completion cost in dollars of the Well
                  (both the total cost and the Owner’s share);

           C.     The estimated spud date for the Well or range of time within which
                  spudding is to occur; and

           D.     Contact information for an Operator representative who will be
                  available to answer Owner questions.

     (2)   An authority for expenditure prepared by the Operator and containing the
           information required above, together with additional information deemed
           appropriate by the Operator may satisfy these obligations.

     (3)   If, after receiving a good faith offer to lease and given at least 60 days to
           review the offer, the unleased Owner has failed to accept or refused a
           reasonable offer to lease. In determining whether a good faith, reasonable
           offer to lease has been tendered pursuant to § 34-60-116(7)(d), C.R.S.,
           the Commission will consider the lease terms listed below for the Drilling
           and Spacing Unit in the application and for all Cornering and Contiguous
           Units, and additional leases where necessary to obtain a representative
           sample of the lease market:

           A.     Date of lease and primary term or offer with acreage in lease;

           B.     Annual rental per acre;

           C.     Bonus payment or evidence of its non-availability;

           D.     Mineral interest royalty; and

           E.     Such other lease terms as may be relevant.

     (4)   For an offer to lease to be considered reasonable and have been made in
           good faith, the offer will be written in clear and neutral language and
           include information on which the offered price can be determined to be
           fair.

d.   A nonconsenting Owner will be subject to cost recovery pursuant to § 34-60-
     116(7)(b), C.R.S.




                                                                                      280
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

e.     All offers to lease or participate will include contact information for a
       representative of the Applicant to answer questions and the Commission’s
       brochure describing its pooling procedures and the Owner’s options related to
       pooling.

507.   CONTESTED HEARING APPLICATIONS

a.     A person who may be adversely affected or aggrieved by an application may
       submit a petition to the Commission as an Affected Person to participate formally
       as a party in an adjudicatory proceeding. The petition will set forth a brief and
       plain statement of the facts which entitle that person to be admitted and the
       matters that the person claim should be decided. The Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may admit any person or agency as
       a party to the proceeding for limited purposes.

       (1)   Federal agencies, state agencies, tribal governments, Relevant Local
             Governments, and special districts with legal authority over the application
             are Affected Persons.

       (2)   For purposes of an application filed pursuant to Rule 503.g.(1), Surface
             Owners and residents (including owners and tenants) of Building Units
             located within 2,000 feet of a proposed Working Pad Surface are Affected
             Persons.

       (3)   For all persons other than those listed in Rules 507.a.(1) & (2), the
             person’s petition will:

             A.     Identify an interest in the activity that is adversely affected by the
                    proposed activity;

             B.     Allege such interest could be an injury-in-fact if the application is
                    granted; and

             C.     Demonstrate that the injury alleged is not common to members of
                    the general public.

       (4)   When determining if a person is an Affected Person all relevant factors will
             be considered, including, but not limited to, the following:

             A.     Whether the interest claimed is one protected or adversely affected
                    by the application;

             B.     Whether a reasonable relationship exists between the interest
                    claimed and the activity regulated;

             C.     Likely impacts and magnitude of impacts of the regulated activity on
                    the health, safety, welfare, or use of property of the person;




                                                                                         281
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            D.      Likely impacts of the regulated activity on the impacted natural
                    resources or wildlife used or enjoyed by the person; or

            E.      For a Governmental Agency not identified in Rule 507.a.(1), its
                    legal authority over or interest in the issues relevant to the
                    application.

b.   For purposes of an application filed pursuant to Rule 503.g.(2), only a mineral
     Owner within the unit, Relevant Local Government, CDPHE, or CPW may file a
     petition.

c.   A petition filed by the Relevant Local Government, CDPHE, or CPW will be
     granted.

d.   The petition will be filed with the Commission and served on the Applicant’s
     counsel, if the Applicant is represented by counsel, at least 30 days before the
     hearing. If the Applicant is not represented by counsel, service will be made on
     the Applicant.

e.   Pursuant to Rule 510.l, the filing deadline for the filing of petitions may be
     extended for good cause upon any continuance of a hearing.

f.   All petitions will include:

     (1)    The application docket number;

     (2)    A general statement of the factual or legal basis for the petition based on
            the application;

     (3)    A statement and support for why the person filing the petition meets the
            definition of an Affected Person;

     (4)    A statement of the relief requested;

     (5)    A written description of the case the Affected Person plans to present to
            the Commission including a list of proposed witnesses;

     (6)    A time estimate to hear the petition;

     (7)    A certificate of service attesting that the pleading has been served on the
            Applicant and any other party in the proceeding; and

     (8)    If applicable, the name, mailing address, phone number, and email
            address of the petitioner’s legal counsel or the petitioner themselves if not
            represented by legal counsel.

g.   The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may require any
     additional information necessary pursuant to the Commission’s Rules to ensure




                                                                                       282
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       the petition is complete. The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
       Officer has the discretion to summarily dismiss without prejudice any petition that
       does not meet the informational requirements set forth in this Rule.

508.   UNCONTESTED HEARING APPLICATIONS

a.     If a matter is uncontested, the Applicant may request from the Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer approval without a hearing based
       on an Administrative Law Judge’s or Hearing Officer’s review of the merits of the
       verified application and the supporting exhibits. If the request to approve the
       application without hearing is not approved, the applicant may request an
       administrative hearing before an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer on
       the application. For purposes of this Rule 508, an uncontested matter will mean
       any application that is not subject to a petition objecting to the relief requested in
       the application and additionally will include matters in which all interested parties
       have consented in writing to the granting of the application without a hearing.

b.     Uncontested applications recommended for approval by an Administrative Law
       Judge or Hearing Officer may be of special interest to the Commission and may
       be recommended by the Director for presentation to the Commission.

509.   PREHEARING PROCEDURES FOR CONTESTED APPLICATIONS

a.     The Commission encourages the use of prehearing conferences between parties
       to a contested matter in order to facilitate settlement, narrow the issues, identify
       any stipulated facts, resolve any other pertinent issues, and reduce the hearing
       time. A prehearing conference will be conducted at the direction of the
       Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer upon receipt of a
       petition, an enforcement matter, or upon the request of the Applicant or any
       person who has filed a petition. For matters in which staff is a party or a staff
       analysis has been prepared, the Director will participate in the prehearing
       conference to advise the parties of the content of staff’s analysis. The prehearing
       conference will be conducted under the following general guidelines.

b.     The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will enter a case
       management order that establishes:

       (1)    The hearing schedule;

       (2)    The filing deadlines;

       (3)    Whether discovery is permitted; and

       (4)    Any other procedural matters.

c.     An Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will preside over any prehearing
       conference and rule on preliminary matters.




                                                                                          283
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   The Secretary, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will notify the
     Applicant and any person who has filed a petition of the prehearing conference,
     and will direct the attorneys for the parties, and parties who are not represented
     by an attorney, to appear in order to expedite the hearing, settle issues, or both.

e.   All parties will be prepared to discuss all procedural and substantive issues and
     will be authorized to make binding commitments.

f.   Preparation should include advance study of all materials filed and, if discovery is
     permitted pursuant to Rule 509.b.(3), such materials obtained through discovery.

g.   Failure of a party to attend any hearing other than a rulemaking hearing, after
     being notified of the date, time, and place, will be a waiver of any objection and
     will be deemed to be a concurrence to any agreement reached, or to any order or
     ruling made at the hearing, including the entry of a default judgment or the
     dismissal of a petition.

h.   A prehearing statement may be required of any party.

i.   At any prehearing conference, the following matters may be considered:

     (1)    Offers of settlement or designation of issues;

     (2)    Simplification of and establishment of a list or summary of the issues;

     (3)    Bifurcation of issues for hearing purposes;

     (4)    Admissions as to, or stipulations of facts not remaining in dispute or the
            authenticity of documents;

     (5)    Limitation of the number of fact and expert witnesses;

     (6)    If a party seeks additional discovery beyond what was permitted by Rule
            509.b.(3), a limitation on methods and extent of discovery and a discovery
            schedule;

     (7)    Disposition of procedural motions; and

     (8)    Other matters raised by the parties, the Commission, Administrative Law
            Judge, or Hearing Officer.

j.   At any prehearing conference, the following information may be required:

     (1)    An exchange and acceptance of service of exhibits proposed to be offered
            in evidence, and establishment of a list of exhibits to be offered;

     (2)    Establishment of a list of witnesses to be called and anticipated testimony
            times; and




                                                                                      284
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)    A timetable for the completion of discovery, if discovery is allowed.

k.     The Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will reduce to writing any
       agreement reached or orders issued at a prehearing conference. The
       Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer may require parties to submit
       proposed findings or orders.

l.     It is the intent of this Rule 509 that a prehearing order will be binding upon the
       participating parties.

m.     Subsequent to the prehearing conference and prior to the hearing on a contested
       matter, the parties may be asked to each prepare and submit to the
       Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer a recommended order to consider
       for adoption at the time of hearing.

510.   HEARINGS

a.     The Applicant, as the proponent of the order, has the burden of proof. Any party
       to the proceeding has the right to present its case or defense, including any
       affirmative defenses, by oral and documentary evidence, submit rebuttal
       evidence, and to conduct cross examination as the Commission, Administrative
       Law Judge, or Hearing Officer determines is required for the full and true
       disclosure of the facts.

b.     No application may be heard until the Applicant has complied with all notice,
       evidentiary, and other application requirements set forth in the Commission’s
       Rules.

c.     A case management order, issued by the Commission, Administrative Law
       Judge, or Hearing Officer, will govern all hearings, including rulemaking hearings.

d.     Administrative Hearings in Uncontested Applications.

       (1)    As to applications where there has been no petition filed with the
              Commission pursuant to Rule 507, and where the Administrative Law
              Judge or Hearing Officer has not issued a written recommended order
              approving the application, the application may be heard administratively.
              The date and time of the administrative hearing will be scheduled for the
              mutual convenience of the Applicant and the Administrative Law Judge or
              Hearing Officer. The administrative hearing may be conducted prior to the
              date a petition filed pursuant to Rule 507.d is filed, but no recommended
              order will issue until the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer has
              fully considered any timely and properly filed petition.

       (2)    An Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer may hear the application
              at the administrative hearing. Administrative hearings will proceed
              informally in a meeting format. The Applicant may present its case using
              exhibits and witnesses. All witnesses will be sworn. At the conclusion of



                                                                                        285
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           the administrative hearing, the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing
           Officer will make a decision concerning approval or denial of the
           application and so inform the Applicant. The Administrative Law Judge or
           Hearing Officer will put such decision in a written report to the Commission
           containing findings of fact, conclusions of law, if any, and a recommended
           order. If the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer’s recommended
           order is a denial or qualified approval of the application, the Applicant will
           be entitled to file an exception.

e.   Hearings in Contested Applications. Every party will have the right to present
     its case at hearing by oral and documentary evidence. A case management
     order, issued by the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer,
     will govern the hearing of a contested application.

f.   Order Finding Violation Hearing.

     (1)   An OFV hearing will be held before the Commission, Administrative Law
           Judge, or Hearing Officer when:

           A.     The enforcement matter cannot be resolved through an
                  Administrative Order by Consent (“AOC”); and

           B.     For any enforcement actions governed by Rule 525.d.(1).

     (2)   OFV hearings for enforcement actions not governed by Rule 525.d.(1) are
           commenced by service of the NOAV and Notice and Application for
           Hearing. The Director is not required to file a separate application for an
           OFV hearing. An OFV hearing will commence on the date stated in the
           Notice and Application for Hearing, unless continued by the Commission,
           Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer.

     (3)   The Commission may commence an OFV hearing on its own motion, with
           notice pursuant to Rule 504, if it believes the Director has failed to enforce
           a provision of the Act, or a Commission Rule, order, or permit.

     (4)   OFV hearings are de novo proceedings.

g.   Hearing on Complainant’s Petition for Review.

     (1)   The Commission’s hearing on a complainant’s Petition for Review
           pursuant to Rule 524.c will be limited to evidence and information entered
           into the record prior to the Director’s contested decision, and any evidence
           or information received and considered by the Director following an order
           from the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer. No
           party to the Petition for Review hearing may present evidence or
           information that was not previously presented to the Director.




                                                                                     286
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   It is the complainant’s burden to show the Director’s action was clearly
           erroneous.

           A.     If the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer
                  finds that the Director’s action was clearly erroneous, they may
                  remand the matter to the Director for further proceedings, or order
                  other such relief deemed just and reasonable.

           B.     If the complainant fails to meet its burden, the Commission,
                  Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will deny the Petition
                  for Review, and act on the final proposed AOC pursuant to Rule
                  523.d.(1).C.

h.   Rulemaking Hearings. All rulemaking proceedings will be held pursuant to Rule
     529.

i.   Witnesses. Any witness at a hearing will take an oath or affirmation before
     testifying. After a witness has testified, the Applicant, the petitioner, and any
     Commissioner may cross-examine that witness in the order established by the
     chairperson of the Commission. If the hearing is before an Administrative Law
     Judge or Hearing Officer, the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer may
     ask questions during or after witness testimony, or cross-examine the witness.

j.   Limitations of Testimony.

     (1)   Testimony and cross-examination by a petitioner will be limited to those
           issues that reasonably relate to the interests that the petitioner seeks to
           protect, and which may be adversely affected by an order of the
           Commission, as determined by the Commission, Administrative Law
           Judge, or Hearing Officer.

     (2)   Where two or more petitioners have substantially similar interests and
           positions, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer
           may limit cross-examination or argument on motions and objections to
           fewer than all petitioners. The Commission may also limit testimony to
           avoid undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative
           evidence.

k.   Closing of Record. At the conclusion of closing statements, the record will be
     closed to the presentation of any further evidence, testimony, or statements,
     except as such may occur in response to questions from the Commission,
     Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer.

l.   The Commission, Secretary, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may
     for good cause cancel, stay, or continue any hearing to another date. Upon
     continuance of a hearing, the deadline for filing a petition to contest an
     application pursuant to Rule 507, or any other required deadline under the




                                                                                      287
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Commission’s Rules, maybe extended for good cause by the Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer.

m.     When a Commission hearing is scheduled for multiple days the Secretary may
       estimate the time and date that a given matter may be heard by the Commission.
       The Commission may, in its discretion, change the proposed hearing docket,
       including the time or date of any scheduled hearing. It will be the responsibility of
       the participating parties and attorneys to be present when the Commission hears
       the matter.

511.   LOCAL PUBLIC HEARING

a.     Any person may request the Commission hold a local public hearing to gather
       feedback from the local community, including elected officials and Local
       Government officials, on a proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan or
       Comprehensive Area Plan. The Commission will decide whether to grant all
       requests for a Local Public Hearing. The Commission has discretion to decline a
       request for a Local Public Hearing, or in the alternative hold the local public
       hearing at the Commission’s offices. The Commission may choose to hold a
       Local Public Hearing on its own motion. The Commission also has the discretion
       to designate a single Commissioner, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
       Officer to preside at the local public hearing.

b.     A request for a local public hearing will be in writing, and will include the docket
       number for the relevant plan. The request for a local public hearing will state with
       reasonable specificity the reasons why the Commission should hold a local
       public hearing.

c.     The conduct of a local public hearing will be informal, and participants will not be
       required to be sworn in prior to making a statement, represented by attorneys, or
       subjected to cross-examination.

d.     The Applicant may participate in the local public hearing and present information
       related to the application.

e.     The Director will create a record of the local public hearing by video recording,
       audio recording, or court reporter. Such record will be available to all
       Commissioners for review prior to the hearing on the Plan application.

f.     Issues raised in a local public hearing may include any topic relevant to the
       proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan or Comprehensive Area Plan.

512.   PUBLIC COMMENT

a.     The Commission may accept oral or written comments from the public about any
       matter during a time specified for general public comment by the Commission.




                                                                                        288
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.      If the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer receives public
       comments concerning an adjudicatory proceeding to be heard, the public
       comments will be included in the administrative record for the adjudicatory
       proceeding.

c.     Parties to a proceeding may not provide public comment in that proceeding; they
       are not considered part of the public for comment purposes.

513.   COMMISSION MEMBERS REQUIRED FOR HEARINGS AND/OR DECISIONS

A majority of the voting Commissioners constitutes a quorum and is required for the
transaction of business. Testimony may be taken and oath or affirmation administered
by any member of the Commission, or by counsel to the Commission if the Commission
Chair so delegates.

514.   STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

a.     The purpose of this Rule 514 is to ensure that the Commission's decisions are
       free from personal bias and that its decision-making processes are consistent
       with the concept of fundamental fairness. The provisions of this Rule 514 are in
       addition to the requirements for Commission members set forth in § 24-18-101 et
       seq., C.R.S. This Rule 514 should be construed and applied to further the
       objectives of fair and impartial decision-making. To achieve these standards,
       Commissioners, Administrative Law Judges, and Hearing Officers should:

       (1)    Discharge their responsibilities with high integrity;

       (2)    Respect and comply with the law. Their conduct, at all times, should
              promote public confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the
              Commission; and

       (3)    Not lend the prestige of the office to advance their own private interests, or
              the private interests of others, nor should they convey, or permit others to
              convey, the impression that special influence can be brought to bear on
              them.

b.     Conflicts of Interest. A conflict of interest exists in circumstances where a
       Commissioner, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer has a personal or
       financial interest that prejudices that person’s ability to participate objectively in
       an official act.

       (1)    A Commissioner, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will
              disclose the basis for a potential conflict of interest to the Commission and
              others in attendance at the hearing before any discussion begins or as
              soon thereafter as the conflict is perceived. A conflict of interest may also
              be raised by other Commissioners, the Applicant, any petitioner, any
              parties to the proceeding, or any member of the public.




                                                                                           289
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)   In response to an assertion of a conflict of interest, a Commissioner may
             withdraw or the Director may designate an alternate Administrative Law
             Judge or Hearing Officer. If the Commissioner does not agree to withdraw,
             the other Commissioners will vote on whether a conflict of interest exists.
             Such vote will be binding on the Commissioner with the conflict.

       (3)   In determining whether there is a conflict of interest that warrants
             withdrawal, the Commission members, Administrative Law Judge, or
             Hearing Officer will take the following into consideration:

             A.     Whether the official act will have a direct economic benefit on a
                    business or other undertaking in which the Commissioner,
                    Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer has a direct or
                    substantial financial interest;

             B.     Whether the potential conflict will result in the Commissioner,
                    Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer not being capable of
                    judging a particular controversy fairly on the basis of its own
                    circumstances; and

             C.     Whether the potential conflict will result in the Commissioner,
                    Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer having an unalterably
                    closed mind on matters critical to the disposition of the proceeding.

c.     Discharge of Duties. In the performance of its official duties, the Commission,
       Administrative Law Judge, and Hearing Officer will apply the following standards:

       (1)   To be faithful to and constantly strive to improve its competence in
             statutory and regulatory principles, and to be unswayed by partisan
             interests, public clamor, or fear of criticism;

       (2)   To maintain order and decorum in the proceedings before it;

       (3)   To be patient, dignified, and courteous, and to require similar conduct of
             attorneys, staff, and others subject to its direction and control;

       (4)   To afford to every person who is legally interested in a proceeding full right
             to be heard according to law; and

       (5)   To diligently discharge its administrative responsibilities, maintain
             professional confidence in Commission administration, and facilitate the
             performance of the administrative responsibilities of other staff officials.

515.   REPRESENTATION AT ADMINISTRATIVE AND COMMISSION HEARINGS

a.     Natural persons may appear on their own behalf and represent themselves at
       hearings before the Commission. Participants who are not represented by legal
       counsel are subject to the Commission’s Rules.



                                                                                        290
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.     Persons allowed to make oral or written statements pursuant to Rule 512 may do
       so, on their own behalf or on behalf of an organization or entity they are duly
       authorized to represent, without counsel.

c.     Except as provided in Rules 515 a, b, & d, representation at hearings before the
       Commission will be by attorneys licensed to practice law in the State of Colorado.
       Any attorney duly admitted to practice law in a court of record of any state or
       territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, but not admitted to
       practice in Colorado, who appears at a hearing before the Commission may,
       upon motion, be admitted for the purpose of that hearing only, if that attorney has
       associated for purposes of that hearing with any attorney who:

       (1)    Is admitted to practice law in Colorado; and

       (2)    Is a resident of Colorado; or

       (3)    Maintains a law office within Colorado.

d.     The Commission will allow representation by a corporate officer or director of a
       community organization, a closely held entity, a citizens’ group, or if a limited
       liability corporation, the member or manager in the following circumstances:

       (1)    Rulemakings;

       (2)    Local public hearings; or

       (3)    When an individual is appearing on behalf of a closely held corporation
              pursuant to § 13-1-127, C.R.S.

e.     Unless a non-attorney is appearing pursuant to Rules 515.a, b, or d, or the
       Director is participating pursuant to Rules 510.f or g, a non-attorney will not be
       permitted to examine or cross-examine witnesses, make objections or resist
       objections to the introduction of testimony, or make legal arguments.

516.   SUBPOENAS

The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may issue subpoenas
requiring attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and other
instruments to the same extent and in the same manner and pursuant to the Colorado
Rules of Civil Procedure. A party seeking a subpoena will submit the form of the
subpoena for execution. Upon execution, the party requesting the subpoena has the
responsibility to serve the subpoena pursuant to the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.

517. APPLICABILITY OF COLORADO COURT RULES AND ADMINISTRATIVE
NOTICE

a.     The Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure apply to Commission proceedings unless
       they are inconsistent with the Commission’s Rules or the Act, or as the



                                                                                        291
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer may otherwise direct on the record
     during prehearing proceedings or by written order.

b.   In general, the Colorado Rules of Evidence applicable before a trial court without
     a jury will be applicable in matters before the Commission, providing that such
     rules may be relaxed, where, by so doing, the ends of justice will be better
     served.

     (1)   To promote uniformity in the admission of evidence, the Commission,
           Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer, to the extent practical, will
           observe and conform to the Colorado Rules of Evidence applicable in civil
           non-jury cases in the district courts of Colorado.

     (2)   When necessary to ascertain facts affecting substantial rights of the
           parties to a proceeding, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or
           Hearing Officer may receive and consider evidence not admissible under
           the Rules of Evidence, if the evidence possesses probative value
           commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent persons in the conduct of
           their affairs.

     (3)   Informality in any proceeding or in the manner of taking testimony will not
           invalidate any Commission order, decision, Rule, or regulation.

c.   Administrative Notice. The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
     Officer may take administrative notice of:

     (1)   Constitutions and statutes of any state, tribe, and of the United States;

     (2)   Rules, regulations, official reports, decisions, and orders of local, state,
           and federal administrative agencies;

     (3)   Decisions and orders of federal and state courts;

     (4)   Commission and Commission Staff reports, data, files, documents, and
           records;

     (5)   Matters of common knowledge and undisputed technical or scientific fact;

     (6)   Matters that may be judicially noticed by a Colorado district court in a civil
           case; and

     (7)   Matters within the expertise of the Commission or Commission Staff.

d.   Upon receipt of an objection to any discovery issued pursuant to Rule 509.b.(3),
     the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer has the discretion
     to limit the scope of the discovery sought to matters that are within the scope of
     the Commission's jurisdiction under the Act, or otherwise.




                                                                                          292
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

518.   ELECTRONIC FILING

a.     All applications, pleadings, petitions, or documents filed pursuant to the
       Commission’s Rules will be submitted electronically in a manner determined by
       the Director.

b.     All applications, pleadings, petitions, or documents filed pursuant to the
       Commission’s Rules will be accompanied by a docket fee established by the
       Commission (see Appendix III). No docket fees will be assessed on filings made
       by Commission Staff or Governmental Agencies. The docket fee will be refunded
       if a petition is denied. In cases of hardship, the Commission or Director may, in
       its discretion waive the docket fee.

519.   CONSENT AGENDA

a.     Regular hearings will be held before the Commission on such days as may be
       set by the Commission.

b.     The Secretary may place on the consent agenda those uncontested matters
       recommended by an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer for approval if
       a recommended order has not become the final agency action pursuant to Rule
       520.b.

       (1)   All matters on the consent agenda may be presented individually or in
             groups. All matters within a group will be voted on together, without
             deliberation and without the necessity of reading into the record the
             individual items. However, any Commissioner may request clarification
             from the Director or from the attorney or other representative of the
             Applicant for any matter on the consent agenda.

       (2)   Any Commissioner may remove a matter from the consent agenda prior to
             voting thereon.

       (3)   Any matter removed from the consent agenda will be heard at the end of
             the remaining agenda, if practicable and agreeable to the Applicant, or, if
             not, scheduled for hearing at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
             Commission.

520.   INTERIM DECISIONS, RECOMMENDED ORDERS AND EXCEPTIONS

a.     Interim Decisions.

       (1)   Interim decisions are issued after an application is set for hearing, but are
             not recommended orders that may become a final decision of the
             Commission. A Hearing Officer or Administrative Law Judge’s decision on
             a motion to dismiss is an interim decision, unless an application is
             dismissed in part or in its entirety.




                                                                                      293
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)    Interim decisions will not be subject to exceptions. However, any
            aggrieved party or rulemaking participant may challenge the matters
            determined in an interim decision in exceptions to a recommended order.

     (3)    Nothing in this Rule 520.a prohibits a motion for clarification of an interim
            decision set forth in an interim decision.

b.   Recommended Orders. After due consideration of written statements, oral
     statements, the testimony, the evidence, and the arguments presented at
     hearing, the Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will make a written
     recommended order based upon evidence in the record, consistent with the Act
     and any Commission Rule, permit, or order made pursuant thereto. The
     Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will promptly transmit electronically
     to the Commission and the parties the record and exhibits of the proceeding and
     a written recommended order. The recommended order becomes a final agency
     action if no exceptions are filed within 20 days after service upon the parties and
     the Commission does not stay the recommended order on its own motion.

c.   Exceptions. Pursuant to § 34-60-108(9), C.R.S., a recommended order
     becomes the Commission’s final order unless, within 20 days or such additional
     time as the Commission may allow, any party or person whose petition to
     participate in the matter was denied files exceptions to the recommended order
     or the Commission orders the recommended order to be stayed. A stay of a
     recommended order does not automatically extend the period for filing
     exceptions or a motion for an extension of time to file exceptions. If exceptions
     are timely filed, the recommended order is stayed until the Commission rules
     upon them. Parties may file responses to exceptions within 14 days following
     service of the exceptions.

     (1)    The Commission will conduct a review upon the same record before the
            Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer, and a de novo review of the
            law.

     (2)    The Commission may, upon its own motion or upon the motion of a party,
            order oral argument regarding exceptions. The Secretary will set the time
            allotted for argument. The Commission may terminate argument
            whenever, in its judgment, further argument is unnecessary. The party
            filing exceptions is entitled to open and conclude the argument.
            Arguments will be limited to issues raised in the exceptions, unless the
            Commission orders otherwise.

d.   An Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer’s recommended order will be an
     initial decision for purposes of filing an exception pursuant to the state
     Administrative Procedure Act.




                                                                                       294
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

521.   COMMISSION FINDINGS AND ORDER

a.     After due consideration of written statements, oral statements, the testimony, and
       the arguments presented at hearing before the Commission, the Commission will
       make its findings and written order, based upon evidence in the record and, as
       appropriate, consistent with the Act and any Commission Rule, permit, or order
       made pursuant thereto.

b.     Commission orders will be entered within 30 days after the hearing pursuant to §
       34-60-108(7), C.R.S. Orders will be final upon Commission approval and
       effective for purposes of judicial review on the date of electronic delivery or
       mailing.

522.   SERVICE

a.     A person filing any application, petition, pleading, or other document will serve a
       copy, including all supporting attachments or exhibits, on every other party in the
       docketed matter. Service of all pleadings or other documents will be
       accomplished electronically in a manner determined by the Director.

b.     Enforcement Documents. The Director will serve an NOAV, a Notice of Hearing
       of an enforcement action, or an OFV on the Operator or the Operator's
       Designated Agent and other parties as necessary by personal delivery or by
       certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address the Operator has on file
       with the Commission pursuant to Rule 205. All other documents in enforcement
       cases will be served electronically in a manner determined by the Director.

c.     Complainant. Notice to a complainant may be served by confirmed electronic
       mail (unless previously objected to by a party) or by first class mail to the address
       provided. Where notice is sent electronically, notice is perfected when sent.
       Where notice is sent by first class mail, notice is perfected 5 days after mailing.

d.     Petitions for Review. A Petition for Review by a complainant will be served on
       the Operator or the Operator’s Designated Agent to the address on file with the
       Commission electronically in a manner as determined by the Director. If the
       complainant is unable to serve the Petition for Review electronically, the
       complainant will serve it by certified mail, return receipt requested. A complainant
       will serve its Petition for Review on the Operator within 7 days following filing of
       the petition. All other documents in a Petition for Review proceeding will be
       served on all parties electronically (unless previously objected to by a party).

e.     Cease and Desist Orders. In Emergency Situations, a Cease and Desist Order
       may be served electronically in a manner as determined by the Director, followed
       by a copy served on the Operator or the Operator's Designated Agent by
       personal delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address the
       Operator has on file with the Commission pursuant to Rule 205.




                                                                                        295
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.     Service by Certified Mail. When service is accomplished through certified mail it
       will be perfected at the earliest of:

       (1)    The date of receipt;

       (2)    The date shown on the return receipt; or

       (3)    5 days after mailing.

g.     Service by First Class Mail. If a party or person lacks access to file or receive
       documents electronically in a manner as determined by the Director, service will
       be made by first class mail. When service is accomplished through first class
       mail, it is perfected 5 days after mailing. Service by first class mail may not be
       substituted for service by certified mail when service by certified mail is required
       by Commission Rule or the Act.

523.   ENFORCEMENT

a.     Identification of Alleged Violations. If, on the Director's own initiative or based
       on a complaint, reasonable cause exists to believe that a violation of the Act or
       any Commission Rule, order, or permit has occurred, the Director will require the
       Operator to remedy the violation and may commence an enforcement action by
       issuing an NOAV. Reasonable cause requires, at least, evidence of the alleged
       violation, as verified by the Director.

b.     Resolution of Alleged Violations without Penalties.

       (1)    When the Director has reasonable cause to believe a violation of the Act
              or any Commission Rule, order, or permit has occurred, the Director may
              resolve the alleged violation without seeking a penalty if all of the following
              apply:

              A.     The Commission Rule allegedly violated is not a Class 3 rule and
                     the degree of actual or threatened impact is minor or moderate
                     pursuant to the Commission’s Penalty Schedule, Rule 525.c.(1);

              B.     The Operator has not received a previous warning letter or
                     corrective action required inspection report regarding the same
                     violation;

              C.     The Director determines the alleged violation can be corrected
                     without undue delay; and

              D.     The Operator timely performs all corrective actions required by the
                     Director and takes any other actions necessary to promptly return
                     to compliance.




                                                                                         296
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   The Director retains discretion to seek penalties for any violation of the
           Act, or a Commission Rule, order, or permit, even if all of the factors in
           Rule 523.b.(1) apply.

c.   Enforcement Actions Seeking Penalties for Alleged Violations. When the
     Director determines that Rule 523.b.(1) does not apply or otherwise elects to
     seek penalties for an alleged violation, the Director will commence an
     enforcement action by issuing an NOAV.

     (1)   Content of an NOAV. An NOAV will identify the provisions of the Act or
           Commission’s Rules, orders, or permits allegedly violated, and will contain
           a short and plain statement of the facts alleged to constitute each alleged
           violation. The NOAV may propose appropriate corrective action and an
           abatement schedule required by the Director to correct the alleged
           violation.

     (2)   Answer. An answer to an NOAV will be filed within 28 days of the
           Operator’s receipt of an NOAV, unless an exception or extension is
           granted by the Director. An answer will, at a minimum, discuss the
           allegations contained in the NOAV, responding to each; identify corrective
           actions taken in response to the NOAV, if any; and identify facts known to
           the Operator at the time that are relevant to the Operator’s response to the
           alleged violations. If the Operator fails to file an answer within 28 days, the
           Director may request the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or
           Hearing Officer enter a default judgment.

     (3)   Procedural Matters.

           A.     Service of an NOAV constitutes commencement of an enforcement
                  action or other proceeding for purposes of § 34-60-115, C.R.S.

           B.     Issuance of an NOAV does not constitute final agency action for
                  purposes of judicial review.

           C.     A monetary penalty for a violation may only be imposed by
                  Commission order.

d.   Resolution of Enforcement Actions.

     (1)   Administrative Order by Consent. Except as provided in Rule 523.d.(2),
           an enforcement action is resolved upon the Commission’s entry of an
           order approving an agreement between the Operator and the Director or
           by a recommended order becoming a final decision of the Commission.

           A.     A proposed agreement to resolve an enforcement action will be
                  memorialized in an AOC executed by the Director and the
                  Operator.




                                                                                        297
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     A complainant who has filed a written complaint on a Form 18,
                  Complaint Report, will be informed of the terms of a draft proposed
                  AOC resolving alleged violations arising directly out of their written
                  complaint and will be given 14 days to comment on the draft
                  settlement terms before the AOC is finalized and presented to an
                  Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer for a recommended
                  order approving it. The Director will provide a copy of the final
                  proposed AOC to the complainant. A complainant who objects to
                  the final proposed AOC may file a Petition for Review pursuant to
                  Rule 524.c.

           C.     AOCs that are not subject to a pending complainant’s Petition for
                  Review will be reviewed by an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing
                  Officer to issue a recommended order. A recommended order on
                  an AOC becomes the decision of the Commission within 20 days
                  after service upon the parties, unless the Commission stays the
                  recommended order on the AOC within that time.

           D.     If the Commission stays the recommended order on the AOC, the
                  Commission may:

                  i.     Remand the matter to the Director for further proceedings; or

                  ii.    Direct the parties to appear before the Commission for
                         hearing.

     (2)   Orders Finding Violation.

           A.     An enforcement action may not be resolved by the Director and will
                  be heard by an Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer, unless
                  the Commission directs otherwise, when:

                  i.     The Director alleges an Operator has engaged in conduct
                         enumerated in Rule 525.d.(1); or

                  ii.    The Commission sets an OFV hearing pursuant to Rule
                         510.f.(3).

e.   Rescinding an NOAV. If, after issuance of an NOAV the Director no longer has
     reasonable cause to believe a violation of the Act, or of any Commission Rule,
     order, or permit occurred, the Director will rescind the NOAV in writing.

f.   Failure to Comply with Commission Orders. An Operator’s failure to diligently
     implement corrective action pursuant to an AOC, OFV, or other Commission
     order constitutes an independent violation that may result in an NOAV, additional
     penalties, or corrective action requirements.




                                                                                     298
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

524.   COMPLAINANT ENFORCEMENT MATTERS

a.     Any person may make a complaint using the Form 18 to the Director alleging that
       a violation of the Act or any Commission Rule, order, or permit has occurred. The
       Director will investigate all complaints made pursuant to this Rule to the extent
       the Director believes sufficient grounds exist to warrant an investigation.

b.     The Director will notify the complainant of whether an investigation will be
       conducted.

       (1)    If the Director determines no violation occurred, the Director will notify the
              Operator and the complainant, and no further action will be taken.

       (2)    If the Director determines a violation may have occurred, the Director may
              initiate and resolve the enforcement action pursuant to Rule 523.

       (3)    If a complaint specifically results in the issuance of an NOAV, a
              complainant who has filed a written complaint on a Form 18 will be given
              14 days to comment on the terms of a draft proposed settlement of the
              NOAV, if any, before the AOC is signed and presented to an
              Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer for a recommended order
              approving it.

c.     A complainant who has filed a written complaint on a Form 18 may file a Petition
       for Review requesting the Commission hear the complainant’s objections to:

       (1)    The Director’s decision not to issue an NOAV for an alleged violation
              specifically identified in the written complaint; or

       (2)    The settlement terms of a final proposed AOC that settles an alleged
              violation arising directly from the Form 18.

d.     Complainants will file a Petition for Review application with the Commission
       within 28 days of service of the Director’s decision.

e.     A Petition for Review will set forth in reasonable detail the legal arguments and
       facts the complainant contends demonstrate that the Director’s decision was
       clearly erroneous.

       (1)    A Petition for Review may include a request for a continuance of the
              enforcement hearing on the AOC. Such a request will be based on actual,
              compelling evidence, which has been gathered by the complainant after
              the Director’s contested decision, and will explain why the Director should
              further investigate the circumstances surrounding the alleged violation.
              The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will
              determine whether a continuance is warranted, and whether to direct Staff
              to conduct additional investigation or receive and consider additional
              information.



                                                                                         299
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)   An Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer will issue a case
             management order that establishes the deadlines for filing responses to
             the Petition for Review.

       (3)   Discovery will not be permitted prior to the Petition for Review hearing.

f.     Unless otherwise continued, a Petition for Review will be heard within 42 days
       following filing of the Petition for Review.

525.   ASSESSING PENALTIES IN ENFORCEMENT MATTERS

a.     General. If the Commission finds that an Operator has violated the Act or a
       Commission Rule, order, or permit, the Commission may issue an order
       imposing a penalty. Penalties will be calculated based on the Act and this Rule
       525. The Commission’s Enforcement Guidance and Penalty Policy also provides
       non-binding guidance to the Commission and interested persons evaluating a
       penalty for an alleged violation.

b.     Days of Violation and Continuing Violations. The duration of a violation
       presumptively will be calculated in days as follows:

       (3)   A reporting or other minor violation not involving actual or threatened
             significant adverse impacts begins on the day that the report should have
             been made or other required action should have been taken, and
             continues until the report is filed or the required action is commenced to
             the Director’s satisfaction.

       (4)   All other violations begin on the date the violation was discovered or
             should have been discovered through the exercise of reasonable care and
             continue until the appropriate corrective action is commenced to the
             Director’s satisfaction.

       (5)   Violations of the Act, any order or Rule of the Commission, or any permit
             continue for each day that they are not corrected by the Operator.

       (6)   With respect to violations that result in actual or threatened adverse
             impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
             resources, commencing appropriate corrective action includes, at a
             minimum:

             A.     Performing immediate actions necessary to assess and evaluate
                    the actual or threatened adverse impacts; and

             B.     Performing all other near-term actions necessary to stop, contain,
                    or control actual or threatened adverse impacts in order to protect
                    and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
                    environment, and wildlife resources. Such actions may include,
                    without limitation, stopping or containing a Spill or Release of E&P



                                                                                         300
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  Waste; establishing Well control after a loss of control event;
                  removing E&P Waste resulting from surface Spills or Releases;
                  installing fencing or other security measures to limit access
                  (including wildlife access) to affected areas; providing alternative
                  water supplies; notifying affected landowners, Local Governments,
                  and other persons or businesses; and, in cases of actual adverse
                  impacts, mobilizing all resources necessary to fully and completely
                  remediate the affected environment.

     (4)   A penalty will be assessed for each day the evidence shows a violation
           continued.

     (5)   The number of days of violation does not include any period necessary to
           allow the Operator to engage in good faith negotiation with the
           Commission regarding an alleged violation if the Operator demonstrates a
           prompt, effective, and prudent response to the violation.

c.   Penalty Calculation. The base penalty for each violation will be calculated
     based on the Commission’s Penalty Schedule, which considers the severity of
     the potential consequences of a violation of a specific rule combined with an
     assessment of the degree of actual or threatened adverse impacts to public
     health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. Pursuant to § 34-
     60-121(1)(a), C.R.S., the maximum daily penalty cannot exceed $15,000 per day
     per violation.

     (1)   Penalty Schedule. The Commission’s Penalty Schedule is set forth in the
           following matrix. The matrix establishes a daily penalty based on the
           classification of the Rule violation (Class 1, 2, or 3) and the degree of
           actual or threatened adverse impact resulting from the violation (minor,
           moderate, or major).




                                                                                    301
       CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
       Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                              Rule Classification

                                              Class 1:            Class 2:                Class 3:
                                              Paperwork or        Rules related at        Rules directly
                                              other               least indirectly to     related to
                                              ministerial         protecting and          protecting and
                                              Rules, a            minimizing              minimizing
                                              violation of        adverse impacts         adverse impacts
                                              which presents      to public health,       to public health,
                                              no direct risk or   safety, welfare,        safety, welfare,
                                              threat of harm      the environment,        the environment,
                                              to public           and wildlife            and wildlife
                                              health, safety,     resources, a            resources, a
                                              welfare, the        violation of which      violation of which
                                              environment,        presents a              presents a
                                              and wildlife        possibility of          significant
                                              resources.          distinct,               probability of
                                                                  identifiable actual     actual or
                                                                  or threatened           threatened
                                                                  adverse impacts         adverse impacts
                                                                  to those interests.     to those interests.

                         Major:
                         Actual significant   $5,000              $10,000                 $15,000
                         adverse impacts

                         Moderate:
                         Threat of
Degree of threatened     significant
or actual impact to      adverse impacts,     $1,500              $5,000                  $10,000
public health, safety,   or moderate
welfare, the             actual adverse
environment, or          impacts
wildlife resources
                         Minor:
                         No actual
                         adverse impact
                                              $200                $2,500                  $5,000
                         and little or no
                         threat of adverse
                         impacts




                                                                                                302
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Degree of Actual or Threatened Adverse Impact. The base penalty for
           a violation may be increased based on the degree of actual or threatened
           adverse impact to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
           wildlife resources resulting from the violation. The Commission,
           Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will determine the degree of
           actual or threatened adverse impact to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources, based on the totality of circumstances
           in each case. The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
           Officer will consider the following, non-exclusive, list of factors in making
           its determination:

           A.     Whether and to what degree the environment and wildlife resources
                  were adversely affected or threatened by the violation. This factor
                  considers the existence, size, and proximity of potentially impacted
                  livestock, wildlife, soil, water, air, and all other natural or
                  environmental resources;

           B.     Whether and to what degree Waters of the State were adversely
                  affected or threatened by the violation;

           C.     Whether and to what degree drinking water was adversely affected
                  or threatened by the violation;

           D.     Whether and to what degree public or private property was
                  adversely affected or threatened by the violation;

           E.     The quantity and character of any E&P Waste or non-E&P Waste
                  that was actually or threatened to be Spilled or Released;

           F.     Whether any persons were harmed or whether there was a threat
                  to the health, safety, and welfare of any persons; and

           G.     Any other facts relevant to an objective assessment of the degree
                  of adverse impact to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                  and wildlife resources.

     (3)   Penalty Adjustments for Aggravating and Mitigating Factors. The
           Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may increase a
           penalty up to the statutory daily maximum amount if it finds any of the
           aggravating factors listed in Rule 525.c.(3).A, exist. The Commission,
           Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may decrease a penalty if it
           finds that the violator cooperated with the Commission and other agencies
           with respect to the violation and that any of the mitigating factors listed in
           Rule 525.c.(3).B exist.

           A.     Aggravating factors:




                                                                                     303
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.      The violator acted with gross negligence or knowing and
                        willful misconduct.

                ii.     The violation resulted in significant waste of Energy and
                        Carbon Management resources.

                iii.    The violation had a significant negative impact on correlative
                        rights of other parties.

                iv.     The violator was recalcitrant or uncooperative with the
                        Commission or other agencies in correcting or responding to
                        the violation.

                v.      The violator falsified reports or records.

                vi.     The violator benefited economically from the violation, in
                        which case the amount of such benefit will be taken into
                        consideration.

                vii.    The violator has engaged in a pattern of violations.

                viii.   The violation led to death or serious injury.

          B.    Mitigating factors:

                a.      The violator self-reported the violation.

                b.      The violator demonstrated prompt, effective and prudent
                        response to the violation, including assistance to any
                        impacted parties.

                c.      The cause of the violation was outside of the violator's
                        reasonable control and responsibility, or is customarily
                        considered to be force majeure.

                d.      The violator made a good faith effort to comply with
                        applicable requirements prior to the Commission learning of
                        the violation.

                e.      The cost of correcting the violation reduced or eliminated
                        any economic benefit to the violator, excluding
                        circumstances in which increased costs stemmed from non-
                        compliance.

                f.      The violator has demonstrated a history of compliance with
                        the Act and Commission’s Rules, orders, and permits.




                                                                                     304
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Penalty Adjustments Based on Duration of Violation. In its discretion,
           the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may
           decrease the daily penalty amounts for violations of long duration to
           ensure the total penalty is appropriate to the nature of the violation.

d.   Mandatory OFV Hearings – Criteria, Evidence, and Remedies.

     (1)   The Director will apply for an OFV hearing when the Director alleges an
           Operator has:

           A.    Engaged in a pattern of violations of the Act, any Rule or order of
                 the Commission, or any permit;

           B.    Acted with gross negligence or knowing and willful misconduct that
                 resulted in an egregious violation; or

           C.    Violated the Act, any Rule or order of the Commission, or any
                 permit in a manner that results in a major adverse impact, as
                 defined in Rule 525.c.(1), to public health, safety, welfare, the
                 environment, or wildlife resources and the violation is the third
                 violation committed by the same Operator in one year that caused
                 a major impact to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or
                 wildlife resources;

           D.    Violated the Act, any Rule or Order of the Commission, or any
                 permit in a manner that results in death or serious injury to an
                 individual; or

           E.    Violated the Act, any Rule or Order of the Commission, or any
                 permit and the Director seeks a Commission order imposing a
                 penalty of $1 million or more.

     (2)   If the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer finds
           after hearing that an Operator has engaged in any of the conduct
           described in Rule 525.d.(1), the Commission, Administrative Law Judge,
           or Hearing Officer may prohibit the issuance of any new permits to the
           Operator; suspend any or all of the Operator’s Certificates of Clearance;
           suspend the Operator’s License for Operations; or take any combination
           of these actions. If an Operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
           Commission that the Operator has brought each of the violations into
           compliance and that any penalty not subject to judicial review or appeal
           has been paid, the Commission may vacate the order.

     (3)   The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will
           consider an Operator’s history of violations of the Act or Commission’s
           Rules, orders, or permits, and any other factors relevant to objectively
           determining whether an Operator has engaged in a pattern of violations.
           For an Operator’s history of violations, the Commission, Administrative



                                                                                    305
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may only consider violations confirmed by
           Commission order through an AOC or OFV.

     (4)   In determining whether to prohibit the issuance of new permits to an
           Operator, suspend any or all of the Operator’s Certificates of Clearance,
           suspend the Operator’s License for Operations, or take any combination
           of these actions, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing
           Officer may consider as evidence any violation confirmed by Commission
           order through an AOC or OFV.

e.   Voluntary Disclosure.

     (1)   The Director may consider a penalty reduction for a violation of the Act or
           any Commission Rule, order, or permit voluntarily disclosed by an
           Operator if:

           A.     The disclosure is made promptly after the Operator discovers the
                  violation;

           B.     The Operator discovered the violation independent of, and
                  unrelated to a Commission inspection or an NOAV;

           C.     The Operator cooperates with the Director regarding investigation
                  of the disclosed violation; and

           D.     The Operator has achieved or commits to achieve compliance
                  within a reasonable time and pursues compliance with due
                  diligence.

     (2)   The Director may not consider a penalty reduction if:

           A.     The disclosure is made for fraudulent purposes;

           B.     The disclosed violation is part of a pattern of violations; or

           C.     The disclosed violation was egregious and the result of the
                  Operator’s gross negligence or knowing and willful misconduct.

     (3)   If the Director determines that any of the factors in Rule 525.e.(1) are not
           met or that the factors in Rule 525.e.(2) are met, the Director may
           consider the fact that the Operator self-reported the violation as a
           mitigating factor pursuant to Rule 525.c.(3).B.(i).

f.   Public Projects. In its discretion, the Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or
     Hearing Officer may allow an Operator to satisfy a penalty in whole or in part by a
     public project that the Operator is not otherwise legally required to undertake.
     The costs of the public project may offset the penalty amount dollar for dollar, or
     by some other ratio determined by the Commission. A public project will provide



                                                                                    306
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       tangible benefit to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife
       resources. The Commission favors public projects that benefit the persons or
       communities most directly affected by a violation, or that provide education or
       training to Local Government entities, first responders, the public, or the
       regulated community related to the violation.

g.     Payment of Penalties. An Operator will pay a penalty imposed by Commission
       order, by certified funds unless otherwise agreed to, within 30 days of the
       effective date of the order, unless the Commission grants a longer period or
       unless the Operator files for judicial appeal, in which event payment of the
       penalty will be stayed pending resolution of such appeal. An Operator’s
       obligations to comply with the provisions of a Commission order requiring
       compliance with the Act or Commission’s Rules, orders, or permits will not be
       stayed pending resolution of an appeal, except by court order.

526.   DETERMINATION OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY

The Director will have evidence to supports its allegations against an Operator. If the
Director initiates an enforcement proceeding against an Operator, the Operator may
raise as an affirmative defense that another person is the Responsible Party for the
alleged violation. If the Operator raises an affirmative defense that a different person is
the Responsible Party, it will provide credible evidence to support its affirmative
defense.

a.     A hearing may be initiated on the Commission’s own motion, upon application, or
       at the request of the Director to decide Responsible Party status upon at least 21
       days’ notice to the potentially Responsible Parties.

b.     Potentially Responsible Parties will be those persons that have or should have
       submitted a Form 1, Registration for Oil and Gas Operations, or that have or
       should have submitted Financial Assurance for Oil and Gas Operations pursuant
       to requirements of the Commission’s 700 Series Rules.

c.     Potentially Responsible Parties will provide to the Commission, Director,
       Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer such information as the
       Commission, Director, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may
       reasonably require in making such determination.

d.     If an Operator raises an affirmative defense that another person is the
       Responsible Party, the Operator raising the affirmative defense will identify the
       person alleged to be the Responsible Party, and provide that person with notice
       concurrent with filing an Answer to an NOAV.

e.     The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will make the
       determination under this section without regard to any contractual or legal
       disputes between the parties regarding assignments of liability or other legal
       defenses.




                                                                                          307
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.     Each Responsible Party will be liable only for a proportionate share of any costs
       imposed under this Rule, and will not be held jointly and severally liable for such
       costs.

g.     The Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will find
       Responsible Party status and mitigation liability if the Responsible Party
       conducted operations that resulted in or threatened to cause an adverse impact
       to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources in
       contravention of any then applicable provision of the Act or Commission Rule, or
       order of the Commission, or of any permit.

527.   PERMIT-RELATED PENALTIES

a.     If the Commission determines, after a hearing, that an Operator failed to perform
       any required corrective action, or failed to comply with a Cease and Desist Order
       issued by the Commission or the Director with regard to violation of a permit
       provision, the Commission may issue an order suspending, modifying, or
       revoking a permit or permits authorizing the operation. The order will provide the
       condition(s), which will be met by the Operator for reinstatement of the permit(s).
       An Operator which is subject to an order that suspends, modifies, or revokes a
       permit or permits will continue the affected operations only for the purpose of
       bringing them into compliance with the permit(s) or modified permit(s), and will do
       so under the supervision of the Director. Once the condition for reinstatement
       has been met to the satisfaction of the Director and any fine not subject to judicial
       review or appeal has been paid, the Director will inform the Commission, and the
       Commission, if in agreement, will reinstate the permit(s).

528.   CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS

a.     The Commission or the Director may issue a Cease and Desist Order to an
       Operator whenever the Commission or the Director has evidence that the
       Operator has:

       (1)    Violated the Act, a Rule, an order of the commission, or a permit, or

       (2)    Failed to take required corrective action, and

       (3)    Such violation or failure to take correction action has occurred under
              circumstances deemed to constitute an Emergency Situation, or

       (4)    Has caused, or threatened to cause, a significant adverse impact to public
              health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources that requires
              immediate action.

       If the Cease and Desist Order is entered by the Director, it will be reported to the
       Commission not later than the next regularly scheduled Commission hearing,
       unless the matter is heard pursuant to the expedited procedure under § 34-60-
       121(5)(b), C.R.S.



                                                                                        308
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.     The Cease and Desist Order will be served pursuant to Rule 522.e within 7 days
       after it is issued.

c.     The Cease and Desist Order will state the provisions of the Act or Commission’s
       Rules, orders, or permits alleged to have been violated, and will contain a short
       and plain statement of the facts alleged to constitute the violation, the time by
       which the acts or practices cited are required to cease, and any corrective action
       the Commission or the Director elects to require of the Operator.

d.     An objection by an Operator to a Cease and Desist Order will be heard by the
       Commission pursuant to § 34-60-121(5)(b), C.R.S. An Operator’s objection to a
       Cease and Desist Order will not stay the order pending a Commission hearing on
       the matter, unless the Operator obtains an injunction enjoining enforcement of
       the Cease and Desist Order.

e.     After the issuance of a Cease and Desist Order, the Director may require
       amendment to or suspension of the Operator’s license to operate, or a permit
       associated with the Cease and Desist Order if necessary to protect and minimize
       adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
       resources. No amendment or suspension of a license or permit may occur
       without notice and hearing before the Commission.

f.     If an Operator fails to comply with a Cease and Desist Order, the Commission
       may request the attorney general to bring suit pursuant to § 34-60-109, C.R.S.

529.   RULEMAKING PROCEEDINGS

a.     Initiation of Rulemaking. The Commission may initiate rulemaking on its own
       motion or in response to an application filed by any person, including the
       Director. Whether to conduct a rulemaking lies within the discretion of the
       Commission. A rulemaking may address regulations statewide, or in a more
       limited geographic area such as a specific geologic basin or Field.

b.     Applications for Rulemaking. Any person may petition the Commission to
       initiate rulemaking. All applications for rulemaking will contain the following
       information:

       (1)    The name, address, and telephone number of the person requesting the
              rulemaking;

       (2)    A copy of the rule proposed in the application and a general statement of
              the reasons for the requested rule;

       (3)    The Commission’s statutory authority to enact the proposed rule; and

       (4)    A proposed statement of the basis and purpose for the rule.




                                                                                         309
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. All rulemaking hearings of the Commission
     will be noticed by publication in the Colorado Register not less than 20 days prior
     to the hearing and as otherwise specified in the Administrative Procedure Act, §
     24-4-103, C.R.S.

d.   Development of Proposed Rules. Prior to the notice of proposed rulemaking,
     the Commission or Director will establish a representative group of participants
     with an interest in the subject of the rulemaking pursuant to § 24-4-103(2), C.R.S.
     The Commission or Director may also use other means to gather information,
     including, but not limited to public forums, investigation by Commission Staff, and
     formation of rulemaking teams. Commissioners may participate in such informal
     proceedings.

     (1)    Colorado Parks and Wildlife Consultation. For new basin-wide orders
            or modifications of existing basin-wide or Field-wide orders, on issues
            pertaining to Wildlife Resources or wildlife-related environmental concerns
            or protections, or for development acreage that intersects High Priority
            Habitat, the Commission will consult with CPW during the stakeholder
            process.

     (2)    The Director will consult with the CDPHE when the Commission develops
            a regulation that can reasonably be anticipated to have impacts on public
            health, welfare, safety, or the environment.

     (3)    The Director will consult with the CDPHE when an Operator requests a
            modification of an existing Commission order to increase Well density or
            otherwise proposes a Well density of more than 1 Well per 40 acres.

e.   Content of Notice. The notice will state the time, date, place, and general
     subject matter of the hearing to be held. It may include a statement indicating
     whether an informal public meeting will be held, the time, date, place, and
     general purpose of the meeting, any special procedures the Commission deems
     appropriate for the particular rulemaking proceeding and a statement
     encouraging public participation. The notice will state that the proposed
     regulations will be available upon request from the office of the Commission, and
     the date of availability. The notice will include a short and plain statement that
     summarizes the intended action and states generally the basis and purpose of
     the Rules.

f.   The Rulemaking Hearing. The Commission will hold a formal public hearing
     before promulgating any Rules or regulations. At that hearing, the Commission
     will afford any person an opportunity to submit data, views, or arguments. The
     Commission may limit such testimony or presentation of evidence, including oral
     testimony or presentations, at its discretion and may prohibit repetitive, irrelevant,
     or harassing testimony.

g.   Conduct of Rulemaking Hearings.




                                                                                       310
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)   The Commission encourages any person to participate at rulemaking
             hearings. The times at which the public may participate will be determined
             at the discretion of the Commission. The Commission may, at its
             discretion, limit the amount of time a person may use to comment or make
             public statements. Oaths will not be required for public participation.

       (2)   The Commission encourages witnesses to make plain, brief, and simple
             statements of their positions. It also encourages submittal of written
             statements prior to hearing, with only an oral summary of such a
             statement at the hearing. In its discretion, the Commission may allow only
             pre-filed written testimony and oral testimony or presentations at a
             rulemaking hearing.

       (3)   The order of presentation at a rulemaking hearing will be as established
             by the Commission at the hearing.

       (4)   The Commission has the discretion to continue rulemaking hearings by
             announcement at the rulemaking hearing without republishing the
             proposed Rules.

530.   EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS

a.     The following provisions will be applied in any adjudicatory proceeding before the
       Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer.

       (1)   No person will make or knowingly cause to be made to any member of the
             Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer an ex parte
             communication concerning the merits of a proceeding for which an
             application has been filed.

       (2)   No Commissioner, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer will make
             or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person an ex parte
             communication concerning the merits of a proceeding that has been
             noticed for hearing.

       (3)   A Commissioner, Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer who
             receives, or who makes, or knowingly causes to be made, a
             communication prohibited by this rule will place on the public record of
             proceeding:

             A.     All such written communications and any responses thereto; and

             B.     Memoranda stating the substance of any such oral communications
                    and any responses thereto.

       (4)   Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to
             be made by a person in violation of this Rule 530, the Commission,
             Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer may require the person to



                                                                                        311
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           show cause why their claim or interest in the proceeding should not be
           dismissed, denied, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such
           violation.

     (5)   If Staff is a party to an adjudicatory proceeding, they are subject to the
           provisions of this Rule 530.a.

b.   Oral or written communication with individual Commission members is
     permissible in a rulemaking proceeding. The Commission will make any
     communication presented to or considered by an individual Commissioner part of
     the record. After the rulemaking record is closed, new information that is intended
     for the rulemaking record will be presented to the Commission as a whole upon
     approval of a request to reopen the rulemaking record.

c.   This Rule 530 will not limit the right to challenge a decision of the Commission,
     Administrative Law Judge, or Hearing Officer on the grounds of bias or prejudice
     due to any ex parte communication.




                                                                                        312
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


600 SERIES SAFETY AND FACILITY OPERATIONS REGULATIONS

601.   INTRODUCTION

The Commission’s Rules in this 600 Series are promulgated to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public during all Oil and Gas Operations. They do not
apply to practices regulated by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.
For information about safety regulations applicable to industry personnel, contact the
U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”),
Regional Administrator, Colorado Region VIII, 1244 Speer Blvd, Suite 551, Denver, CO
80204, 720-264-6550, or visit https://www.osha.gov/contactus/bystate/CO/areaoffice.

602.   GENERAL SAFETY REQUIREMENTS

Operators will operate and maintain all Oil and Gas Facilities in a safe manner.
Operators will train their employees in the safe conduct of all job responsibilities,
including safe operation and location of all equipment. An Operator will ensure that all
contractors, subcontractors, and persons directly under the Operator’s control on an Oil
and Gas Location or at an Oil and Gas Facility receive adequate training and are aware
of the hazards presented by the Operator’s Oil and Gas Operations.

a.     Operators will familiarize their employees, contractors, and subcontractors with
       the Commission’s Rules as they relate to the person’s job functions.

b.     Worker Safety, Training, and Certification Requirements.

       (1)   Operators are responsible for training all employees so that operations
             can be conducted in a safe and workmanlike manner at all times. Such
             training will include at a minimum the review and training on standard
             operating procedures and best management practices for each job
             function.

       (2)   Operators are responsible for ensuring that operations are conducted with
             due regard for the safety of employees, for the preservation and
             conservation of property, and for protecting and minimizing adverse
             impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
             resources.

       (3)   Operators will ensure that all workers in the following categories maintain
             certifications:

             A.     Compliance officers responsible for ensuring that the Operator and
                    its workers comply with the federal “Occupational Safety and Health
                    Act of 1970,” 29. U.S.C. sec. 651 et seq., including specifically
                    working in confined spaces;




                                                                                       313
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    Compliance officers responsible for ensuring that the Operator and
                 its workers comply with the codes referenced in the Commission’s
                 Rules published by the American Petroleum Institute and American
                 Society of Mechanical Engineers or their successor organizations;

           C.    Workers handling hazardous materials; and

           D.    Welders working on Flowlines.

     (4)   Beginning July 1, 2026, Operators will ensure that, in addition to meeting
           the requirements of Rule 602.b.(3), Welders working on Flowlines also
           have:

           A.    Knowledge of the Commission’s 1100 Series flowline rules related
                 to welding;

           B.    A minimum of 7,000 hours of documented on-the-job training or be
                 supervised by a person with the requisite 7,000 hours of on-the-job
                 training. This requirement can be satisfied by applying specific
                 training, education, and experience equivalent to 7,000 hours:

                 i)     Completion of trade or vocational courses, with certification
                        in welding or related engineering technology, engineering, or
                        a physical science may substitute for 2,080 hours;

                 ii)    An associate’s degree in welding, engineering technology,
                        engineering, or a physical science may substitute for 4,160
                        hours;

                 iii)   A bachelor’s or higher degree in welding technology or
                        welding engineering may substitute for 7,000 hours;

                 iv)    Documented work hours performed in oil and gas related
                        positions may be applied as credit toward the 7,000 hour
                        requirement. However, non-welding oil and gas related
                        positions may only substitute up to 5,000 hours; and

           C.    Passage of the:

                 (i)    API Standard 1104, Welding of Pipelines and Related
                        Facilities or an analogous successor certification; or

                 (ii)   ASME Section IX, Welding, Brazing, and Fusing
                        Qualifications or an analogous successor qualification.

     (5)   Welders may demonstrate compliance with Rule 602.b.(4).B by providing
           a sworn verification attesting that they have obtained the necessary
           experience.



                                                                                   314
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)    Upon request from the Director, the Operator will supply the Director
            training and certification records demonstrating compliance with this Rule
            602.b.

c.   Operators are responsible for ensuring that operations are conducted with due
     regard for the safety of employees, for the preservation and conservation of
     property, and for protecting and minimizing adverse impacts to public health,
     safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

d.   Operators will establish and maintain a written operations safety management
     program for all Oil and Gas Operations. The operations safety management
     program will establish operational practices and procedures for safety and will
     include at a minimum a:

     (1)    Change management program; and

     (2)    Pre-Startup safety program for all new and existing Oil and Gas Locations.

e.   Employees, contractors, and subcontractors will immediately report unsafe and
     potentially dangerous conditions to their supervisor and any such conditions will
     be remedied as soon as practicable.

f.   In the event of a situation that requires operations to cease due to an imminent
     threat to safety, the Director may order a safety shut-in of an Oil and Gas
     Location until the imminent threat to safety is resolved. If the Director requires an
     Operator to take action pursuant to Rule 602.f, the Operator may appeal the
     Director’s decision to the Commission pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10). The matter
     will not be assigned to an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to Rule 503.h. The
     Commission will hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
     Operators will continue to comply with any requirements identified by the Director
     pursuant to Rule 602.f until the Commission makes a decision on the appeal.
     The Commission may uphold the Director’s decision if the Commission
     determines the Director had reasonable cause to determine that an Operator’s
     actions posed an imminent threat to safety, and that the action required by the
     Director was necessary and reasonable to address those impacts or threatened
     impacts. If an Operator does not appeal the Director’s decision pursuant to this
     Rule 602.f, the Director will report the decision at its next regularly scheduled
     hearing.

g.   Operators will notify the Director and the Local Government of the applicable
     jurisdiction of reportable safety events at an Oil and Gas Facility. Reportable
     safety events include:

     (1)    Any accidental fire, explosion, detonation, uncontrolled release of
            pressure, or loss of Well control, vandalism or terrorist activity, or any
            accidental or natural event that damages equipment or otherwise alters an
            Oil and Gas Facility so as to create a significant Spill or Release, fire




                                                                                       315
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            hazard, unintentional public access, or any other condition that threatens
            public safety;

     (2)    Any accident or natural event at an Oil and Gas Facility that results in a
            reportable injury as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor,
            Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), 29 C.F.R. §
            1904.39 (2021). Only the January 15, 2021 version of OSHA’s 29 C.F.R. §
            1904.39 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All materials
            incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public inspection
            during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
            office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO
            80203. In addition, 29 C.F.R. § 1904.39 (2021) is available from OSHA’s
            Office of Regional Administrator, Colorado Region VIII, 1244 Speer Blvd,
            Suite 551, Denver, CO 80204, and is available online at
            https://www.osha.gov/laws-
            regs/regulations/standardnumber/1904/1904.39;

     (3)    Any Spill or Release of hazardous Chemicals reportable to another state
            or federal agency, or a Grade 1 Gas Leak; and

     (4)    Any accident or natural event at an Oil and Gas Facility that results in:

            A.     An injury to a member of the general public that requires medical
                   treatment; or

            B.     Damage to lands, structures, or property on or off the Oil and Gas
                   Location.

h.   Operators will provide initial notification of a reportable safety event described in
     Rule 602.g.(1)–(4) above, as soon as practicable, but no more than 6 hours after
     the safety event. A Form 22, Accident Report, will be submitted to the Director
     within 3 days of the reportable safety event.

     (1)    At the Director’s request, the Operator will submit a supplemental report
            that details the root cause, information about any repairs, or other
            information related to the accident.

     (2)    At the Director’s request, the Operator will present its root cause report
            about the accident to the Commission or to an oil and gas safety review
            organization approved by the Director.

i.   Where unsafe or potentially dangerous conditions exist at an Oil and Gas
     Location and first responders or Commission Staff are on-site, the Operator will
     respond to and be present at the Location with first responders or Commission
     Staff.

j.   Each Operator will have a functioning emergency response plan that provides for
     the effective management of situations that may arise from Oil and Gas



                                                                                        316
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       Operations. All existing and proposed Oil and Gas Locations will have an
       emergency response plan in place that has been coordinated with, and approved
       by, the local emergency response agency. The plan may be developed to cover
       all Oil and Gas Locations within a Field or geographical area so long as the
       emergency response agency agrees.

       (1)    After the initial emergency response plan has been coordinated with,
              reviewed by, and approved by the local emergency response agency, the
              emergency response plan will then be reviewed and updated at intervals
              designated by the local emergency response agency.

       (2)    After approval of a Form 9, Transfer of Operatorship pursuant to Rule
              218.e, the Buying Operator will coordinate with the local emergency
              response agency to update the emergency response plan as appropriate.

k.     Vehicles not necessary for drilling, production, servicing, or seismic operations
       will be located a minimum distance of 100 feet from the wellbore, or a distance
       equal to the height of the derrick or mast, whichever is greater. Operators will
       take equivalent safety measures where terrain, location, or other conditions do
       not permit this minimum distance.

l.     Existing Production Facilities are exempt from the provisions of the
       Commission’s Rules with respect to minimum distance requirements and
       setbacks unless they are found by the Director to be unsafe.

m.     Operators will provide self-contained physically secured sanitary facilities during
       drilling operations and at any other similarly staffed Oil and Gas Location or Oil
       and Gas Facility, and ensure that waste remains contained within the sanitary
       facilities.

603.   OPERATIONAL AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS

a.     Blowout Prevention Equipment (“BOPE”). The Operator will take all
       necessary precautions for keeping a Well under control during drilling,
       deepening, re-entering, recompleting, workovers, or plugging. The Operator will
       indicate the BOPE, if any, on the Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill, as well
       as any known subsurface conditions (e.g., under- or over-pressured formations).
       The Operator will ensure the working pressure of any BOPE exceeds the
       anticipated surface pressure to which it may be subjected, assuming a partially
       evacuated hole with a pressure gradient of 0.22 pounds per square inch (“psi”)
       per foot.

       (1)    The Commission may designate specific areas, Fields, or formations as
              requiring certain BOPE. Any such proposed designation will occur by
              notice describing the area, Field, or formation in question and will be given
              to all Operators of record within such area or Field and by publication. The
              proposed designation, if no protest is timely filed, will be placed on the
              Commission consent agenda for its next regularly scheduled meeting. The



                                                                                       317
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            matter will be approved or heard by the Commission pursuant to Rule 519.
            Such designation will be effective immediately upon approval by the
            Commission, except as to any previously approved Form 2. If a protest is
            timely filed, the designation will be heard by the Commission pursuant to
            the Commission’s 500 Series Rules.

     (2)    Pursuant to this Rule 603.a, the Director may condition the approval of
            any Form 2 by requiring BOPE which the Director determines to be
            necessary for keeping the Well under control. Should the Operator object
            to such condition of approval, the Commission will hear the matter at the
            next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission, subject to the notice
            requirements of Rule 504.

b.   Rig Floor Safety Valve Requirements. During drilling or Well servicing
     operations there will be on the rig floor a safety valve with connections suitable
     for use with each size and type of tool joint or coupling being used on the job.

c.   Well Servicing Operations.

     (1)    Pressure Check Requirements. Prior to commencing Well servicing
            operations, the Well will be checked for pressure and steps taken to
            remove pressure or to ensure that operations may be safely conducted
            under pressure.

     (2)    BOPE.

            A.     Adequate BOPE equipment will be used on all Well servicing
                   operations.

            B.     Backup stabbing valves will be required on Well servicing
                   operations during reverse circulation. Valves will be pressure tested
                   before each Well servicing operation using low-pressure air or Fluid
                   or high-pressure Fluid.

     (3)    All Well servicing operations will be conducted in accordance with
            American Petroleum Institute (“API”) Recommended Practice (“RP”) 54,
            Occupational Safety and Health for Oil and Gas Well Drilling and Servicing
            Operations, Third Edition Reaffirmed, January 2013. Only the Third
            Edition of API’s RP 54 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not
            apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
            public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
            Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
            801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials are available from
            API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070.

     (4)    An Operator will:




                                                                                     318
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     Design drilling Fluid in conjunction with operating procedures and
                  surface equipment to prevent the blowout of any Well until the Well
                  has been placed into production;

           B.     Maintain adequate supplies of drilling Fluid of sufficient weight and
                  other acceptable characteristics;

           C.     Perform drilling Fluid tests as necessary to ensure Well control;

           D.     Maintain adequate drilling Fluid testing equipment on the location at
                  all times;

           E.     Monitor wellbore Fluid levels to ensure Well control at all times,
                  including when running or pulling pipe;

           F.     Monitor mud Pit levels visually or mechanically during the drilling
                  process; and

           G.     Install and operate mud-gas separation equipment as necessary.

     (5)   The Director will have access to the drilling Fluid records related to the
           Fluid’s properties used to control the Well (Fluid type, density, viscosity,
           Fluid loss control, and other rheological properties), and will be allowed to
           request or conduct any essential tests on the drilling Fluid used in the
           drilling or recompletion of a Well. The Operator will retain all records for a
           period of 5 years.

     (6)   When the conditions and tests indicate a need for a change in the drilling
           Fluid program in order to ensure control of the Well, the Operator will use
           due diligence in modifying the program.

     (7)   An Operator will maintain Well control using BOPE systems and/or
           diverter systems for Wells drilled with air, nitrogen, or foam.

     (8)   The Operator will install BOPE when there is any indication that a Well will
           flow, either through prior records, present Well conditions, or the planned
           Well work, or special orders of the Commission.

     (9)   When required, BOPE will be in accordance with API Standard 53: “Well
           Control Equipment Systems for Drilling Wells,” 5th Edition (December
           2018). Only the 5th Edition of API Standard 53 applies to this Rule; later
           amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this
           Rule are available for public inspection during normal business hours from
           the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
           Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials
           are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070.




                                                                                       319
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (10)   Drilling after setting the surface casing will not proceed until BOPE is
            tested and found to be serviceable. Low pressure and high pressure tests
            will be performed. Test pressure, test duration, and test frequency will be
            in accordance with API Standard 53: “Well Control Equipment Systems for
            Drilling Wells,” 5th Edition (December 2018), as incorporated by reference
            in Rule 603.c.(9), except that the minimum low pressure for a low pressure
            test will be 250 psi. Test pressure loss will be less than or equal to 10% of
            the initial stabilized surface pressure at the end of the test when testing
            with rig pumps against casing. When a test plug is used to isolate the
            casing from the BOPE being tested, then there will be no unexplainable
            pressure loss at the end of the test.

     (11)   While in service, BOPE will be inspected daily and a preventer operating
            test will be performed on each round trip, but not more than once every 24
            hour period. Notation of operating tests will be made on the daily report.

     (12)   All pipe fittings, valves, and unions placed on or connected with BOPE,
            well casing, wellhead, drill pipe, or tubing will have a working pressure
            rating suitable for the maximum anticipated surface pressure and will be in
            good working condition as per generally accepted industry standards. The
            Operator will equip wellhead assemblies to monitor pressure-containing
            annuli at surface, unless exempted by the Director.

     (13)   BOPE will include pipe rams, blind rams, annular preventer, or other
            equipment that enable closure on the pipe being used. The choke line(s)
            and kill line(s) will be anchored, tied, or otherwise secured to prevent
            whipping resulting from pressure surges.

     (14)   The Operator will inspect and service the wellhead, tree, and related
            surface control equipment to maintain pressure control throughout the life
            of the Well.

     (15)   The Operator will conduct pressure testing of the casing string pursuant to
            Rule 408.

     (16)   An Operator will complete a formation integrity test (“FIT”) after drilling out
            below the surface casing shoe and any intermediate casing shoes for a
            minimum of 1 Well on each Oil and Gas Location if:

            A.     The fracture gradient of the formation at the casing shoe is
                   unknown; or

            B.     The test is necessary to demonstrate:

                   i.     The casing shoe integrity is sufficient to contain the
                          anticipated wellbore pressures of the penetrated formations;




                                                                                       320
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  ii.    Flow paths to the formations above the casing shoe do not
                         exist; or

                  iii.   The casing shoe is competent to handle an influx of
                         formation Fluid or gas.

            C.    An Operator will submit a plan to the Director for approval if the FIT
                  does not demonstrate the requirements of Rule 603.c.(16).B.

            D.    The Operator will perform the FIT before drilling 20 feet or less of
                  new hole, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission.

     (17)   If the blind rams are closed for any purpose except operational testing, the
            valves on the choke lines or relief lines below the blind rams should be
            opened prior to opening the rams to bleed off any pressure.

     (18)   BOPE for drilling operations will consist of (at a minimum):

            A.    Rig with Kelly. Double ram with blind ram and pipe ram; annular
                  preventer or a rotating head.

            B.    Rig Without Kelly. Double ram with blind ram and pipe ram.

            C.    Trained Personnel.

                  i.     During drilling operations there will be at least 2 persons at
                         the Well Site that have successfully completed an
                         International Association of Drilling Contractors certified Well
                         control training, or have completed a Director-approved
                         BOPE training.

                  ii.    All rig employees will have adequate understanding of and
                         be able to operate the BOPE system. New employees will be
                         trained in the operation of BOPE systems.

     (19)   BOPE Testing for Drilling Operations. Upon initial rig-up and at least
            once every 30 days during drilling operations thereafter, pressure testing
            of the casing string and each component of the BOPE including flange
            connections will be performed to 70% of working pressure or 70% of the
            internal yield of casing, whichever is less. Pressure testing will be
            conducted and the documented results will be retained by the Operator for
            inspection by the Director for a period of 1 year. Activation of the pipe
            rams for function testing will be conducted on a daily basis when
            practicable.

d.   Well Consolidation. Where necessary and reasonable, Operators will
     consolidate new Wells to create multi-Well pads, including shared locations with




                                                                                     321
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     other Operators to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety,
     welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

e.   Development from Existing Oil and Gas Locations. Where possible,
     Operators will develop multiple reservoirs by drilling from existing Oil and Gas
     Locations or by multiple completions or commingling in existing wellbores.

f.   Pit Level Indicators. Pit level indicators will be used for mud Tanks and Drilling
     Pits.

g.   Drill Stem Tests. Closed chamber drill stem tests will be allowed. All other drill
     stem tests require Director approval.

h.   Fencing Requirements. Unless otherwise requested by the Surface Owner, Oil
     and Gas Locations or Oil and Gas Facilities will be adequately fenced to restrict
     access by unauthorized persons, if determined necessary by the Director.
     However, all pumps and Pits will be adequately fenced to prevent access by
     unauthorized persons.

i.   Loadlines. All loadlines will be bullplugged or capped.

j.   Guy Line Anchors. All guy line anchors left buried for future use will be
     identified by a marker of bright color not less than 4 feet in height and not greater
     than 1 foot east of the guy line anchor.

k.   Tank Specifications. All newly installed or replaced crude oil and condensate
     storage Tanks will be designed, constructed, and maintained pursuant to the
     National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) Code 30, Flammable and
     Combustible Liquids Code (2018 version). The Operator will maintain written
     records verifying proper design, construction, and maintenance, and will make
     these records available for inspection by the Director. Only the 2018 version of
     NFPA Code 30 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All materials
     incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public inspections during
     normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
     Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition,
     these materials are available from the NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA,
     02169-7471.

l.   Access Roads. At the time of construction, all leasehold roads will be
     constructed to accommodate all weather access by local emergency vehicles,
     and will be maintained in a stable condition.

m.   Well Site Cleared. Within 90 days after a Well is Plugged and Abandoned, the
     Well Site will be cleared of all non-essential equipment, trash, and debris. For
     good cause shown, a reasonable extension of time may be granted by the
     Director. The Operator will request prior approval for this extension on a Form 4,
     Sundry Notice.




                                                                                        322
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

n.   Identification of Plugged and Abandoned Wells. The Operator will identify the
     location of the wellbore with a permanent monument pursuant to Rule 434.a.(5).

o.   Secondary Containment. Operators will design, construct, and maintain
     secondary containment devices around new and significantly modified crude oil,
     condensate, and produced water storage Tanks.

     (1)   Operators will design secondary containment structures to be sufficiently
           sized to contain at least 150% of the volume of the largest single Tank
           within the containment.

     (2)   Operators will construct secondary containment of steel, or other
           engineered material, designed and installed to prevent leakage and resist
           degradation from erosion or routine operation.

     (3)   To prevent leakage, Operators will line secondary containment areas with
           an impervious synthetic or engineered liner that underlays all primary
           containment vessels including partially buried vessels. The liner will be
           sufficiently impervious so that any discharge from a primary containment
           system will not escape containment before cleanup occurs. The liner will
           be attached to secondary containment and any equipment penetrating the
           liner will have a sealed connection.

     (4)   Secondary containment will prevent Spills or Releases from primary
           containment vessels, process vessels, or pipelines from migrating
           horizontally or vertically prior to clean-up.

     (5)   For locations within 500 feet and upgradient of a surface water body or
           wetland, tertiary containment, such as a compacted earthen berm, is
           required around Production Facilities.

     (6)   No potential ignition sources, aside from fired vessels (“FV”), will be
           installed inside the secondary containment area. Any electrical equipment
           installations inside the bermed area will comply with API RP 500,
           Recommended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical
           Installations at Petroleum Facilities classified as Class I, Division I and
           Division 2, 3rd Edition (including January 2014 errata), and the current
           national electrical code as adopted by the State of Colorado. Only the 3rd
           edition (including January 2014 errata) of API RP 500 applies to this Rule;
           later amendments do not apply. The materials incorporated by reference
           in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal business
           hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
           1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these
           materials are available from API, 1220 L Street NW, Washington, DC
           20005-4070, and from the Department of Regulatory Agencies, Colorado
           Electrical Board, 1560 Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, CO 80202.




                                                                                     323
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

604.   SETBACKS and SITING REQUIREMENTS

a.     Well Location Requirements.

       (1)   At the time the Well is drilled, a Well will be located not less than 200 feet
             from buildings, public roads, above ground utility lines, or railroads.

       (2)   At the time a Form 2A, Oil and Gas Location Assessment is filed, a Well
             will be located not less than 150 feet from a surface property line. The
             Commission may grant an exception if it is not feasible for the Operator to
             meet this minimum distance requirement and a waiver is obtained from
             the offset Surface Owner(s). The Operator will submit an exception
             location request letter stating the reasons for the exception and a signed
             waiver(s) from the offset Surface Owner(s) with the Form 2A for the
             proposed Oil and Gas Location where the Well will be drilled. Such signed
             waiver will be filed in the office of the county clerk and recorder of the
             county where the Well will be located.

       (3)   No Working Pad Surface will be located 2,000 feet or less from a School
             Facility or Child Care Center.

             A.     If the Operator and School Governing Body disagree as to whether
                    a proposed Working Pad Surface is 2,000 feet or less from a
                    School Facility or Child Care Center, the Commission will hear the
                    matter in the course of considering the proposed Oil and Gas
                    Development Plan. At the hearing, the Operator will demonstrate
                    that the Working Pad Surface is more than 2,000 feet from any
                    School Facility or Child Care Center.

             B.     Any hearing required under Rule 604.b.(3).A will be held at a
                    location reasonably proximate to the lands affected by the
                    proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan.

       (4)   No Working Pad Surface will be located less than 500 feet from 1 or more
             Residential Building Units not subject to a Surface Use Agreement or
             waiver, that includes informed consent from all Building Unit owner(s) and
             tenant(s) explicitly agreeing to the proposed Oil and Gas Location siting.

b.     Siting Requirements for Proposed Oil and Gas Locations Near Residential
       Building Units and High Occupancy Building Units. No Working Pad Surface
       will be located more than 500 feet and less than 2,000 feet from 1 or more
       Residential Building Units or High Occupancy Building Units unless one or more
       of the following conditions are satisfied:

       (1)   The Residential Building Unit owners and tenants and High Occupancy
             Building Unit owners and tenants within 2,000 feet of the Working Pad
             Surface explicitly agree with informed consent to the proposed Oil and
             Gas Location;



                                                                                        324
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   The location is within an approved Comprehensive Area Plan that includes
           preliminary siting approval pursuant to Rule 314.b.(4) or an approved
           Comprehensive Drilling Plan;;

     (3)   Any Wells, Tanks, separation equipment, or compressors proposed on the
           Oil and Gas Location will be located more than 2,000 feet from all
           Residential Building Units or High Occupancy Building Units; or

     (4)   The Commission finds, after a hearing pursuant to Rule 510, that the
           proposed Oil and Gas Location and conditions of approval will provide
           substantially equivalent protections for public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources.

           A.     The Commission will base its finding of substantial equivalence on
                  information including but not limited to:

                  i.     The Director’s Recommendation on the Oil and Gas
                         Location pursuant to Rule 306.b;

                  ii.    The extent to which the Oil and Gas Location design and
                         any planned Enhanced Systems and Practices, Best
                         Management Practices, preferred control technologies, and
                         conditions of approval avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse
                         impacts, considering:

                         aa.    Geology, technology, and topography;

                         bb.    The location of receptors and proximity to those
                                receptors; and

                         cc.    The anticipated size, duration, and intensity of all
                                phases of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations at the
                                proposed Oil and Gas Location.

                  iii.   The Relevant Local Government’s consideration or
                         disposition of a land use permit for the location, including
                         any siting decisions and conditions of approval identified as
                         appropriate by the Relevant Local Government;

                  iv.    The Operator’s alternative location analysis conducted
                         pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2), or an alternative location analysis
                         performed for the Relevant Local Government that the
                         Director has accepted as substantially equivalent pursuant to
                         Rule 304.e;

                  v.     Related Oil and Gas Location siting and infrastructure
                         proposed as a component of the same Oil and Gas
                         Development Plan as the proposed Oil and Gas Location;



                                                                                     325
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                vi.    How Oil and Gas Facilities associated with the proposed Oil
                       and Gas Location are designed to avoid, minimize, and
                       mitigate impacts on Residential Building Units and High
                       Occupancy Building Units; or

                vii.   The Operator’s actual and planned engagement with nearby
                       residents and businesses to consult with them about the
                       planned Oil and Gas Operations.

          B.    For proposed Oil and Gas Locations within 2,000 feet of a
                Residential Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit within a
                Disproportionately Impacted Community for which the Operator
                seeks approval pursuant to Rule 604.b.(4), the Commission will
                base its finding of substantial equivalence on the criteria set forth in
                Rules 604.b.(4).A.i-vii and 604.b.(4).B.i.aa-dd, and the information
                provided pursuant to Rule 604.b.(4).B.ii.

                i.     The Commission will not make a substantial equivalence
                       finding under 604.b.(4).B unless the Operator demonstrates
                       that:

                       aa.    The Operator has undertaken all reasonable efforts to
                              obtain informed consent and provides a summary as
                              to why informed consent could not be obtained from
                              each;

                       bb.    The alternative location analysis required under Rule
                              304.b.(2) demonstrates the selected location avoids,
                              minimizes, and mitigates any adverse Cumulative
                              Impacts to Disproportionately Impacted Communities;

                       cc.    The information and analysis required under Rule
                              315.b.(2).D.iii demonstrates that the operator has
                              analyzed the Colorado EnviroScreen score,
                              EnviroScreen Group Component scores, and
                              EnviroScreen Individual Components scores for the
                              proposed Oil and Gas Location and has employed
                              Best Management Practices and/or Enhanced
                              Systems and Practices sufficient to avoid, minimize,
                              and mitigate adverse impacts to any identified
                              community vulnerabilities; and

                       dd.    The Oil and Gas Location design and any planned
                              Enhanced Systems and Practices, Best Management
                              Practices, preferred control technologies, and
                              conditions of approval avoid, minimize, and mitigate
                              adverse impacts.




                                                                                    326
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                ii.   The Operator will provide:

                      aa.   Information showing that informed consent could not
                            be obtained because all owners or tenants of
                            Residential Building Units and High Occupancy
                            Building Units within 2,000 feet of the proposed Oil
                            and Gas Location refused to grant such consent or
                            failed to respond to communications from the
                            Operator and a summary of the Operator’s use of all
                            reasonable efforts to obtain informed consent which
                            includes a narrative as to why informed consent could
                            not be obtained from each;

                      bb.   Documentation of the Operator’s outreach to all
                            owners and tenants of Residential Building Units and
                            High Occupancy Building Units within 2,000 feet of
                            the Oil and Gas Location, including:

                            1.     Summaries of any neighborhood meetings;

                            2.     Summaries of all communications between the
                                   Operator and the owners or tenants, providing
                                   the date and nature of the communication
                                   (e.g., electronic mail, phone call, in-person
                                   meeting), all participants to the communication,
                                   and a detailed description of the substance of
                                   the communication;

                            3.     Verification that translation services were
                                   provided if necessary; and

                            4.     Verification that all written communications
                                   were written in easily understandable plain
                                   language and translated when necessary;

                      cc.   A written summary of any owner’s or tenant’s
                            comments on the proposed Oil and Gas Location or
                            operations, including support, concerns, or questions,
                            and any response the Operator provided to the owner
                            or tenant;

                      dd.   The number of informed consents sought and number
                            of informed consents obtained from Residential
                            Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit owners
                            or tenants within 2,000 feet of the Working Pad
                            Surface of the proposed Oil and Gas Location,
                            including how many informed consents were obtained




                                                                                  327
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                                 from residents of Disproportionately Impacted
                                 Community;

                           ee.   The information required pursuant to Rule
                                 315.b.(2).D.iii; and

                           ff.   A description of any voluntarily executed community
                                 benefit agreement governing the Operator and the
                                 owners and tenants of the Residential and High
                                 Occupancy Building Units within 2,000 feet of the
                                 Working Pad Surface of the proposed Oil and Gas
                                 Location and within the Disproportionately Impacted
                                 Community. The Community Liaison may provide
                                 assistance in the development of the community
                                 benefit agreement, but only as to identification of the
                                 relevant Disproportionately Impacted Community and
                                 clarity to community members around the
                                 Commission’s rules and policies, including
                                 opportunities to participate in the Commission’s
                                 permitting process, and not as to the terms of the
                                 community benefit agreement.

                    iii.   As part of the notice of hearing required pursuant to Rules
                           504.a.(1).A and 303.e.(1).B, the Operator will provide any
                           non-consenting owner or tenant of a Residential Building
                           Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit within 2,000 feet of the
                           Working Pad Surface:

                           aa.   Contact information for the Community Liaison and
                                 information about how the Community Liaison may
                                 assist the owner or tenant in participating in the
                                 permitting process;

                           bb.   Information regarding how the owner or tenant may
                                 submit oral or written public comments at the hearing;
                                 and

                           cc.   Information regarding how to access the Oil and Gas
                                 Development Plan application and related materials
                                 on the Commission’s website.

605.   SIGNAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS

a.     Oil and Gas Location Signage. For new Oil and Gas Locations, from the time of
       construction until Reclamation is complete, the Operator will post a sign at the
       entrance to an Oil and Gas Location that includes the:

       (1)   Oil and Gas Location name;



                                                                                     328
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Commission’s assigned Oil and Gas Location identification number (ID #);

     (3)   The Operator’s telephone number where it may be reached at all times;
           and

     (4)   Telephone number(s) for local emergency services (911 where available).

b.   Road Signage Requirements During Drilling Operations.

     (1)   Concurrent with or prior to Move-In, Rig-Up (“MIRU”), the Operator or its
           contractor will place a sign or marker at the point of intersection of the
           public road and rig access road, and the sign will be maintained until the
           drill rig is released.

     (2)   The sign placed during drilling operations will identify the public road to be
           used in accessing the rig, along with all necessary emergency numbers,
           and will be posted in a conspicuous place at the drilling rig.

c.   Drilling, Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, Flowback, and Recompletion
     Operations.

     (1)   Directional signs, no less than 3 square feet and no more than 6 square
           feet in size, will be provided during drilling, Hydraulic Fracturing
           Treatment, Flowback, and recompletion operations by the Operator or
           contractor.

     (2)   Such signs will be at locations sufficient to advise emergency crews where
           drilling, Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment, Flowback, and recompletion
           operations are taking place. At a minimum, such locations will include:

           A.     The first point of intersection of a public road and the rig access
                  road; and

           B.     Thereafter at each intersection of the rig access route, except
                  where the route to the Oil and Gas Location is clearly obvious to
                  uninformed third parties.

     (3)   Signs not necessary to meet other obligations under the Commission’s
           Rules will be removed as soon as practicable after the operation is
           complete.

d.   Well Signage Requirements.

     (1)   Within 60 days after a new Well is Completed, including each Well on a
           Multi-Well Site, or an existing sign is replaced or modified, a permanent
           sign will be conspicuously located at the wellhead and will identify:

           A.     The Well name;




                                                                                        329
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The API number; and

           C.    Its legal location, including the quarter/quarter section.

     (2)   When no associated Tank battery is present at the Oil and Gas Location,
           the following additional information is required on the Well sign:

           A.    Name of the Operator;

           B.    Telephone number at which the Operator can be reached at all
                 times;

           C.    Telephone number for local emergency services (911 where
                 available); and

           D.    The public road used to access the Well.

     (3)   Multi-Well Locations. On a multi-Well location the information required
           by Rule 605.d.(2) may be placed on one sign with dimensions as
           described in Rule 605.e.(2).

     (4)   If a Well is a known source of hydrogen sulfide gas, it will be marked
           accordingly.

e.   Tank Battery Signage.

     (1)   Within 60 days after the installation of a Tank battery, a permanent,
           conspicuous sign will be located at the battery.

     (2)   The Tank battery sign will be no less than 3 square feet and no more than
           6 square feet, and will provide:

           A.    Name of the Operator;

           B.    Telephone number at which the Operator can be reached at all
                 times;

           C.    Telephone number for local emergency services (911 where
                 available);

           D.    The public road used to access the Tank battery site;

           E.    Well name(s) and API number(s) associated with the Tank battery
                 and the legal location of the Well(s); and

           F.    Location, including the quarter/quarter section, of the Tank battery.

     (3)   If an Oil and Gas Location is a known source of hydrogen sulfide gas, it
           will be marked accordingly.



                                                                                     330
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.   Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility Signage.

     (1)   The main point of access to a Centralized E&P Waste Management
           Facility will be arked by a sign captioned:

                  “(Operator name) E&P Waste Management Facility, Permit #.”

           Such sign will be no less than 3 square feet and no more than 6 square
           feet and will provide:

           A.     A phone number at which the Operator can be reached at all times;

           B.     A phone number for local emergency services (911 where
                  available);

           C.     The public road used to access the facility; and

           D.     The legal location, including quarter/quarter section, of the facility.

     (2)   If a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility is a known source of
           hydrogen sulfide gas, it will be marked accordingly.

g.   General Sign Requirements.

     (1)   No sign required under this Rule 605 will be installed at a height
           exceeding 6 feet.

     (2)   Operators will ensure that signs are well maintained and legible, and will
           replace damaged or vandalized signs within 30 days of discovery that the
           sign is no longer legible or is damaged.

     (3)   Upon the Director’s approval of a Form 9 the Buying Operator will have 60
           days to replace or update all signs at the Oil and Gas Location so that the
           signs comply with Rule 605.

h.   Tank and Container labels.

     (1)   All Tanks with a capacity of 10 Barrels or greater will be labeled or posted
           with the following information:

           A.     Name of Operator;

           B.     Operator’s emergency contact telephone number;

           C.     Tank capacity;

           D.     Tank contents; and

           E.     NFPA label or equivalent globally harmonized label.



                                                                                       331
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)   Lettering on all new Tanks, and on any reapplied or modified labels, will
             be legible from a distance of 100 feet.




       (3)   Containers that are used to store, treat, or otherwise handle a hazardous
             material and which are required to be marked, placarded, or labeled in
             accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Hazardous
             Materials Regulations, will retain the markings, placards, and labels on the
             Container. Such markings, placards, and labels will be retained on the
             Container until it is sufficiently cleaned of residue and purged of vapors to
             remove any potential hazards.

606.   EQUIPMENT, WEEDS, WASTE, AND TRASH REQUIREMENTS.

a.     The storage, placement, or maintenance of equipment, vehicles, trailers,
       commercial products, Chemicals, drums, totes, Containers, materials, and all
       other supplies not necessary for use on an Oil and Gas Locations is prohibited.

       (1)   This prohibition applies to the Operator and all contractors.

       (2)   An Operator may request a variance pursuant to Rule 502 for a Surface
             Owner to use portions of the Oil and Gas Location, provided such use
             does not interfere with safe operations, access to equipment, Reclamation
             requirements, or emergency response capabilities. Such use cannot
             cause degradation to the site.

       (3)   This prohibition does not apply to emergency response trailers and
             associated equipment staged on an Oil and Gas Location for emergency
             response purposes.

b.     No maintenance of equipment or vehicles is permitted at an Oil and Gas Location
       unless immediately necessary to allow for the continuation of active Oil and Gas
       Operations.

c.     Oil and Gas Locations will be kept free of all Undesirable Plant Species.

d.     Trash.

       (1)   Operators will properly dispose of all trash, rubbish, and other waste
             materials as non-hazardous/non-E&P solid waste, pursuant to Rule 906.c.

       (2)   No trash, waste, rubbish, or other materials will be burned or buried at an
             Oil and Gas Location.




                                                                                      332
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)   All trash, rubbish, and other waste material will be properly contained until
             removed from the Oil and Gas Location. At no time will trash, debris, or
             rubbish be placed or remain on the ground.

             A.     Appropriate Containers are Containers that prevent leakage of
                    Fluids, and are capable of containing waste materials in all weather
                    conditions.

             B.     Appropriate Containers will be designed, maintained, and operated
                    to exclude wildlife.

607.   EQUIPMENT ANCHORING REQUIREMENTS

All equipment at an Oil and Gas Location in a Geologic Hazard area will be anchored.
Anchors will be engineered to support the equipment and to resist flotation, collapse,
lateral movement, or subsidence. Anchoring requirements in Floodplains are governed
by Rule 421.b.(2).

608.   OIL AND GAS FACILITIES

a.     Production Liquid Storage Tanks.

       (1)   Atmospheric Tanks used for produced Fluids storage will be built in
             accordance with the following standards as applicable. Only those editions
             of standards incorporated by reference in Rules 608.a.(1).A–F apply; later
             amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this
             Rule 608.a.(1) are available for public inspection during normal business
             hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
             1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these
             materials are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC
             20005-4070, and from Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., 100 Technology
             Drive, Broomfield, CO 80021.

             A.     Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., No. UL-142, Standard for Steel
                    Above Ground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids, 10th
                    Edition (May 17, 2019);

             B.     API Standard No. 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, 13th
                    Edition (March 2020);

             C.     API Standard No. 12B, Bolted Tanks for Storage of Production
                    Liquids, 16th Edition (November 2014);

             D.     API Standard No. 12D, Field Welded Tanks for Storage of
                    Production Liquids, 12th Edition (June 2017);

             E.     API Standard No. 12F, Shop Welded Tanks for Storage of
                    Production Liquids, 13th Edition (January 2019); or



                                                                                      333
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.     API Standard No. 12P, Specification for Fiberglass Reinforced
                  Plastic Tanks, 4th edition (August 2016), only for produced water.

     (2)   Tanks used for produced Fluids storage will be located at least 2
           diameters from the boundary of the property on which the Tank is built.
           Where the property line is a public right of way, the Tanks will be 2/3 of the
           diameter from the nearest side of the public right of way or easement.

           A.     Tanks with less than 3,000 Barrels capacity will be located at least
                  3 feet apart.

           B.     Tanks with 3,000 or more Barrel capacity will be located at least 1/6
                  the sum of the diameters apart. When the diameter of one Tank is
                  less than 1/2 the diameter of the adjacent Tank, the Tanks will be
                  located at least 1/2 the diameter of the smaller Tank apart.

     (3)   All production Tanks greater than 60 gallons will conform to minimum
           standards of NFPA Code 30, 2018 Edition unless otherwise specified.
           Only the 2018 version of NFPA Code 30 applies to this Rule; later
           amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this
           Rule are available for public inspection during normal business hours from
           the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
           Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials
           are available from the NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA, 02169-
           7471.

     (4)   At the time of installation, Tanks will be a minimum of 200 feet from any
           building.

     (5)   Unless equipped with a fired heater, Tanks will be a minimum of 75 feet
           from a FV or heater-treater (“HT”). No ancillary equipment that has
           potential ignition sources will be installed or used inside the secondary
           containment area.

     (6)   Tanks will be a minimum of 50 feet from a separator, Well test unit, or
           other non-fired equipment. Non-fired vapor recovery towers, transfer
           pumps, vapor line knockouts, and LACT units are exempt from this
           requirement.

     (7)   Tanks will be a minimum of 75 feet from a compressor with a rating of
           greater than or equal to 200 horsepower.

     (8)   Tanks will be a minimum of 75 feet from a wellhead.

     (9)   Gauge hatches on atmospheric Tanks used for crude oil storage will be
           closed, latched, and sealed at all times when not being actively accessed
           by trained personnel. Tanks will function as sealed and ventless with gas




                                                                                     334
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            released only through a vapor control system or properly sized pressure
            relief valve.

     (10)   Tank Venting Standards.

            A.    All Tank Venting systems will be designed, constructed, and
                  operated in accordance with API Standard 2000, Venting
                  Atmospheric and Low Pressure Storage Tanks, 7th edition, March
                  2014. Only the 7th Edition of the API standard applies to this Rule;
                  later amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by
                  reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during
                  normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
                  office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver,
                  CO 80203. In addition, these materials are available from API at
                  1220 L Street, NW Washington, DC 20005-4070.

            B.    Except for individual blowdown lines used to depressurize Tanks
                  prior to opening gauge hatches, vent lines from individual Tanks will
                  be joined and ultimate discharge will be directed away from the
                  loading racks and FV pursuant to API RP 12R-1, Installation,
                  Operation, Maintenance, Inspection, and Repair of Tanks in
                  Production Service, 6th Edition, March 2020. Only the 6th Edition of
                  API RP 12R-1 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply.
                  All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
                  public inspection during normal business hours from the Public
                  Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
                  Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials
                  are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-
                  4070.

            C.    During drilling, completion, production, and storage operations, all
                  sealed Tanks will be designed for a minimum of 4 ounces of
                  backpressure. Vent/back pressure valves, the combustor, lines to
                  the combustor, and knock-outs will be sized and maintained so as
                  to safely accommodate any surge the system may encounter.
                  Operators will properly maintain, and periodically test, Tank seals to
                  ensure that they provide the required back pressure and prevent
                  emissions.

     (11)   During hot oil treatments on Tanks containing 35 degrees or higher API
            gravity oil, hot oil units will be located a minimum of 100 feet from any
            Tank being serviced.

     (12)   Labeling of Tanks. All Tanks and Containers will be labeled pursuant to
            Rule 605.h.




                                                                                    335
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (13)   All open-topped Tanks will be equipped with screens or other appropriate
            equipment to prevent entry by wildlife, including birds and bats.

     (14)   Change in Service. Tanks undergoing change in service will be emptied,
            cleaned, and re-labeled for the new use (if any). Operators will manage all
            waste generated during change in service pursuant to Rule 906.

b.   Fired Vessel, Heater-Treater, and Separation Equipment.

     (1)    Fired vessels (“FV”) including heater-treaters (“HT”) will be minimum of 50
            feet from separators or Well test units.

     (2)    FV-HT will be a minimum of 50 feet from a lease automatic custody
            transfer unit (“LACT”).

     (3)    FV-HT will be a minimum of 40 feet from a pump.

     (4)    FV-HT will be a minimum of 75 feet from a Well.

     (5)    At the time of installation, FV-HT will be a minimum of 200 feet from a
            Residential Building Unit.

     (6)    Vents on pressure safety devices will terminate in a manner so as not to
            endanger the public or adjoining facilities. They will be designed to be
            clear and free of debris and water at all times.

     (7)    All stacks, vents, or other openings will be equipped with screens or other
            appropriate equipment to prevent entry by wildlife, including birds and
            bats.

     (8)    All separation equipment will be designed, constructed and maintained
            according to API Spec 12J, Specification for Oil and Gas Separators, 8th
            edition, October 2008. Only the 8th Edition (2008) of API Spec 12J applies
            to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by
            reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal
            business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
            Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In
            addition, these materials and are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW,
            Washington, DC 20005-4070.

c.   Special Equipment. The Director may require an Operator to employ special
     equipment to protect public safety.

     (1)    All Wells located within 500 feet of a Residential Building Unit will be
            equipped with an automatic isolation valve that will shut the Well in when a
            sudden change of pressure, either a rise or drop, occurs. Automatic
            isolation valves will be designed so they are fail safe.




                                                                                      336
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Isolation valves required by Rule 608.c.(1) will be electronic or activated
           by a secondary gas source supply, and will be inspected at least every 3
           months to ensure the valves are in good working order and that the
           secondary gas supply has volume and pressure sufficient to activate the
           isolation valve.

d.   Static Charge, Lightning, and Stray Current Requirements. All equipment will
     be designed and operated in a manner to prevent accumulation of static charge
     pursuant to API RP 2003, Protection Against Ignitions Arising Out of Static,
     Lightning, and Stray Currents, 8th Edition, September 2015. Only the 8th Edition
     (2015) of API RP 2003 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All
     materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public
     inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at
     the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203.
     In addition, these materials are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW,
     Washington, DC 20005-4070.

e.   Mechanical Conditions. All Production Facilities, valves, pipes, fittings, and
     vessels will be securely fastened or sealed, inspected at regular intervals, and
     maintained in good mechanical condition. All equipment will be engineered,
     operated, and maintained within the manufacturer’s recommended specifications.

f.   Buried or Partially Buried Tanks, Vessels, or Structures.

     (1)   Buried or partially buried Tanks, vessels, or structures used for storage of
           produced Fluids and E&P Waste will be properly designed, constructed,
           installed, and operated in a manner to prevent leaks, contain materials
           safely, and according to manufacturer specifications.

     (2)   Buried or partially buried Tanks, vessels, or structures will be underlain by
           an impermeable synthetic or engineered liner that extends to the surface
           and ties into the secondary containment. In lieu of an impermeable liner,
           double walled Tanks may be used to meet the requirements of this Rule
           608.f.(2).

     (3)   Operators will inspect or test buried or partially buried Tanks, vessels, or
           structures for leaks at least annually. Operators will maintain records
           documenting tests conducted pursuant to this Rule 608.f.(3) for 5 years,
           and provide the records to the Director upon request.

     (4)   If any leaks are detected, Operators will repair or replace the Tank, vessel,
           or structure to prevent future Spills or Releases of E&P Waste. Operators
           will report, investigate, and remediate any Spill or Release pursuant to
           Rules 912 & 913.

g.   Fluid Handling Equipment. Any piece of Fluid handling equipment that is not a
     Tank or Flowline, including temporary equipment, and regardless of the volume
     the equipment is designed to hold, will have either general secondary



                                                                                     337
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       containment around the equipment, or a written Spill contingency plan. The
       written Spill contingency plan will include at least the following standards:

       (1)   A written commitment of manpower, equipment, and materials required to
             expeditiously control and contain all discharged Fluids;

       (2)   A schedule and protocol for periodic visual inspection or testing flow-
             through process vessels and associated components (such as dump
             valves) for leaks, corrosion, or other conditions that could lead to a
             discharge;

       (3)   Procedures for taking corrective action or making repairs to flow-through
             process vessels and any associated components as indicated by regularly
             scheduled visual inspections, tests, or evidence of a discharge; and

       (4)   Procedures for prompt removal, Remediation, and reporting, if required,
             for any accumulations of discharges.

609.   INSPECTIONS

a.     Unless otherwise specified by the Commission’s Rules, Operators will inspect Oil
       and Gas Locations as set forth below. Operators will promptly investigate, and if
       appropriate, repair, replace, or remediate any malfunctioning equipment or
       process. If an Operator takes action to address any malfunctioning equipment or
       process identified during an inspection, the Operator will maintain documentation
       of the action taken, and provide it to the Director upon request. The Operator will
       submit documentation of the results of all Tank system inspections to the Director
       upon request.

b.     Tank and Process Vessel Inspections. All in-service Tanks and process
       vessels will be inspected and maintained pursuant to one of the following
       applicable standards:

       (1)   For Tanks that are built to meet API Standard 650, as incorporated by
             reference in Rule 608.a.(1).B, or are greater than 30 feet in diameter, API
             Standard 653, Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration, and Reconstruction,
             (Fifth Edition, Including Addendum 1 (2018), Addendum 2 (2020), and
             Errata 1 (2020)). Only the fifth edition (2018, including 2020 Addendum 2
             and Errata 1) of API Standard 653 apply; later amendments do not apply.
             All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public
             inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
             Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
             801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials are available from
             API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070.

       (2)   For all other Tanks, either:




                                                                                       338
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     API Standard 12R1, Recommended Practice for Setting,
                  Maintenance, Inspection, Operation, and Repair of Tanks in
                  Production Service (6th edition March 2020). Only the 6th edition
                  (March 2020) of API Standard 12R1 applies; later amendments do
                  not apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are
                  available for public inspection during normal business hours from
                  the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
                  1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition,
                  these materials are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW,
                  Washington, DC 20005-4070; or

           B.     Steel Tank Institute (“STI”) SP001, Standard for the Inspection of
                  Aboveground Storage Tanks (January 2018). Only the January
                  2018 version of STI SP001 applies; later amendments do not apply.
                  All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
                  public inspection during normal business hours from the Public
                  Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
                  Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials
                  are available from STI, 944 Donata Court, Lake Zurich, IL 60047.

     (3)   For process vessels, API Standard 510, Pressure Vessel Inspector (10th
           edition May 2014). Only the 10th Edition (May 2014) of API Standard 510
           applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. API Standard 510 is
           available for public inspection during normal business hours from the
           Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
           Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials may be
           examined at any state publications depository library and is available from
           API at 1220 L Street, NW Washington, DC 20005-4070.

c.   Out of Service Tanks and Process Vessels. Out of service Tanks and process
     vessels are not subject to the inspection standards in Rule 609.b. Operators will:

     (1)   Isolate or disconnect the Tank or process vessel from sources of oil,
           condensate, produced water, or natural gas;

     (2)   Depressurize and evacuate all hydrocarbons and produced water from the
           Tank or process vessel and test the interior of the Tank or process vessel
           to show that it is safe for designated entry, cleaning, or repair work.;

     (3)   Apply OOSLAT; and

     (4)   Equip any openings in the Tank or process vessel with screens or other
           appropriate equipment to prevent entry by wildlife, including birds and
           bats.

d.   Audio Visual Olfactory Inspections. Operators will conduct Audio, Visual,
     Olfactory (“AVO”) inspections of all Oil and Gas Facilities, at the same inspection
     frequency required by the Air Quality Control Commission Regulation 7, 5 C.C.R.



                                                                                    339
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       §§ 1001-9:D.I.E.2.c.viii–ix & 1001-9:D:II.C.1.d (2021) (“AQCC Regulation 7”).
       Only the version of the AQCC Regulation 7 in effect as of January 15, 2021
       applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All materials incorporated by
       reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal business
       hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
       Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, AQCC Regulation 7 is
       available from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300
       Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is available online at
       https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/aqcc-regs. When performing an AVO
       inspection, an Operator will survey the Oil and Gas Facility using audio, visual,
       and olfactory techniques to detect failures, leaks, Spills, or Releases, or signs of
       a leak, Spill, or Release.

610.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION

a.     Gasoline-fueled engines will be shut down during fueling operations.

b.     Operators will comply with all Division of Oil and Public Safety regulations during
       handling, connecting, and transfer operations involving liquefied petroleum gas
       (“LPG”), 7 C.C.R. § 1101-15, et seq. Only the version of the Division of Oil and
       Public Safety’s LPG Regulations, 7 C.C.R. § 1101-15, et seq. in effect as of
       January 15, 2021 apply to this Rule; later versions do not apply. All materials
       incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during
       normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
       Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition,
       these materials are from the Division of Oil and Public Safety, 633 17th St., Suite
       500, Denver, CO 80202, and are available online at
       https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/ops/RegulationsStatutes.

c.     Flammable liquids storage areas within any building or shed will:

       (1)    Be adequately vented to the outside air;

       (2)    Have 2 unobstructed exits leading from the building in different directions
              if the building is in excess of 500 square feet;

       (3)    Be maintained with due regard to fire potential with respect to
              housekeeping and materials storage; and

       (4)    Be identified as a hazard and appropriate warning signs posted.

d.     Flammable liquids will not be stored within 50 feet of the wellbore, except for the
       fuel in the tanks of operating equipment or supply for injection pumps.

e.     LPG Tanks larger than 250 gallons and used for heating purposes will be placed
       as far as practicable from and parallel to the adjacent side of the rig or wellbore
       as terrain and location configuration permit. Installation will be consistent with
       provisions of NFPA Code 58, Liquid Petroleum Gas Code (2020 edition). Only



                                                                                       340
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     the 2020 edition of NFPA Code 58 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not
     apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public
     inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at
     the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203.
     In addition, these materials are available from the NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park,
     Quincy, MA, 02169-7471.

f.   Smoking is prohibited within 150 feet of the wellbore, on any drilling or workover
     site, at an Oil and Gas Location with a producing Well or a Well that is
     undergoing Hydraulic Fracturing Treatment or Flowback, or in the vicinity of
     operations which constitute a fire hazard. Such locations will be conspicuously
     posted with a sign, “No Smoking or Open Flame.”

g.   No matches, smoking equipment, or source of ignition will be carried into “No
     Smoking or Open Flame” areas.

h.   Open fires, transformers, or other sources of ignition will be permitted only in
     designated areas located at a safe distance from the wellhead or flammable
     liquid storage areas or areas with potential for ignition of gas or vapors.

i.   Only approved heaters for Class I Division 2 areas, as designated by API RP
     500, Recommended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical
     Installations at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Division I and Division
     2, 3rd Edition (including January 2014 errata), will be permitted on an Oil and Gas
     Location or near Oil and Gas Facilities. The safety features of these heaters will
     not be altered. Only the 3rd edition, including January 2014 errata, of API RP 500
     applies to this Rule; later editions do not apply. All materials incorporated by
     reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during normal business
     hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
     Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials are
     available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070.

j.   Combustible materials such as oily rags and waste will be stored in covered
     metal Containers.

k.   Control of Fire Hazards. Any material not in use that might constitute a fire
     hazard will be removed a minimum of 25 feet from the wellhead(s), Tanks, and
     separator(s). Any electrical equipment installations inside the secondary
     containment areas will comply with API RP 500 classifications and comply with
     the current national electrical code as adopted by the State of Colorado. Only the
     3rd edition (including January 2014 errata) of API RP 500 applies to this Rule;
     later amendments do not apply. API RP 500 and Colorado’s current national
     electrical code are available for public inspection during normal business hours
     from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
     Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials are
     available from API, 1220 L Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070, and from




                                                                                        341
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       the Department of Regulatory Agencies, Colorado Electrical Board at 1560
       Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, CO 80202.

l.     Material used for cleaning will have a flash point of not less than 100 degrees
       Fahrenheit. For limited special purposes, a lower flash point cleaner may be used
       when it is specifically required and will be handled with extreme care.

m.     Firefighting equipment will not be tampered with and will not be removed other
       than for fire protection and firefighting purposes and services. A firefighting water
       system may be used for wash down and other utility purposes so long as its
       firefighting capability is not compromised. After use, water systems will be
       properly drained or properly protected from freezing.

n.     An adequate amount of fire extinguishers and other firefighting equipment will be
       suitably located, readily accessible, and plainly labeled as to their type and
       method of operation.

o.     Fire protection equipment will be periodically inspected, and maintained in good
       operating condition at all times.

p.     Firefighting equipment will be readily available near all welding operations. When
       welding, cutting, or other hot work is performed a person will be designated as a
       fire watch. The area surrounding the work will be inspected at least 1 hour after
       the hot work is completed.

q.     Portable fire extinguishers will be tagged showing the date of last inspection,
       maintenance, or recharge. Inspection and maintenance procedures will comply
       with NFPA Code 10, Standards for Portable Fire Extinguishers (2018). Only the
       2018 Edition of NFPA Code 10 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not
       apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for public
       inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at
       the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203.
       In addition, these materials are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park,
       Quincy, MA, 02169.

r.     All employees, contractors, and subcontractors will be shown the location of fire
       control equipment including, but not limited to Fluid guns, water hoses, and fire
       extinguishers, and trained in the use of such equipment. They will also be familiar
       with the procedure for requesting emergency assistance as terrain and location
       configuration permit.

611.   AIR AND GAS DRILLING

a.     Drilling compressors (air or gas) will be located at least 125 feet from the
       wellbore and in a direction away from the air or gas discharge line.




                                                                                        342
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.     The air or gas discharge line will be laid in as nearly a straight line as possible
       from the wellbore and be a minimum of 150 feet in length. The line will be
       securely anchored.

c.     A pilot flame will be maintained at the end of the air or gas discharge line at all
       times when air, gas, or mist drilling, or Well testing is in progress.

d.     All combustible material will be kept at least 100 feet away from the air and gas
       discharge line and Flare Pit.

e.     The air line from the compressors to the standpipe will be of adequate strength to
       withstand at least the maximum discharge pressure of the compressors used,
       and will be checked daily for any evidence of damage or weakness.

612.   HYDROGEN SULFIDE GAS

a.     General.

       (1)    Operators will avoid any uncontrolled release or hazardous accumulation
              of hydrogen sulfide (“H2S”) gas. If releases or hazardous accumulations of
              H2S cannot be avoided, or during upset conditions or malfunctions,
              Operators will employ mitigation measures to reduce potential harms to
              safety.

       (2)    Scope. To protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety,
              welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, Operators will comply
              with this Rule 612 where oil and gas exploration and production occurs in
              areas known or reasonably expected to contain H2S.

b.     Radius of Exposure Calculation. When an Operator is conducting drilling,
       workover, completion, or production operations in a geologic zone where the
       Operator knows or reasonably expects to encounter, or a laboratory gas analysis
       detects, H2S in the gas stream at concentrations at or above 100 parts per million
       (“ppm”), the Operator will calculate the radius of exposure to any Building Unit,
       High Occupancy Building Unit, or Designated Outside Activity Area.

       (1)    Radius of exposure will be calculated pursuant to Bureau of Land
              Management (“BLM”) Onshore Order No. 6 (Jan. 22, 1991). Only the 1991
              version of Onshore Order 6 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not
              apply. All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
              public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
              Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
              801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials are available from the
              BLM Colorado State Office, 2850 Youngfield St., Lakewood, CO 80215,
              and are available online at
              https://www.blm.gov/sites/blm.gov/files/energy_onshoreorder6.pdf.




                                                                                         343
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   If insufficient data exists to calculate a radius of exposure, the Operator
           will assume the radius of exposure is 3,000 feet.

     (3)   Operators will perform gas stream laboratory analysis if any concentration
           of H2S of 20 ppm or greater is detected by using field measurement
           devices during drilling, completion, or production operations. Operators
           will report any gas stream laboratory analysis greater than 1 ppm H2S to
           the Director and the Relevant and Proximate Local Government(s). If the
           Operator ever detects H2S concentrations greater than 1 ppm, the
           Operator will repeat gas stream laboratory analysis annually.

c.   H2S Public Protection Plan. A public protection plan is required if:

     (1)   The 100 ppm radius of exposure is greater than 50 feet and there is a
           Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, or Designated Outside
           Activity Area within the radius of exposure;

     (2)   The 100 ppm radius of exposure is equal to or greater than 3,000 feet and
           includes any publicly-maintained road; or

     (3)   The Director determines that a public protection plan is necessary to
           protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, or wildlife resources.

d.   H2S Drilling Operations Plan.

     (1)   When proposing to drill a Well in areas where H2S gas can reasonably be
           expected to be encountered, Operators will submit a H2S drilling
           operations plan with their Form 2, unless the plan was already submitted
           with their Form 2A, pursuant to Rule 304.c.(10).

     (2)   Operators will prepare the H2S drilling operations plan pursuant to BLM
           Onshore Order No. 6, as incorporated by reference in Rule 612.b.(1).

e.   Designated H2S Locations. If an Operator ever measures H2S gas stream
     concentrations of 100 ppm or greater at a Well, the Well is a designated H2S
     location. All designated H2S locations will be designed and operated in
     accordance with BLM Onshore Order No. 6, as incorporated by reference in Rule
     612.b.(1). Designated H2S locations will have:

     (1)   Signs indicating the presence of H2S not less than 200 feet or more than
           500 feet from the entrance of the location;

     (2)   H2S monitoring with audible and visible alarms at 10 ppm of H2S;

     (3)   At least one wind indicator; and

     (4)   With landowner approval, adequate fencing.



                                                                                     344
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.   Operations in Designated H2S Locations.

     (1)   In a designated H2S location, Operators will employ a secondary means of
           immediate Well control at all Wells that are known to have H2S through
           use of a christmas tree or downhole completion equipment. The
           equipment will allow downhole accessibility (reentry) under pressure for
           permanent Well control. When the presence of H2S is detected during
           drilling in formations not tested, completed, or produced, the Operator will
           report depth intervals, concentrations measured at surface or within
           drilling Fluid, and the control measures used.

     (2)   At Oil and Gas Locations producing gas with greater than 100 ppm H2S,
           Operators will monitor all storage Tanks. Any headspace field
           measurement or laboratory analysis greater than 500 ppm H2S, or 10 ppm
           H2S in ambient air, will require mitigation measures to control and
           minimize accumulation within the storage Tank.

     (3)   All operations at an Oil and Gas Location with potential H2S
           concentrations greater than 100 ppm will:

           A.    Use equipment that can withstand the effects and stress of H2S;

           B.    Be conducted pursuant to American National Standards Institute
                 (“ANSI”)/National Association of Corrosion Engineers (“NACE”)
                 Standard MR0175/ISO 15156-2015-SG, Petroleum and natural gas
                 industries – Materials for use in H2S-containing environments in oil
                 and gas production (2015), or some other Director approved
                 standard for selection of metallic equipment. Only the 2015 version
                 of ANSI/NACE Standard MR0175/ISO 15156-2015-SG applies to
                 this Rule; later amendments do not apply. All material incorporated
                 by reference in this Rule are available for public inspection during
                 normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
                 office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver,
                 CO 80203. In addition, these materials are available from NACE
                 International, 15835 Park Ten Pl, Houston, TX 77084; and

           C.    If applicable, use adequate protection by chemical inhibition or such
                 other methods that control or limit H2S’s corrosive effects.

     (4)   Operators in designated H2S locations will conduct a laboratory analysis of
           the gas stream for H2S at least monthly. If the H2S concentration
           increases by greater than 25%, the Operator will recalculate the radius of
           exposure and notify the Director and the Relevant and Proximate Local
           Government(s).

g.   Operator Reports of H2S.




                                                                                   345
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)   Operators will report on a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of
             H2S on an Oil and Gas Location any laboratory analysis indicating the
             presence of H2S gas to the Director within 48 hours. Upon receipt of the
             Form 42, the Director will notify the Relevant and Proximate Local
             Government(s).

       (2)   If a laboratory analysis indicates any concentrations of H2S gas greater
             than 100 ppm in the gas stream, or headspace field measurement or
             laboratory analysis greater than 500 ppm H2S, or 10 ppm H2S in ambient
             air, the Operator will report such findings to the Director on a Form 4,
             including the information required in Rules 612.b–d, as applicable, within
             45 days.

h.      Unless deemed an immediate operational need for safety reasons and the
       release does not pose a risk to public safety, Operators may only intentionally
       release H2S gas with prior Director approval of a Form 4. The Form 4 will include
       a proposed air monitoring plan for H2S. If combustion or Flaring is proposed, the
       air monitoring plan will include a SO2 by-product detection plan.

i.     If an intentional release of H2S gas occurs due to Upset Conditions or
       malfunctions, the Operator will notify the Director, the Relevant and Proximate
       Local Government(s), and the local emergency response agency orally within 24
       hours, followed by the filing of a Form 4 within 5 days.

j.     All H2S monitoring, mitigation, and safety equipment will be maintained and
       functioning in good working order at all times.

k.     Temporary Abandonment of a H2S Well.

       (1)   Prior to temporarily abandoning a Well with potential concentrations of
             greater than 100 ppm H2S in its gas stream, the Operator will file a Form
             4, Notice of Temporarily Abandoned Status to obtain the Director’s
             approval.

       (2)   Operators will install a cast iron bridge plug and maintain H2S monitoring
             and telemetry equipment when temporarily abandoning a Well with
             potential concentrations of greater than 100 ppm H2S in its gas stream.

613.   GRADE 1 GAS LEAK REPORTING

An Operator will initially report to the Director a Grade 1 Gas Leak from a Flowline
pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1).D and will submit the Form 19, Spill/Release Report
document number on the Form 44, Flowline Report for the Grade 1 Gas Leak.

614.   COALBED METHANE WELLS

a.     Assessment and Monitoring of Plugged and Abandoned Wells Within 1/4
       mile of Proposed Coalbed Methane Well.



                                                                                       346
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Based upon examination of Commission and other publicly available
           records, Operators will identify all Plugged and Abandoned Wells located
           within 1/4 mile of a proposed coalbed methane (“CBM”) Well. The
           Operator will assess the risk of leaking gas or water to the ground surface
           or into subsurface water resources, taking into account plugging and
           cementing procedures described in any recompletion or Plug and
           Abandonment report filed with the Commission. The Operator will notify
           the Director of the results of the assessment of the plugging and
           cementing procedures. The Director will review the assessment and take
           appropriate action to pursue further investigation and Remediation if
           warranted and pursuant to the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation and
           Environmental Response Fund.

     (2)   Operators will conduct a soil gas survey at all Plugged and Abandoned
           Wells located within 1/4 mile of a proposed CBM Well prior to production
           from the proposed CBM Well and again 1 year and thereafter every 3
           years after production has commenced. Operators will submit the results
           of the soil gas survey to the Director within 3 months of conducting the
           survey.

b.   Coal Outcrop and Coal Mine Monitoring.

     (1)   If the CBM Well is within 2 miles of the outcrop of the stratigraphic contact
           between the coal-bearing formation and the underlying formation, or within
           2 miles of an active, inactive, or abandoned coal mine, then prior to drilling
           the CBM Well, the Operator will determine whether there are gas seeps,
           springs, or water seeps that discharge from the coal-bearing formation in
           the area by:

           A.     Making a good faith effort to obtain the access necessary to survey
                  the outcrop or mine;

           B.     Reviewing publicly available geologic and hydrogeologic data; and

           C.     Interviewing the Surface Owner(s).

     (2)   If a gas seep is identified during the survey, then the Operator will survey
           its location and areal extent pursuant to Rule 216, and determine the
           concentration of the soil gas. If possible, the Operator will collect a sample
           of gas from the seep for compositional analysis and stable isotope
           analysis of the gas pursuant to 615.e.(4). Thereafter, the Operator will
           inspect the gas seep, survey its areal extent, and measure soil gas
           concentrations annually, if access can be obtained. Within 3 months of its
           completion of the field work, the Operator will submit the results of the
           outcrop or mine monitoring to the Director in an electronic data deliverable
           format via a Form 43, Analytical Sample Submittal and, if necessary, via a




                                                                                     347
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            Form 4. The Operator will concurrently provide the same information to
            the Surface Owner.

     (3)    If a spring or water seep is identified during the survey, then the Operator
            will survey its location and areal extent pursuant to Rule 216, measure the
            flow rate, photograph the feature, and collect and analyze a water sample
            pursuant to Rule 615.e. Thereafter, the Operator will inspect the spring or
            water seep, survey its areal extent, and measure its flow rate annually, if
            access can be obtained. Within 3 months of its completion of the field
            work, the Operator will submit the results of the outcrop or mine
            monitoring to the Director in an electronic data deliverable format via a
            Form 43 and, if necessary, via a Form 4. The Operator will concurrently
            provide the same information to the Surface Owner.

     (4)    If a gas seep is identified during the survey, the Director will advise the
            Surface Owner(s), Relevant Local Government, Colorado Geological
            Survey (“CGS”), and the Colorado Division of Reclamation, Mining, and
            Safety (“DRMS”), as appropriate, of the findings. In collaboration with
            state, local, and private interests, the CGS, DRMS, and the Commission
            may elect to develop a Geologic Hazard survey and determine whether
            the area should be recommended to be designated as a Geologic Hazard
            pursuant to § 24-65.1-103, C.R.S.

c.   Prior to Producing – Static Bottom-Hole Pressure Survey. Prior to producing
     the Well, the Operator will obtain a static bottom-hole pressure test on at least
     the first Well drilled on a government quarter section. The survey will be
     conducted by either a direct static bottom-hole pressure measurement or by a
     static Fluid level measurement. The data acquired by the Operator and a
     description of the procedures used to gather the data will be reported on a Form
     13, Bottom Hole Pressure, and submitted with the Form 5A, Completed Interval
     Report, filed with the Director. After reviewing the quality of the static bottom-hole
     pressure data and the adequacy of the geographic distribution of the data, or at
     the request of the Operator, the Director may vary the number of Wells subject to
     the static bottom-hole pressure survey requirement. If an application for
     increased Well density or down spacing is filed with the Commission, then
     additional testing may be required.

d.   CBM Monitoring. If a conventional gas Well or Plugged and Abandoned Well
     exists within 1/4 mile of a proposed CBM Well, then in addition to the water
     sources described in Rule 615.b, the 2 closest water wells within a 1/2 mile
     radius of the conventional gas Well or the Plugged and Abandoned Well will be
     sampled pursuant to Rules 615.c–f.

     (1)    If possible, the water wells selected should be on opposite sides of the
            conventional gas Well or the Plugged and Abandoned Well not exceeding
            a 1/2 mile radius. If water wells on opposite sides of the conventional gas
            Well or the Plugged and Abandoned Well cannot be identified, then the 2



                                                                                       348
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             closest wells within a 1/2 mile radius of the conventional gas Well or the
             Plugged and Abandoned Well will be sampled.

       (2)   If 2 or more conventional Wells or Plugged and Abandoned Wells are
             located within 1/4 mile of the proposed CBM Well, then the conventional
             Well or the Plugged and Abandoned Well closest to a proposed CBM Well
             will be used for selecting water wells for sampling.

       (3)   If there are no conventional gas Wells or Plugged and Abandoned Wells
             located within a 1/4 mile radius of the proposed CBM Well this Rule 614.d
             will not apply.

e.     Bradenhead Testing. An Operator of a CBM Well will comply with Rule 419,
       except as modified by this Rule 614.e. The appropriate regulatory agency will
       determine remedial requirements. The bradenhead testing requirement will not
       apply if the Operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director annular
       cement coverage greater than 50 feet above the base of surface casing and
       zonal isolation is confirmed by reliable evidence such as a cement bond log or
       cementing ticket indicating that the height of cement coverage is 50 feet above
       the base of the surface casing, and zonal isolation is confirmed by two
       consecutive bradenhead tests that the Operator conducts at least 12 months
       apart. Before beginning a bradenhead test, the Operator will shut-in the
       bradenhead annulus for a minimum shut-in period of 7 days.

615.   GROUNDWATER BASELINE SAMPLING AND MONITORING

a.     Applicability and Effective Date.

       (1)   This Rule applies to oil Wells, gas Wells (“Oil and Gas Wells”), Multi-Well
             Sites, and Class II UIC Wells for which a Form 2, or Form 4, Notice to
             Recomplete, is submitted or pending on or after January 15, 2021. Oil and
             Gas Wells, Multi-Well Sites, and Class II UIC Wells operating under a
             Form 2 approved prior to January 15, 2021, will continue to follow the
             sampling protocols required by their permits at the time that the Form 2
             was approved.

       (2)   Nothing in this Rule 615 is intended, and will not be construed, to preclude
             or limit the Director from requiring Groundwater sampling or monitoring at
             other Production Facilities consistent with other applicable Commission
             Rules, including but not limited to the oil and gas location assessment
             process, and other processes in place pursuant to the Commission’s 900
             Series Rules (Form 15, Earthen Pit Report/Permit, Form 27, Site
             Investigation and Remediation Workplan, and Form 28, Centralized E&P
             Waste Management Facility Permit).

       (3)   An Operator may elect, or the Director may require an Operator to install
             one or more Groundwater monitoring wells to satisfy, in full or in part, the




                                                                                      349
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           requirements of Rule 615.b, but installation of monitoring wells is not
           required under this Rule 615.

b.   Sampling Locations. Initial baseline samples and subsequent monitoring
     samples will be collected from all Available Water Sources, up to a maximum of
     4, within a 1/2 mile radius of a proposed Oil and Gas Well, Multi-Well Site, or
     Class II UIC Well. If more than 4 Available Water Sources are present within a
     1/2 mile radius of a proposed Oil and Gas Well, Multi-Well Site, or Class II UIC
     Well, the Operator will select the 4 sampling locations based on the following
     criteria:

     (1)   Proximity. Available Water Sources closest to the proposed Oil and Gas
           Well, Multi-Well Site, or Class II UIC Well are required.

     (2)   Type of Water Source. Well-maintained domestic water wells are
           required over other Available Water Sources.

     (3)   Orientation of Sampling Locations. To the extent Groundwater flow
           direction is known or reasonably can be inferred, sample locations from
           both down-gradient and up-gradient are preferred over cross-gradient
           locations. Where Groundwater flow direction is uncertain, sample
           locations should be chosen in a radial pattern from a proposed Oil and
           Gas Well, Multi-Well Site, or Class II UIC Well.

     (4)   Multiple Identified Aquifers Available. Where multiple defined Aquifers
           are present, sampling the deepest and shallowest identified Aquifers is
           required.

     (5)   Condition of Water Source. An Operator is not required to sample Water
           Sources that are determined to be improperly maintained, nonoperational,
           or have other physical impediments to sampling that would not allow for a
           representative sample to be safely collected or would require specialized
           sampling equipment (e.g., Shut-In Wells, wells with confined space issues,
           wells with no tap or pump, non-functioning wells, intermittent springs).

c.   Inability to Locate an Available Water Source. Prior to spudding, an Operator
     may request an exception from the requirements of this Rule 615 by filing a Form
     4 for the Director’s review and approval if:

     (1)   No Available Water Sources are located within 1/2 mile of a proposed Oil
           and Gas Well, Multi-Well Site, or Class II UIC Well;

     (2)   The only Available Water Sources are determined to be unsuitable
           pursuant to Rule 615.b.(5). An Operator seeking an exception on this
           ground will document the condition of the Available Water Sources it has
           deemed unsuitable; or




                                                                                     350
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   The owners of all Water Sources suitable for testing under this Rule refuse
           to grant access despite an Operator’s reasonable, good faith efforts to
           obtain consent to conduct sampling. An Operator seeking an exception
           pursuant to this Rule 615.c.(3) will document the efforts used to obtain
           access from the owners of suitable Water Sources.

     (4)   If the Director takes no action on the Form 4 within 10 business days of
           receipt, the requested exception from the requirements of this Rule 615.c
           will be deemed approved.

d.   Timing of Sampling.

     (1)   Initial sampling will be conducted within 12 months prior to setting
           conductor pipe in a Well or if no conductor is present prior to spudding the
           first Well on a Multi-Well Site, or commencement of drilling a Class II UIC
           Well.

     (2)   Subsequent Monitoring. One subsequent sampling event will be
           conducted at the initial sample locations between 6 and 12 months, and a
           second subsequent sampling event will be conducted between 60 and 72
           months following completion of the Well or Class II UIC Well, or the last
           Well on a Multi-Well Site. Additional subsequent samples will be collected
           every 5 years (57 to 63 month interval) for the life of the Well. A post
           abandonment sample will be collected 6 to 12 months after the Oil and
           Gas Well has been Plugged and Abandoned. Wells that are drilled and
           abandoned without ever producing hydrocarbons are exempt from
           subsequent monitoring sampling under this Rule 615.d.(2).

     (3)   Previously Sampled Water Sources. In lieu of conducting the initial
           sampling required pursuant to Rule 615.d.(1), or the second subsequent
           sampling event required pursuant to Rule 615.d.(2), an Operator may rely
           on water sampling analytical results obtained from an Available Water
           Source within the sampling area provided:

           A.    The previous water sample was obtained within the 18 months
                 preceding the initial sampling event required pursuant to Rule
                 615.d.(1), or any subsequent sampling event required pursuant to
                 Rule 615.d.(2);

           B.    The sampling procedures, including the constituents sampled for,
                 and the analytical procedures used for the previous water sample
                 were substantially similar to those required pursuant to Rules
                 615.e.(1) & (2), below; and

           C.    The Director timely received the analytical data from the previous
                 sampling event.




                                                                                   351
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   The Director may require additional sampling at any time as a result of
           information indicating a potential change in or impact to groundwater.

e.   Sampling Procedures and Analysis.

     (1)   Sampling and analysis will be conducted in conformance with an accepted
           industry standard pursuant to Rule 913.b.(2). A model Sampling and
           Analysis Plan (“COGCC Model SAP”) will be posted on the Commission’s
           website, and will be updated periodically to remain current with evolving
           industry standards. Sampling and analysis conducted in conformance with
           the COGCC Model SAP will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this
           Rule 615.e.(1). Upon request, an Operator will provide its sampling
           protocol to the Director.

     (2)   The analyses for samples collected as required by Rule 615 will include:

           A.    pH;

           B.    Specific conductance;

           C.    Total dissolved solids (“TDS”);

           D.    Dissolved gases (methane, ethane, and propane);

           E.    Alkalinity (total, bicarbonate, and carbonate as CaCO3);

           F.    Major anions (bromide, chloride, fluoride, sulfate, nitrate and nitrite
                 as N, and phosphorus);

           G.    Major cations (calcium, iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium,
                 and sodium);

           H.    Other elements (barium, boron, selenium, and strontium);

           I.    Presence of bacteria (iron related, sulfate reducing, and slime
                 forming);

           J.    Total petroleum hydrocarbons (“TPH”) as total volatile
                 hydrocarbons (C6 to C10) and total extractable hydrocarbons (C10 to
                 C36); and

           K.    BTEX compounds (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes
                 (“BTEX”)).

     (3)   Field observations such as odor, water color, sediment, bubbles, and
           effervescence as well as the presence or absence of H2S gas will be
           documented. The location of the sampled Water Sources will be surveyed
           pursuant to Rule 216.




                                                                                     352
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Dissolved Gas Detections. If a free or dissolved gas (methane, ethane,
           or propane) concentration greater than 1.0 milligram per liter (“mg/l”) is
           detected in a water sample, gas compositional analysis and stable isotope
           analysis of the gas will be performed to determine gas type.

           A.    The compositional analysis should include:

                 i.      hydrogen;

                 ii.     argon;

                 iii.    oxygen;

                 iv.     carbon dioxide;

                 v.      nitrogen;

                 vi.     methane (C1);

                 vii.    ethane (C2);

                 viii.   ethene (C2H4);

                 ix.     propane (nC3);

                 x.      isobutane (iC4);

                 xi.     butane (nC4);

                 xii.    isopentane (iC5);

                 xiii.   pentane (nC5);

                 xiv.    hexanes +;

                 xv.     Specific gravity; and

                 xvi.    British Thermal Units (BTU).

           B.    Stable isotope analyses should include:

                 i.      delta D of C1;

                 ii.     delta 13C ofC1;

                 iii.    delta 13C of C2;

                 iv.     delta 13C of C3;




                                                                                 353
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  v.      delta 13C of iC4 (if available);

                  vi.     delta 13C of nC4 (if available);

                  vii.    delta 13C of iC5 (if available);

                  viii.   delta 13C of nC5 (if available); and

                  ix.     delta 13C of CO2.

           C.     The Operator will notify the Director by submitting a Form 42, Field
                  Operations Notice – Water Sample Reporting, with a copy sent to
                  the owner of the water well immediately if:

                  i.      The test results indicated thermogenic or a mixture of
                          thermogenic and biogenic gas;

                  ii.     The methane concentration increases by more than 5.0 mg/l
                          between sampling periods; or

                  iii.    The methane concentration is detected at or above 10 mg/l.

           D.     The Operator will notify the Director immediately by Form 42 –
                  Water Sample Report and provide a copy of the Form 42 – Water
                  Sample Report and the test results to the water well owner, if BTEX
                  compounds or TPH are detected in a water sample.

f.   Sampling Results. Copies of all final laboratory analytical results will be
     provided to the Director and the water well owner or landowner within 3 months
     of collecting the samples. The analytical results including PDF of lab results, the
     surveyed sample Water Source locations, and the field observations will be
     submitted to the Director in an electronic data deliverable format approved by the
     Director along with a PDF of the lab report via Form 43.

     (1)   The Director will make such analytical results publicly available by posting
           on the Commission’s website or through another means announced to the
           public.

g.   Upon request, the Director will also make the analytical results and surveyed
     Water Source locations available to the Local Government of the jurisdiction in
     which the groundwater samples were collected, in the same electronic data
     deliverable format.




                                                                                    354
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

616. REQUIREMENTS FOR WELLS DRILLED THROUGH OR ADJACENT TO A
GEOLOGIC STORAGE FACILITY

a.   Applicability. An Energy and Carbon Management Operator that proposes to
     drill a Well within the Geologic Storage Area of Review of a Geologic Storage
     Facility will comply with this Rule 616.

     (1)   The Director may impose the requirements of this Rule 616, on a site-
           specific basis, for Wells drilled within ½ mile from the Geologic Storage
           Area of Review of a Geologic Storage Facility if the Director determines
           such requirements are necessary and reasonable to avoid, minimize, and
           mitigate adverse impacts to the Geologic Storage Facility or protect public
           health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

b.   Prior to approval of an Oil and Gas Development Plan, a Class VI Development
     Plan, or a Form 2 for a Well not subject to an Oil and Gas Development Plan or
     Class VI Development Plan, an Energy and Carbon Management Operator
     proposing to drill a Well within the Geologic Storage Area of Review of a
     Geologic Storage Facility will:

     (1)   Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission or Director, as
           applicable, that the proposed Energy and Carbon Management
           Operations will not cause reasonably foreseeable adverse impacts to the
           integrity of a Geologic Storage Facility;

     (2)   Commit to drilling and operational requirements determined by the
           Commission or Director, as applicable, to be necessary and reasonable to
           avoid reasonably foreseeable adverse impacts to the Geologic Storage
           Facility and USDWs, including:

           A.     When drilling through the Injection Zone, or when drilling through
                  the Confining Zone within the Geologic Storage Area of Review, the
                  Energy and Carbon Management Operator will use appropriate
                  Pressure and drilling Fluid compatible with the Carbon Dioxide
                  Stream and Formation Fluids;

           B.     The Energy and Carbon Management Operator will follow Well
                  construction standards sufficient to avoid adverse impacts to public
                  health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources,
                  including adverse impacts to the integrity of the Geologic Storage
                  Facility, including the use of materials compatible with the Carbon
                  Dioxide Stream and Formation Fluids;

           C.     The Energy and Carbon Management Operator will conduct drilling
                  and completions in a manner that does not create a conduit for fluid
                  migration out of the Geologic Storage Facility;




                                                                                   355
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.     The Energy and Carbon Management Operator will maintain the
                  Well in a manner that protects the stratum or formation at all times
                  from Injection Carbon Dioxide migration;

           E.     The Energy and Carbon Management Operator will follow Well
                  closure requirements sufficient to avoid adverse impacts to public
                  health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources,
                  including adverse impacts to the integrity of the Geologic Storage
                  Facility.

                  i.     When the Well is Plugged and Abandoned, the Energy and
                         Carbon Management Operator will ensure that the plugging
                         eliminates the wellbore as a conduit for flow of Injection
                         Carbon Dioxide out of the Injection Zone.

     (3)   Provide notice to the Geologic Storage Operator of the Geologic Storage
           Facility.

           A.     For operations proposed in or subject to an Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan, the Operator will notify the Geologic Storage
                  Operator of the proposed operations pursuant to Rules 303.d.(2)
                  and 303.e.

           B.     For operations proposed in or subject to a Class VI Development
                  Plan, the Energy and Carbon Management Operator will notify the
                  Geologic Storage Operator of the proposed operations pursuant to
                  Rule 1406.

           C.     For Operations not proposed in or subject to an Oil and Gas
                  Development Plan or Class VI Development Plan, the Energy and
                  Carbon Management Operator will notify the Geologic Storage
                  Operator of the proposed operations in writing no less than 30 days
                  prior to submitting an application for a Form 2.

     (4)   Engage in a Formal Consultation Process with the Geologic Storage
           Operator and the Director.

c.   If a Geologic Storage Operator becomes aware of a new or previously unknown
     well within the Geologic Storage Area of Review, the Geologic Storage Operator
     will review and determine whether the well has an impact on the Geologic
     Storage Facility. If an adverse impact is determined to be present, the Operator
     will report the adverse impact to the Director and take appropriate Class VI
     Corrective Action as required and approved by the Director.




                                                                                   356
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


700 SERIES FINANCIAL ASSURANCE

701.   TYPES OF FINANCIAL ASSURANCE

a.     Preferred Types of Financial Assurance. To demonstrate its capacity to
       perform all of its obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules, each
       Operator will provide the Commission with the following types of Financial
       Assurance:

       (1)   A Cash Bond; or

       (2)   A Surety Bond.

b.     Alternative Types of Financial Assurance. An Operator may request a hearing
       pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) to obtain the Commission’s approval to provide a
       type of Financial Assurance explicitly authorized by § 34-60-106(13)(a)–(f),
       C.R.S.

       (1)   Proving Equivalency. If an Operator seeks the Commission’s approval of
             a lien, Letter of Credit, security interest, escrow account, sinking fund,
             Third-Party Trust Fund, or other financial instrument that is not a Cash
             Bond or Surety Bond, the Operator will prove that the proposed type of
             Financial Assurance is equivalent to a Cash Bond or Surety Bond.

       (2)   Self-Bonding Strongly Disfavored. Unless the Operator is a Local
             Government, the Commission will presumptively not accept a guarantee of
             performance based on an Operator’s demonstration of sufficient net worth
             unless the Operator proves, through a personal guarantee of a corporate
             officer, on an annual basis:

             A.     Audited Financial Statements. Its current net worth, as
                    demonstrated through financial statements accompanied by an
                    unmodified opinion issued by an independent auditor;

             B.     Conservative Estimate of Net Worth. That its net worth is greater
                    than 20 times the estimated cost to Plug and Abandon and Reclaim
                    all Oil and Gas Operations in Colorado; and

             C.     Multi-Agency Guarantees Prohibited. The Operator is not subject
                    to a guarantee of performance based on the same net worth as a
                    form of Financial Assurance provided to any other local, state,
                    tribal, or federal government agency, or to a foreign nation.

c.     Commission’s Interest in Active Financial Assurance.

       (1)   Commission’s Expenditure. All types of Financial Assurance may be
             expended by the Commission if an Operator fails to perform its obligations



                                                                                       357
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           under the Act or the Commission’s Rules, including its Plugging and
           Abandonment, Reclamation, and Remediation obligations.

     (2)   Operator’s Contingent Reversionary Interest. If an Operator fails to
           fulfill any of its obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules, the
           Operator will have no contract or property interest in any type of Financial
           Assurance other than a contingent reversionary interest in the surplus, if
           any, which arises:

           A.     After the Director determines that the Operator has complied with
                  all Plugging and Abandonment, Reclamation, and Remediation
                  obligations pursuant to Rule 706.a; or

           B.     After a Buying Operator has filed a satisfactory replacement
                  Financial Assurance pursuant to Rule 218.g.(4), and the Director
                  has approved the applicable Form 9, Transfer of Operatorship –
                  Subsequent.

d.   Riders Prohibited.

     (1)   New Riders. The Commission will not authorize any new bond riders after
           April 30, 2022, except:

           A.     In the instance of an Operator changing its name without any
                  associated transfer of assets pursuant to Rule 218; or

           B.     As the result of changing the amount of Financial Assurance
                  provided without any associated transfer of assets pursuant to Rule
                  218.

     (2)   Existing Riders. Operators whose Financial Assurance is partially or
           entirely provided through a rider on another Operator’s bond as of April
           30, 2022 will submit a Financial Assurance Plan for the review and
           approval or denial in accordance with Rule 702.b, addressing the liability
           posed by the rider.

e.   Form 3A, Financial Assurance. To provide Financial Assurance, update or
     change Financial Assurance or related information pursuant to the 700 Series
     Rules, an Operator will file a Form 3A, Financial Assurance, unless a Rule
     specifies a different form or notice mechanism.

702. FINANCIAL ASSURANCE FOR PLUGGING, ABANDONMENT, AND
RECLAMATION

a.   Applicability. All references to Wells in this Rule 702 include Wells subject to an
     approved but not yet expired Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill that have not
     yet been Spud. This Rule 702 applies to every Well and its associated Oil and
     Gas Location and Oil and Gas Facility, in Colorado, unless the Operator



                                                                                    358
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     demonstrates that it has already provided or will provide Financial Assurance for
     the same Well, Oil and Gas Location, or Oil and Gas Facility to the federal
     government at the time it files a Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill, an Oil and
     Gas Development Plan, or a Financial Assurance Plan pursuant to this Rule 702.
     This exception will continue until no later than 90 days after the effective date of
     any final rule adopted by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management to update the
     federal bonding requirements found in 43 C.F.R. § 3104, and in no case later
     than October 15, 2023. Following the expiration of this exception, all Operators
     with Wells subject to federal bonding requirements will file a revised Financial
     Assurance Plan pursuant to Rule 702.b.(2) and, based upon the Financial
     Assurance Option, the Commission or Director will determine whether the
     financial assurance required by the federal government is substantially
     equivalent to the Commission’s 700 Series and, if not, what additional Financial
     Assurance is required so long as the additional Financial Assurance does not
     duplicate financial assurance imposed by the federal government.

b.   Form 3, Financial Assurance Plan. Operators of 1 or more Wells will file
     Financial Assurance Plans as required by this Rule 702.b. Each Financial
     Assurance Plan will demonstrate how the Operator is financially capable of
     fulfilling its obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules.

     (1)    Initial Financial Assurance Plan Submissions.

            A.     Existing Operators’ Deadlines for Initial Financial Assurance
                   Plan Submission. All Operators of 1 or more Wells with an active
                   Form 1, Registration for Oil and Gas Operations as of April 30,
                   2022 will submit an initial Financial Assurance Plan according to
                   the following deadlines:

                   i.     Operators with 50 or more Wells: July 1, 2022.

                   ii.    Operators with greater than 10 but fewer than 50 Wells:
                          October 1, 2022.

                   iii.   Operators with 10 or fewer Wells: December 31, 2022.

            B.     New Operators. An Operator of 1 or more Wells that files a new
                   Form 1 after April 30, 2022 will submit an initial Financial
                   Assurance Plan concurrently with its Form 1.

            C.     Review of Initial Financial Assurance Plan.

                   i.     Director’s Review of Initial Financial Assurance Plan. If
                          an Operator’s initial Financial Assurance Plan meets the
                          criteria in Rules 702.d.(1) or (2), or the Operator’s initial
                          Financial Assurance Plan provides Single Well Financial
                          Assurance for all Wells and does not request a modification
                          of the presumptive annual contribution pursuant to Rules



                                                                                      359
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         702.d.(3) or (4), the Plan will be subject to review by the
                         Director. If the Director denies the initial Financial Assurance
                         Plan, the Operator may file an application for a Financial
                         Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11). Only
                         CDPHE, CPW, or a Relevant Local Government with
                         jurisdiction over Wells subject to the Operator’s Financial
                         Assurance Plan may file a petition pursuant to Rule 507 to
                         participate formally as a party in the Financial Assurance
                         hearing.

                  ii.    Commission’s Review of Initial Financial Assurance
                         Plan. For any submitted initial Financial Assurance Plan that
                         does not qualify for Director review pursuant to Rule
                         702.b.(1).C.i, the Operator will file an application for a
                         Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11)
                         concurrently with filing its Financial Assurance Plan. Only
                         CDPHE, CPW, or a Relevant Local Government with
                         jurisdiction over Wells subject to the Operator’s Financial
                         Assurance Plan may file a petition pursuant to Rule 507 to
                         participate formally as a party in the Financial Assurance
                         hearing.

     (2)   Revised Financial Assurance Plans. An Operator will file a revised
           Financial Assurance Plan if the Operator believes that a change to its
           approved Financial Assurance Plan is warranted due to a change in
           circumstance. Only CDPHE, CPW, or a Relevant Local Government with
           jurisdiction over Wells subject to the Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan
           may file a petition pursuant to Rule 507 to participate formally as a party in
           the Financial Assurance hearing.

           A.     If an Operator’s revised Financial Assurance Plan meets the criteria
                  in Rules 702.d.(1) or (2), or the Operator’s revised Financial
                  Assurance Plan provides Single Well Financial Assurance for all
                  Wells and does not request a modification of the presumptive
                  annual contribution pursuant to Rules 702.d.(3) or (4), the Plan will
                  be subject to review by the Director. If the Director denies the
                  revised Financial Assurance Plan, the Operator may file an
                  application for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
                  503.g.(11).

           B.     For any submitted revised Financial Assurance Plan that does not
                  qualify for Director review pursuant to Rule 702.b.(2).A, the
                  Operator will file an application for a Financial Assurance hearing
                  pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) concurrently with filing its revised
                  Financial Assurance Plan.




                                                                                     360
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)    Director’s Annual Review. The Director may require an Operator to file a
            revised Financial Assurance Plan and file an application for a Financial
            Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) based on the Director’s
            annual review pursuant to Rule 707.b.

c.   Financial Assurance Plan Options. Operators will file a Financial Assurance
     Plan in accordance with the listed Options. For purposes of any Option that
     includes a production threshold, the Operator will use the barrels of oil equivalent
     (“BOE”) or thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent (“MCFE”) threshold depending
     on the aggregate gas-to-oil ratio (“GOR”) of the production from all of its Wells
     over the previous 12 months. The BOE thresholds apply to Operators with an
     aggregate GOR equal to or less than 15,000 standard cubic feet (“SCF”)/barrels
     of oil (“BBL”); the MCFE thresholds apply to Operators with an aggregate GOR of
     greater than 15,000 SCF/BBL. Aggregate GOR is calculated by dividing the
     Operator’s total gas production (in thousand cubic feet (“MCF”)) over the
     previous 12 months by the Operator’s total oil production (in BBL) over the
     previous 12 months and multiplying by 1,000. Operators will use the conversion
     factor of 5.8 to convert MCF to BBL and vice versa. For purposes of calculating
     the average daily per-Well production, the Operator will not include Class II UIC
     Wells that are not Inactive Wells, Wells used for the purpose of monitoring or
     observing an oil or gas reservoir, and Stratigraphic Wells.

     (1)    Option 1. An Operator may file a Financial Assurance Plan that meets the
            criteria of Rule 702.d.(1) if:

            A.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 60 BOE
                   over the previous 12 months; or

            B.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 90
                   MCFE over the previous 12 months.

     (2)    Option 2. An Operator may file a Financial Assurance Plan that meets the
            criteria of Rule 702.d.(2) if:

            A.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 15 BOE
                   and is less than or equal to 60 BOE over the previous 12 months;
                   or

            B.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 22
                   MCFE and is less than or equal to 90 MCFE over the previous 12
                   months.

     (3)    Option 3. An Operator may file a Financial Assurance Plan that meets the
            criteria of Rule 702.d.(3) if:

            A.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 2 BOE
                   and is less than or equal to 15 BOE over the previous 12 months;
                   or



                                                                                     361
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 6 MCFE
                  and is less than or equal to 22 MCFE over the previous 12 months.

     (4)   Option 4. If an Operator does not meet the criteria in Rules 702.c.(1), (2),
           (3), or (6), or reports zero production from its oil or gas Wells during the
           previous 12 months, the Operator will file a Financial Assurance Plan that
           meets the criteria of Rule 702.d.(4).

     (5)   Option 5. An Operator may file a Financial Assurance Plan based on
           individual circumstances that demonstrate the Operator is financially
           capable of fulfilling all of the obligations imposed by the Act and the
           Commission’s Rules. An Operator may only submit a Financial Assurance
           Plan that meets the criteria of Rule 702.d.(5) due to circumstances that
           make it unnecessary or unreasonable for the Operator to submit the
           Financial Assurance amounts specified in Rules 702.d.(1)–(4), or for other
           exceptional circumstances.

     (6)   Option 6. An Option 6 Financial Assurance Plan is subject to regular
           review every 3 years pursuant to Rule 707.b.(1). An Operator may file a
           Financial Assurance Plan that meets the criteria of Rule 702.d.(6) if:

           A.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 40 BOE
                  or 60 MCFE over the previous 12 months, and the Operator is a
                  public company subject to the reporting requirements of the
                  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 15 U.S.C. § 78a, et
                  seq.; or

           B.     The Operator’s average daily per-Well production exceeds 60 BOE
                  or 90 MCFE over the previous 12 months, and the Operator is a
                  private company.

     (7)   Consolidation of Related Operators. Where a registered Operator
           owns, holds, or controls 50% or more of one or more other registered
           Operators, that parent company Operator and its subsidiary Operators
           may be consolidated, at their discretion, for purposes of determining
           Financial Plan Option eligibility and applicable amount of required Rule
           702 Series Financial Assurance, provided the parent Operator guarantees
           all Rule 702 Series Financial Assurance obligations for itself and the
           consolidated subsidiary entities. Consolidation under this Rule will include
           all of a parent Operator's subsidiary Operators.

d.   Contents of Financial Assurance Plans. Financial Assurance Plans will meet
     the informational criteria listed below.

     (1)   Option 1 Plans.

           A.     Information Requirements. An Operator that meets the criteria of
                  Rule 702.c.(1) will file a Financial Assurance Plan that includes the



                                                                                    362
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                following information to demonstrate it satisfies the criteria for
                Option 1:

                i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                       the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.

                ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                       accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                       falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                       date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.

                iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                       Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                       three years.

                iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                       that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                       for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                       production or plug each Well.

                v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                       Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                       Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                       infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                       Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                       Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                       the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

          B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The amount of Financial
                Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission as soon as
                practicable but no later than 90 days from the Commission’s
                approval of the Financial Assurance Plan, which will be:

                i.     Blanket Financial Assurance Amount (excludes Out of
                       Service Wells).

                       aa.    $12,000 per Well if the Operator operates less than or
                              equal to 50 Wells;

                       bb.    $10,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              50 Wells and less than or equal to 150 Wells;

                       cc.    $5,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              150 Wells and less than or equal to 1,500 Wells;

                       dd.    $3,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              1,500 Wells and less than or equal to 4,000 Wells; or




                                                                                     363
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        ee.    $1,500 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                               4,000 Wells.

                 ii.    Low Producing, Inactive, or Out of Service Well
                        Financial Assurance.

                        aa.    Low Producing Wells. The Operator’s blanket bond
                               will cover Low Producing Wells up to 10% of the
                               Operator’s total number of Wells (excluding Out of
                               Service Wells). The Operator will provide Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Low Producing Well that
                               exceeds the 10% threshold.

                        bb.    Inactive and Out of Service Wells. The amount of
                               Financial Assurance required by the Director pursuant
                               to Rules 434.c & d.

                        cc.    Transferred Low Producing Wells. Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Low Producing Well that
                               exceeds the threshold set forth in Rule
                               702.d.(1).B.ii.aa and was subject to a transfer of
                               operatorship approved by the Director pursuant to
                               Rule 218.g.

                 iii.   Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                        Assurance required for:

                        aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                        bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                        cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

           C.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                 the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.

           D.    Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
                 Certification of Financial Capability signed by the Operator’s
                 corporate officer to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of
                 the obligations imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules.

     (2)   Option 2 Plans.

           A.    Information Requirements. An Operator that meets the criteria of
                 Rule 702.c.(2) will file a Financial Assurance Plan that includes the
                 following information to demonstrate it satisfies the criteria for
                 Option 2:




                                                                                     364
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                       the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.

                ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                       accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                       falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                       date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.

                iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                       Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                       three years.

                iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                       that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                       for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                       production or plug each Well.

                v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                       Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                       Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                       infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                       Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                       Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                       the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

          B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The total amount of Financial
                Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission as soon as
                practicable but no later than 90 days from the Commission’s
                approval of the Financial Assurance Plan, which will be:

                i.     Blanket Financial Assurance Amount (excludes Out of
                       Service Wells).

                       aa.    $18,000 per Well if the Operator operates less than or
                              equal to 50 Wells;

                       bb.    $15,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              50 Wells and less than or equal to 150 Wells;

                       cc.    $12,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              150 Wells and less than or equal to 1,500 Wells;

                       dd.    $10,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              1500 Wells and less than or equal to 4,000 Wells; or

                       ee.    $8,000 per Well if the Operator operates more than
                              4,000 Wells.




                                                                                  365
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.    Low Producing, Inactive, or Out of Service Well
                        Financial Assurance.

                        aa.    Low Producing Wells. The Operator’s blanket bond
                               will cover Low Producing Wells up to 5% of the
                               Operator’s total number of Wells (excluding Out of
                               Service Wells). The Operator will provide Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Low Producing Well that
                               exceeds the 5% threshold.

                        bb.    Inactive and Out of Service Wells. The amount of
                               Financial Assurance required by the Director pursuant
                               to Rules 434.c & d.

                        cc.    Transferred Low Producing Wells. Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Low Producing Well that
                               exceeds the threshold set forth in Rule
                               702.d.(2).B.ii.aa and was subject to a transfer of
                               operatorship approved by the Director pursuant to
                               Rule 218.g.

                 iii.   Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                        Assurance required for:

                        aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                        bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                        cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

           C.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                 the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.

           D.    Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
                 Certification of Financial Capability signed by the Operator’s
                 corporate officer to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of
                 the obligations imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules.

     (3)   Option 3 Plans.

           A.    Information Requirements. An Operator requesting Commission
                 approval pursuant to Rule 702.c.(3) will file a Financial Assurance
                 Plan that includes the following information to demonstrate it
                 satisfies the criteria for Option 3:

                 i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                        the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.




                                                                                     366
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                       accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                       falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                       date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.

                iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                       Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                       three years.

                iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                       that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                       for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                       production or plug each Well.

                v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                       Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                       Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                       infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                       Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                       Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                       the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

          B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The total amount of Financial
                Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission over time,
                which will be:

                i.     Wells. Single Well Financial Assurance for every Well,
                       unless the Commission approves an alternative amount for a
                       transferred Low Producing Well pursuant to Rule 218.g, or
                       the Director approves an alternative amount pursuant to
                       Rule 434.d.

                ii.    Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                       Assurance required for:

                       aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                       bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                       cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

          C.    Time to Submit Contributed Financial Assurance. The
                contribution amount of the Operator’s Contributed Financial
                Assurance will increase each year as established pursuant to the
                Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan.

                i.     The presumptive annual contribution will be 5% of the total
                       amount of Financial Assurance required pursuant to Rule



                                                                                   367
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        702.d.(3).B until the Operator’s Contributed Financial
                        Assurance meets or exceeds its Financial Assurance
                        amount. The Commission may adjust this timeline based
                        upon considerations of the field life for the Operator’s Oil and
                        Gas Operations.

                 ii.    Credit for Completion of Plugging and Abandonment
                        and Reclamation. The Single Well Financial Assurance
                        amount for any Well for which the Director has approved a
                        Form 6, Subsequent Report of Abandonment will apply
                        towards an Operator’s Contributed Financial Assurance
                        amount. If the Operator is claiming credit, the Operator will
                        submit the amount of credit and supporting information on a
                        Form 3A. An Operator may not claim credit for the Plugging
                        and Abandonment and Reclamation of an Out of Service
                        Well on its Plugging List pursuant to Rule 434.d.

                 iii.   Release of Financial Assurance. Once the Operator’s
                        Contributed Financial Assurance meets or exceeds its
                        Financial Assurance amount, the Operator may submit a
                        Form 3A requesting release of the Single Well Financial
                        Assurance for any Well the Operator has fully Plugged and
                        Abandoned and Reclaimed pursuant to Rule 706.a.(4).

           D.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                 the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.

           E.    Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
                 Certification of Financial Capability signed by the Operator’s
                 corporate officer to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of
                 the obligations imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules.

     (4)   Option 4 Plans.

           A.    Information Requirements. An Operator requesting Commission
                 approval pursuant to Rule 702.c.(4) will file a Financial Assurance
                 Plan that includes the following information:

                 i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                        the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.

                 ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                        accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                        falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                        date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.




                                                                                     368
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                       Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                       three years.

                iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                       that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                       for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                       production or plug each Well.

                v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                       Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                       Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                       infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                       Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                       Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                       the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

          B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The total amount of Financial
                Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission, over time,
                which will be:

                i.     Wells. Single Well Financial Assurance for every Well,
                       unless the Commission approves an alternative amount for a
                       transferred Low Producing Well pursuant to Rule 218.g, or
                       the Director approves an alternative amount pursuant to
                       Rule 434.d.

                ii.    Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                       Assurance required for:

                       aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                       bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                       cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

          C.    Time to Submit Total Financial Assurance. The contribution
                amount of an Operator’s Financial Assurance will increase each
                year as established pursuant to the Financial Assurance Plan.

                i.     The presumptive amount will be 10% of the total amount of
                       Financial Assurance required pursuant to Rule 702.d.(4).B.
                       The Commission may adjust this timeline considering the
                       field life for the Operator’s Oil and Gas Operations.

                ii.    Credit for Completion of Plugging and Abandonment
                       and Reclamation. The Single Well Financial Assurance
                       amount for any Well for which the Director has approved a



                                                                                   369
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        Form 6, Subsequent Report of Abandonment will apply
                        towards an Operator’s Contributed Financial Assurance
                        amount. If the Operator is claiming credit, the Operator will
                        submit the amount of credit and supporting information on a
                        Form 3A. An Operator may not claim credit for the Plugging
                        and Abandonment and Reclamation of an Out of Service
                        Well on its Plugging List pursuant to Rule 434.d.

                 iii.   Release of Financial Assurance. Once the Operator’s
                        Contributed Financial Assurance meets or exceeds its
                        Financial Assurance amount, the Operator may submit a
                        Form 3A requesting release of the Single Well Financial
                        Assurance for any Well the Operator has fully Plugged and
                        Abandoned and Reclaimed pursuant to Rule 706.a.(4).

           D.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                 the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.

           E.    Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
                 Certification of Financial Capability signed by the Operator’s
                 corporate officer to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of
                 the obligations imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules.

     (5)   Option 5 Plans.

           A.    Information Requirements. An Operator requesting Commission
                 approval pursuant to Rule 702.c.(5) will file a Financial Assurance
                 Plan that includes the following information to demonstrate it
                 satisfies the criteria for Option 5:

                 i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                        the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.

                 ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                        accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                        falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                        date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.

                 iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                        Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                        three years.

                 iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                        that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                        for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                        production or plug each Well.




                                                                                     370
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                       Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                       Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                       infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                       Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                       Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                       the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

                vi.    Consideration of Low Producing Wells. A calculation of
                       the Financial Assurance that would be required for the
                       Operator’s Low Producing Wells if the Operator pursued a
                       Financial Assurance Plan based on its average daily per-
                       Well production consistent with the applicable Option from
                       Rules 702.c.(1)–(4).

          B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The amount of Financial
                Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission as soon as
                practicable but no later than within 90 days of the Commission’s
                approval of the Financial Assurance Plan and the Operator’s
                justification for not pursuing a Financial Assurance Plan based on
                the criteria in Rules 702.c.(1)–(4). The plan will specify the amount
                of Financial Assurance for:

                i.     Wells. The amount of Financial Assurance based on Well
                       status and designation, and under what circumstances the
                       Director will collect Single Well Financial Assurance for
                       future Low Producing Wells.

                ii.    Out of Service Wells. The amount of Financial Assurance
                       required by the Director pursuant to Rule 434.d.

                iii.   Transferred Low Producing Wells. Single Well Financial
                       Assurance for any Low Producing Well as set forth in Rule
                       702.d.(5).B.i that was subject to a transfer of operatorship
                       approved by the Director pursuant to Rule 218.g.

                iv.    Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                       Assurance required for:

                       aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                       bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                       cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

          C.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.




                                                                                   371
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.    Certification of Financial Capability and Unmodified Opinion.
                 An Operator will provide a Certification of Financial Capability to
                 ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of the obligations
                 imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules. The Certification will
                 be signed by the Operator’s corporate officer and will include its
                 current net worth, as demonstrated through financial statements
                 accompanied by an unmodified opinion issued by an independent
                 auditor.

     (6)   Option 6 Plans.

           A.    Information Requirements. An Operator that meets the criteria of
                 Rule 702.c.(6) will file a Financial Assurance Plan that includes the
                 following information to demonstrate it satisfies the criteria for
                 Option 6:

                 i.     Production Data. The total MCF and BBLs reported during
                        the previous 12 months and the Operator’s calculated GOR.

                 ii.    Well Status and Designation Data. A summary table
                        accounting for all Wells, including the number of Wells that
                        falls within each operational status and designation, as of the
                        date the Financial Assurance Plan is submitted.

                 iii.   Well Plugging Data. The number of Wells Plugged and
                        Abandoned by the Operator during each of the previous
                        three years.

                 iv.    Inactive Well List. A list of all the Operator’s Inactive Wells
                        that includes the name, number, API number, status, reason
                        for no or low production, and planned date for return to
                        production or plug each Well.

                 v.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the
                        Operator is planning for the retirement of its Oil and Gas
                        Operations based on the projected life of the field, age of the
                        infrastructure, Out of Service, Inactive, and Low Producing
                        Wells, and related information. For each Inactive Well, the
                        Operator will identify the reason for no or low production and
                        the planned date to return to production or plug the Well.

           B.    Financial Assurance Amount. The total amount of Financial
                 Assurance the Operator will provide to the Commission as soon as
                 practicable but no later than 90 days from the Commission’s
                 approval of the Financial Assurance Plan, which will be:




                                                                                   372
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 i.     Comprehensive Financial Assurance Amount (excluding
                        Out of Service Wells). Financial Assurance for every Well,
                        in a total amount equal to $40,000,000.

                 ii.    Low Producing, Inactive, or Out of Service Well
                        Financial Assurance.

                        aa.    Low Producing Wells. The Operator’s
                               comprehensive Financial Assurance amount will
                               cover Low Producing Wells up to 25% of the
                               Operator’s total number of Wells (excluding Out of
                               Service Wells). The Operator will provide Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Low Producing Well that
                               exceeds the 25% threshold.

                        bb.    Inactive and Out of Service Wells. The amount of
                               Financial Assurance required by the Director pursuant
                               to Rules 434.c & d.

                        cc.    Transferred Low Producing Wells. Single Well
                               Financial Assurance for any Well that exceeds the
                               threshold set forth in Rule 702.d.(6).B.ii.aa and was
                               subject to a transfer of operatorship approved by the
                               Director pursuant to Rule 218.g.

                 iii.   Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial
                        Assurance required for:

                        aa.    Other Oil and Gas Facilities pursuant to Rule 703;

                        bb.    Surface Owner protection pursuant to Rule 704; and

                        cc.    Remediation pursuant to Rule 703.b.

           C.    Type of Financial Assurance. The type of Financial Assurance
                 the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule 701.

           D.    Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
                 Certification of Financial Capability signed by the Operator’s
                 corporate officer to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of
                 the obligations imposed by the Act and Commission’s Rules.

e.   Procedure for Review of Financial Assurance Plans.

     (1)   Director’s Review. Pursuant to Rules 702.b.(1).C.i & 702.b.(2).A, the
           Director will review an Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan and may
           approve or deny such plan.




                                                                                     373
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.    Approval. The Director may approve a Financial Assurance Plan,
                 subject to reasonable and necessary conditions of approval, if, in
                 the Director’s judgment, the plan meets all applicable requirements
                 this Rule 702 and demonstrates that the Operator will provide
                 adequate Financial Assurance to comply with all of the obligations
                 under the Act and the Commission’s Rules.

           B.    Denial. The Director may deny a Financial Assurance Plan if, in the
                 Director’s judgment, the plan does not comply with this Rule 702 or
                 does not demonstrate that the Operator will provide adequate
                 Financial Assurance to comply with all of the obligations under the
                 Act and the Commission’s Rules.

           C.    Additional Information. If the Director determines that a Financial
                 Assurance Plan is incomplete or deficient, or that more information
                 is necessary to determine whether to approve or deny the Financial
                 Assurance Plan, the Operator will provide the additional information
                 that the Director requests. The Director will not fully consider the
                 Financial Assurance Plan until the Operator provides the requested
                 information.

           D.    Notice of Decision. Upon making a Decision on the Operator’s
                 Financial Assurance Plan, the Director will post the written basis for
                 the Director’s Decision on the Commission’s website, and notify the
                 Operator electronically in a manner determined by the Director.

     (2)   Commission’s Review. Pursuant to Rules 702.b.(1).C.ii & 702.b.(2).B,
           the Director will review an Operator’s Financial Assurance Plan and
           recommend whether the Commission should accept or deny such plan.

           A.    Director Recommendation.

                 i.     Recommended Acceptance. The Director may recommend
                        that the Commission accept a Financial Assurance Plan if it
                        complies with the informational requirements of Rule 702.d
                        and, in the Director’s judgment, the Operator has
                        demonstrated that it will provide adequate Financial
                        Assurance to comply with all of its obligations under the Act
                        and the Commission’s Rules.

                 ii.    Recommended Denial. The Director may recommend that
                        the Commission deny a Financial Assurance Plan if it does
                        not comply with all the informational requirements of Rule
                        702.d, or, in the Director’s judgment, the Operator has not
                        demonstrated that it will provide adequate Financial
                        Assurance to comply with all of its obligations under the Act
                        and the Commission’s Rules.




                                                                                   374
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iii.   Additional Information. If the Director determines that a
                       Financial Assurance Plan is incomplete, or that more
                       information is necessary to determine whether to
                       recommend that the Commission approve or deny the
                       Financial Assurance Plan, the Operator will provide the
                       additional information that the Director requests. The
                       Director will not issue a recommendation, and the
                       Commission will not consider the Financial Assurance Plan,
                       until the Operator provides the requested information.

          B.    Timing of Commission’s Review. Pursuant to Rules 702.b.(1).C.ii
                & 702.b.(2).B, and after the Director issues a recommendation
                pursuant to Rule 702.e.(2).A, the Commission will consider the
                Financial Assurance Plan in a hearing pursuant to Rule 510.

          C.    Commission Approval. The Commission may approve a Financial
                Assurance Plan, subject to reasonable and necessary conditions of
                approval, if it determines that the plan meets all applicable
                requirements of this Rule 702 and demonstrates that the Operator
                will provide adequate Financial Assurance to comply with all of its
                obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules.

          D.    Commission Denial. The Commission may deny a Financial
                Assurance Plan if it determines that the plan does not comply with
                this Rule 702 or does not demonstrate that the Operator will
                provide adequate Financial Assurance to comply with all of its
                obligations under the Act and the Commission’s Rules.

          E.    Additional Information. The Commission, Administrative Law
                Judge, or Hearing Officer may require an Operator to submit
                additional information or evidence in support of its Financial
                Assurance Plan, pursuant to Rule 505.f.

          F.    Commission’s Order. The Commission will issue an order
                memorializing its ruling on the Financial Assurance Plan following
                the Hearing. The order may include, at the Commission’s
                discretion, one or more of the following requirements:

                i.     Deadlines. Specific dates by which the Operator will reach
                       full compliance with its Financial Assurance Plan, or Plug
                       and Abandon certain Wells;

                ii.    Progress Reports. A periodic report to the Commission or
                       Director on the Operator’s progress towards meeting certain
                       required actions;

                iii.   Plan Renewal. Re-submission of a Financial Assurance
                       Plan at a future date to afford the Commission an



                                                                                 375
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         opportunity to review any changes in the Operator’s financial
                         status; or

                  iv.    Financial Assurance Amount. The amount of Financial
                         Assurance an Operator must provide, which may differ from
                         the amount specified in Rules 702, 703, or 704.

f.   Transition Period. The Director or Commission will consider any Financial
     Assurance in place as of April 29, 2022 as being applied towards the Operator’s
     ongoing Financial Assurance obligations after April 30, 2022, unless the
     Commission issues an order specifying otherwise.

703. FINANCIAL ASSURANCE FOR OTHER OIL AND GAS FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS

a.   Centralized E&P Waste Management Facilities.

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. Pursuant to Rule 907.d, prior to
           the Director’s approval of a Form 28, Centralized E&P Waste
           Management Facility Permit, the Operator will provide the Commission
           with Financial Assurance.

     (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance. The Operator will provide Financial
           Assurance in an amount equal to the estimated cost necessary to ensure
           the proper Remediation, Reclamation, closure, and abandonment of the
           Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility. The Director may require
           the Operator to adjust the amount of Financial Assurance it provides to
           account for inflation pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

     (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance submitted
           pursuant to this Rule 703.a will remain in effect until the Operator submits
           a written request for release of the Financial Assurance demonstrating
           that:

           A.     The Operator has transferred the Centralized E&P Waste
                  Management Facility pursuant to Rule 218;

           B.     The Director has approved final closure and Reclamation of the
                  Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility pursuant to Rule
                  907.h and the Commission’s 1000 Series Rules; or

           C.     The Operator has filed a Form 4 to abandon the permit for the
                  Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility without constructing
                  the facility, and the facility passes an inspection for permit
                  abandonment.

b.   Remediation Projects.




                                                                                    376
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. In reviewing an Operator’s Form
           27, Site Investigation and Remediation Workplan, if the Director
           determines that the Operator’s Financial Assurance is inadequate to
           address the scope of Remediation activities contemplated by the form, the
           Director may require the Operator to provide Financial Assurance, or
           additional Financial Assurance, as a condition of approval.

           A.    If an Operator disagrees with the Director’s determination, the
                 Operator may file an application for a Financial Assurance hearing
                 before the Commission pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11).

           B.    The Director may conditionally approve the Operator’s Form 27,
                 and the Operator may commence Remediation activities, prior to
                 the Commission issuing a final order in such a hearing.

     (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance. The Operator will provide Financial
           Assurance in an amount equal to the estimated cost necessary to ensure
           the proper Remediation, Reclamation, closure, and abandonment of the
           Remediation project site. The Director may require the Operator to adjust
           the amount of Financial Assurance it provides to account for inflation
           pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

     (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance required by this
           Rule 703.b will be held by the Director until the required Remediation of
           soil and/or Groundwater impacts is completed pursuant to the approved
           workplan and Rule 913.h.

c.   Seismic Operations.

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. At the time an Operator submits a
           Form 20, Permit to Conduct Seismic Operations pursuant to Rule 313, the
           Operator will file Financial Assurance to ensure the proper Plugging and
           Abandonment of any shot holes and any necessary surface Reclamation.

     (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance. The Operator will provide statewide
           blanket Financial Assurance in the amount of $25,000, adjusted for
           inflation pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

     (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. The Financial Assurance will remain in
           effect until the Operator submits a written request for release of the
           Financial Assurance demonstrating that following conditions have been
           met:

           A.    All shotholes have been properly Plugged and Abandoned pursuant
                 to Rule 436.e.(4);

           B.    The Reclamation required by Rule 436.h has been completed;




                                                                                   377
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.     The Operator has submitted and the Director has approved the
                  Form 20A for all Seismic Operations covered by the Financial
                  Assurance; and

           D.     All complaints received from Surface Owners have been
                  investigated, addressed, and resolved by the Director pursuant to
                  Rule 524.

d.   Gas Gathering, Gas Processing, and Underground Gas Storage Facilities.

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. At the time an Operator submits a
           Form 12, Gas Facility Registration, the Operator of a gas gathering, gas
           processing, or underground gas storage facility will provide Financial
           Assurance to ensure compliance with the Commission’s 900 Series Rules.

     (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance.

           A.     The Operator will provide Financial Assurance in the amount of
                  $100,000 for the Operator’s Gas Facility(ies), adjusted for inflation
                  pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A, unless the gas gathering or gas
                  processing system meets the criteria of Rule 703.d.(2).B.

           B.     Operators of small systems gathering or processing less than 5
                  million standard cubic feet per day (“MMSCFD”) may provide
                  individual Financial Assurance in the amount of $5,000, adjusted
                  for inflation pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

           C.     If the Director determines, based on an Operator’s compliance
                  record, the number or severity of Spills or Releases at the
                  Operator’s Gas Facilities requiring remediation, and other relevant
                  evidence, that the Operator’s Financial Assurance amount for its
                  Gas Gathering, Gas Processing, or Underground Gas Storage
                  Facilities should be increased, the Director will require the Operator
                  to immediately provide additional Financial Assurance. If the
                  Operator disagrees with the Director’s determination, the Operator
                  may file an application for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant
                  to Rule 503.g.(11).

     (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance submitted
           pursuant to this Rule 703.d will remain in effect until the Operator submits
           a written request for release of the Financial Assurance demonstrating
           that:

           A.     The Operator has transferred the facility to another Operator
                  pursuant to Rule 218; or




                                                                                    378
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     The Operator has fully decommissioned the facility, and any
                  outstanding Spills, Releases, and Remediation projects have been
                  closed pursuant to the Commission’s 900 Series Rules.

e.   Produced Water Transfer Systems.

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. At the time an Operator submits a
           Form 44, Flowline Report to register a Produced Water Transfer System
           pursuant to Rule 1101.d.(1), the Operator will provide Financial Assurance
           to ensure compliance with the Commission’s 900 Series Rules.

     (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance.

           A.     The Operator will provide Financial Assurance in the amount of
                  $50,000 per facility, adjusted for inflation pursuant to Rule
                  707.a.(1).A, unless the Produced Water Transfer System meets the
                  criteria of Rule 703.e.(2).B.

           B.     Operators of small systems transferring less than 700 Barrels of
                  water per day may provide individual Financial Assurance in the
                  amount of $5,000, adjusted for inflation pursuant to Rule
                  707.a.(1).A.

     (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance submitted
           pursuant to this Rule 703.e will remain in effect until the Operator submits
           a written request for release of the Financial Assurance demonstrating
           that:

           A.     The Operator has transferred the Produced Water Transfer System
                  to another Operator pursuant to Rule 218; or

           B.     The Operator has fully decommissioned the Produced Water
                  Transfer System, and any outstanding Spills, Releases, and
                  Remediation projects have been closed pursuant to the
                  Commission’s 900 Series Rules.

f.   Commercial Disposal Facilities.

     (1)   Submission of Financial Assurance. At the time an Operator submits an
           application for a new Commercial Disposal Well pursuant to Rule 810.a,
           the Operator will provide Financial Assurance to ensure compliance with
           the Commission’s 900 Series Rules by all surface facilities and structures
           appurtenant to the Commercial Disposal Well. This Rule 703.f does not
           relieve the Operator of its obligation to provide Financial Assurance for the
           Well itself pursuant to Rule 702.




                                                                                     379
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)   Amount of Financial Assurance. The Operator will provide $100,000 in
             Financial Assurance for each Commercial Disposal Well facility, adjusted
             for inflation pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1).A.

       (3)   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance submitted
             pursuant to this Rule 703.f will remain in effect until the Operator submits
             a written request for release of the Financial Assurance demonstrating
             that:

             A.     The Operator has transferred the Commercial Disposal Well to
                    another Operator pursuant to Rule 218; or

             B.     The Operator has Plugged and Abandoned the Commercial
                    Disposal Well, passed final Reclamation for the Oil and Gas
                    Location and all surface facilities appurtenant to the Well, and has
                    completed any Remediation required by the Commission’s 900
                    Series Rules.

704.   SURFACE OWNER PROTECTION BONDS

a.     When Surface Owner Protection Bonds Are Required. To protect Surface
       Owners from unreasonable crop loss or land damage caused by Oil and Gas
       Operations, if a Surface Owner is not a party to a lease, Surface Use Agreement,
       or other relevant agreement with an Operator, the Operator will provide Financial
       Assurance to the Commission prior to commencing any operations with heavy
       equipment on that Surface Owner’s property.

       (1)   Amount of Financial Assurance. Operators will provide Financial
             Assurance of:

                    i.     $4,000 per Well for non-irrigated land;

                    ii.    $10,000 per Well for irrigated land; or

                    iii.   $100,000 as a statewide blanket bond.

       (2)   State Lands. If Oil and Gas Operations are conducted on state lands and
             a bond has been filed with the State Board of Land Commissioners, an
             Operator need not file a Surface Owner protection bond pursuant to this
             Rule 704.

b.     Procedures for Claiming Surface Owner Protection Bonds. A Surface Owner
       may file an application for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
       503.g.(11) if the Surface Owner believes that crop loss or other damage caused
       by Oil and Gas Operations subject to this Rule 704 is unreasonable.

       (1)   The Surface Owner will bear the burden of proving that it has withstood
             unreasonable crop loss or land damage.



                                                                                      380
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   If the Commission finds in favor of the Surface Owner, the Commission
           may order an Operator to conduct corrective or remedial action, provide a
           monetary award for unreasonable crop loss or land damage that cannot
           be Remediated or corrected, or other relief as appropriate. The amount of
           such a monetary award is not limited to the amount of the Operator’s
           Financial Assurance provided pursuant to this Rule 704.

c.   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance provided pursuant to this
     Rule 704 will be held until:

     (1)   For an individual Surface Owner protection bond:

           A.    The Operator transfers the Well subject to the Surface Owner
                 protection bond pursuant to Rule 218;

           B.    The Operator Plugs and Abandons the Well subject to the Surface
                 Owner protection bond, the Well passes final Reclamation, and any
                 necessary Remediation is conducted as demonstrated by closure
                 of any Form 19, Spill/Release Report or Form 27, Site Investigation
                 and Remediation Workplan;

           C.    The Operator files a Form 4 to abandon the permit for the Well
                 subject to the Surface Owner protection bond without constructing
                 the Oil and Gas Location or Spudding the Well, and the Well
                 passes an inspection for permit abandonment; or

           D.    The Operator enters into a Surface Use Agreement, lease, or other
                 relevant agreement with the Surface Owner.

     (2)   For a blanket Surface Owner protection bond:

           A.    The Operator transfers all drilled Wells subject to the Surface
                 Owner protection bond pursuant to Rule 218;

           B.    The Operator Plugs and Abandons all drilled Wells subject to the
                 Surface Owner protection bond, all Wells subject to the Surface
                 Owner protection bond pass final Reclamation, and any necessary
                 Remediation is conducted as demonstrated by closure of any Form
                 19 or Form 27;

           C.    The Operator files a Form 4 to abandon the permit for all Wells
                 subject to the Surface Owner protection bond without constructing
                 the Oil and Gas Location(s) or Spudding the Well(s), and the
                 Well(s) pass an inspection for permit abandonment; or

           D.    The Operator enters into a Surface Use Agreement, lease, or other
                 relevant agreement with all Surface Owners subject to the Surface
                 Owner protection bond.



                                                                                   381
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

705.   GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE

a.     Consolidation of Related Operators. Where a registered Operator owns, holds,
       or controls 50% or more of one or more other registered Operators, that parent
       company Operator may fulfill the obligations of this Rule 705 for itself and its
       subsidiary Operator companies, provided that the policy or policies name both
       the parent and subsidiary Operator companies and provide coverage in the
       required amounts for each entity the parent Operator company seeks to cover.
       Consolidation under this Rule will include all of a parent Operator's subsidiary
       Operators.

b.     All Operators will maintain general liability insurance coverage for property
       damage, bodily injury to third parties, and sudden or accidental pollution that
       requires Remediation, with no exclusion for claims arising from operator-caused
       seismicity from oil or gas Wells, in the minimum amount of $5,000,000 per
       occurrence. The coverage required by this Rule may be secured alone or in
       combination with an umbrella or excess policy.

c.     All such general liability insurance policies will include the Commission as a
       “certificate holder” and “scheduled person or organization” so that the
       Commission may receive advance notice of cancellation.

d.     Operators will demonstrate their compliance with Rule 705.a by providing
       information about their insurance coverage on their Form 1.

e.     Operators will provide notice of any renewals or changes to their general liability
       insurance during the previous 12 months on their Form 1B, Annual Registration.

f.     Operators will provide information about their general liability insurance coverage
       and whether that coverage is sufficient to cover Remediation costs on the Form
       19 – Supplemental or Form 27 the Operator files pursuant to Rule 912.b.(6).

706.   RELEASE OR CLAIM OF FINANCIAL ASSURANCE

a.     When Financial Assurance Reverts to Operators. The Director will release
       part or all of an Operator’s Financial Assurance, including any accrued interest
       from a Cash Bond, if the Operator submits a Form 3A requesting release of the
       Financial Assurance, and any of the following conditions have been met:

       (1)    Full Compliance. The Director determines that an Operator has fully
              complied with all of its statutory and regulatory obligations for Plugging
              and Abandonment, Remediation, and Reclamation of all Oil and Gas
              Facilities subject to the Operator’s control pursuant to the Commission’s
              Rules;

       (2)    Transfer of Operatorship. The Director approves a Form 9 – Subsequent
              pursuant to Rule 218.g.(4) certifying that one or more Buying Operator(s)
              have filed sufficient replacement Financial Assurance for all Wells, Oil and



                                                                                        382
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Gas Locations, and Oil and Gas Facilities subject to the Operator’s
           control;

     (3)   Other Facilities and Operations. The Operator meets the requirements
           for release of Financial Assurance held for a specific category of facility or
           operation identified in Rule 703 or for release of a Surface Owner
           protection bond pursuant to Rule 704.c; or

     (4)   Single Well Financial Assurance for Wells. The Operator fully Plugs
           and Abandons and Reclaims a Well that has an associated Single Well
           Financial Assurance.

     (5)   Abandonment of Permit without Construction. The Operator abandons
           a permit for a Well, Oil and Gas Location, or Oil and Gas Facility without
           disturbing the surface or otherwise constructing the applicable facility, and
           files a Form 4, Sundry Notice to formally request abandonment of the
           permit and a field inspection confirms no disturbance or construction
           occurred.

b.   Procedure for Director to Access Financial Assurance. If an Operator fails to
     fulfill its statutory and regulatory obligations for Plugging and Abandonment,
     Remediation, and Reclamation, the Director will suspend the Operator’s Form 1
     and Form 10, Certificate of Clearance and will file an application for a Financial
     Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) to claim the Operator’s Financial
     Assurance.

     (1)   Hearing Procedures. The Secretary will serve notice of the Director’s
           hearing application on the Operator and, where applicable, any applicable
           third-party provider of the Financial Assurance pursuant to Rule 504.

           A.     The Operator, third-party provider of Financial Assurance, and any
                  other Affected Person may petition to participate in the hearing
                  pursuant to Rule 507.

           B.     If no petition is filed, the matter may be resolved as an uncontested
                  matter on the Commission’s consent agenda pursuant to Rules 508
                  & 519.

           C.     At hearing, the Commission has discretion to order appropriate
                  relief, including but not limited to permanently revoking the
                  Operator’s license to conduct Oil and Gas Operations in Colorado.

     (2)   Director’s Action to Claim Financial Assurance Pursuant to
           Commission Order. If the Commission approves the Director’s
           application to claim the Operator’s Financial Assurance, the Director will:

           A.     Transfer any Cash Bond to the Oil and Gas Conservation and
                  Environmental Response Fund;



                                                                                     383
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     Call any Surety Bond or Letter of Credit held by a third party for the
                  benefit of the Commission and deposit the called funds in the Oil
                  and Gas Conservation and Environmental Response Fund;

           C.     Foreclose upon any liens or otherwise secured real or physical
                  property held as a form of Financial Assurance and deposit the
                  foreclosed funds in the Oil and Gas Conservation and
                  Environmental Response Fund; and

           D.     Take any other actions necessary to liquidate and transfer any
                  other assets held as Financial Assurance into the Oil and Gas
                  Conservation and Environmental Response Fund.

c.   Recalcitrant Bond Providers. If a third-party provider of Financial Assurance
     fails to comply with the terms of a financial instrument, or with a Commission
     order calling a Surety Bond, Letter of Credit, or other form of Financial
     Assurance, the Director may designate that third-party provider to be an
     unacceptable provider. The Director will maintain a list of all unacceptable
     Financial Assurance providers on the Commission’s website.

     (1)   Reinstatement of Unacceptable Third-Party Providers. The Director
           will not accept any new Financial Assurance that an Operator seeks to
           provide through an unacceptable provider until the third-party provider
           applies for a hearing before the Commission pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11)
           and obtains an order of reinstatement from the Commission.

     (2)   Suits to Recover Financial Assurance. The Commission may file suit
           pursuant to § 34-60-109, C.R.S., to recover Financial Assurance based on
           a valid Commission order claiming the Financial Assurance pursuant to
           Rule 706.b.(2).

d.   Refund of Claimed Financial Assurance. If any portion of an Operator’s
     Financial Assurance that is claimed pursuant to Rule 706.b is not needed to
     cover the costs of Plugging and Abandonment, Reclamation, and Remediation of
     an Orphaned Site, the Director will refund the remainder of the Financial
     Assurance to the entity that provided the Financial Assurance. The Director may
     claim an overhead recovery fee of 10% of the funds as direct costs charged
     against any Financial Assurance that would otherwise be refunded to the entity
     that provided the Financial Assurance.

e.   Procedure for Operator to Pursue Release of Financial Assurance. If the
     Director or the Commission fails to timely release all or part of an Operator’s
     Financial Assurance after the Operator has satisfied its requirements pursuant to
     Rule 706.a, the Operator may file an application for a Financial Assurance
     hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11).




                                                                                    384
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

707.   REVIEW OF FINANCIAL ASSURANCE

a.     Director’s Review of Financial Assurance.

       (1)   Annual Review. Beginning July 1, 2023, the Director will conduct a review
             of every registered Operator’s Financial Assurance at least once every
             fiscal year to ensure that the Operator is in compliance with its approved
             Financial Assurance Plan and that the Operator continues to satisfy the
             eligibility requirements for the Option under which its Financial Assurance
             Plan was approved. The Director will document the results in writing of
             every annual review, and make the results available to the public on the
             Commission’s website.

             A.    The Director’s review may include whether the Operator’s Financial
                   Assurance should be updated to reflect inflation.

             B.    The Director’s review may include the Operator’s insurance
                   coverage and whether any Financial Assurance the Operator has
                   provided is sufficient to address the Operator’s Remediation
                   obligations under the Commission’s 900 Series Rules.

             C.    The Director’s review will include the verification of the existence of
                   Financial Assurance instruments, confirmation that required
                   restrictions are applied, verification of balances, and confirmation
                   that the Commission is authorized to access the funds.

             D.    If the Director determines that an Operator has not provided
                   adequate Financial Assurance pursuant to the Commission’s 700
                   Series Rules or is not in compliance with the Operator’s approved
                   Financial Assurance Plan, the Director will notify the Operator in
                   writing and provide a reasonable timeframe for the Operator to cure
                   the deficiency. The Director may also require the Operator to file a
                   revised Financial Assurance Plan pursuant to Rule 702.b.(4).

             E.    If the Operator disagrees with the Director’s determination, the
                   Operator may file an application for a Financial Assurance hearing
                   pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11).

       (2)   Discretionary Review. If the Director has reasonable cause to believe
             that the Commission may become burdened with the costs of fulfilling an
             Operator’s Plugging and Abandonment, Reclamation, or Remediation
             obligations under the Act or the Commission’s Rules because the
             Operator has demonstrated a pattern of non-compliance with the
             Commission’s Rules or other unique circumstances, the Director may file
             an application for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
             503.g.(11) to obtain the Commission’s approval of a plan for the Operator
             to provide additional Financial Assurance beyond what would otherwise
             be required under the Commission’s 700 Series Rules.



                                                                                      385
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Commission’s Review of Financial Assurance.

     (1)   Regular Review. If an Operator’s Commission-approved Financial
           Assurance Plan requires regularly scheduled Commission review during a
           hearing, the Operator will seek a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to
           Rule 503.g.(11) in accordance with the terms of the Order approving the
           Financial Assurance Plan.

     (2)   Commission’s Own Motion.

           A.    At any time, the Commission may commence a Financial
                 Assurance hearing for any Operator on its own motion pursuant to
                 Rule 503.a.

           B.    Procedure for Commission Hearing.

                 i.     Notice. If the Commission commences a hearing on its own
                        motion pursuant to this Rule 707.b.(2), the Secretary will
                        provide notice to the Operator pursuant to Rule 504.b.(10).B.

                 ii.    Evidence. The Operator will submit all information
                        requested by the Commission into the evidentiary record for
                        the hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11), including but not
                        limited to information regarding the status and production of
                        its Wells, its present Financial Assurance, and relevant
                        metrics of its financial status.

                 iii.   Financial Assurance Plan. The Commission may require
                        an Operator to submit a Financial Assurance Plan pursuant
                        to Rule 702.b prior to the Financial Assurance hearing.

     (3)   Commission Order. The Commission’s final order regarding the
           Operator’s Financial Assurance may require an Operator to provide
           additional Financial Assurance beyond what is ordinarily required by the
           Commission’s Rules based on the unique circumstances of the Operator,
           if those circumstances demonstrate a risk of the Operator being unable to
           comply with its obligations to Plug and Abandon Wells, perform proper
           Reclamation, or perform proper Remediation.




                                                                                  386
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


800 SERIES UNDERGROUND INJECTION FOR DISPOSAL AND ENHANCED
RECOVERY PROJECTS

801.   CLASS II UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL WELLS

a.     A Class II Underground Injection Control Well (“Class II UIC Well”) will not be
       authorized if the proposed Well or operations will result in the presence of any
       physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in an
       Underground Source of Drinking Water that may adversely affect the health of
       persons or cause a violation of any of the U.S. Environmental Protection
       Agency’s National Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 40 C.F.R. § 141. Only
       the version of 40 C.F.R. § 141 in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies to this
       Rule; later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 141 is available for public
       inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at
       the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado
       80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595
       Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available online at
       https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-
       11/documents/howepargulates_cfr-2003-title40-vol20-part141_0.pdf.

b.     A Class II UIC Well will not be authorized if the proposed Well or operations will
       result in the presence of any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological
       substance or matter that will cause a violation of any applicable domestic or
       agricultural use standards as adopted in 5 C.C.R. § 1002-41 (“WQCC Regulation
       41”) or 5 C.C.R. § 1002-42 (“WQCC Regulation 42”). Only the versions of WQCC
       Regulations 41 & 42 that are in effect as of January 15, 2021 apply to this rule;
       later amendments do not apply. WQCC Regulations 41 & 42 are available for
       public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
       Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801,
       Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the Colorado Department of Public Health and
       Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and are
       available online at https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/water-quality-control-
       commission-regulations.

c.     Class II UIC Wells will not be permitted in areas where they would inject into a
       formation that is separated from any Underground Source of Drinking Water by a
       Confining Layer with known open faults or fractures that would allow flow
       between the Injection Zone and Underground Source of Drinking Water within
       the area of review.

d.     Injection Zones will not be permitted within 300 feet in a vertical dimension from
       the top of any Precambrian basement formation.

e.     An Operator will not inject any Fluids or other contaminants into a UIC Aquifer
       that meets the definition of an Underground Source of Drinking Water unless
       EPA has approved a UIC Aquifer exemption as described in Rule 802.e.




                                                                                       387
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

802.   UIC AQUIFER EXEMPTIONS

a.     Purpose. UIC Aquifer exemptions are required for an Operator to inject Fluids
       into a formation containing Groundwater with total dissolved solids (“TDS”)
       concentration less than 10,000 milligrams per liter (“mg/l”). The Commission or
       Director will not designate UIC Aquifers if they have a TDS concentration less
       than 3,000 mg/l.

b.     Criteria for UIC Aquifer Exemptions. The Commission or the Director may
       designate a UIC Aquifer as exempt upon the filing of an application pursuant to
       Rules 803, 809, 810, or 811, and after coordination with CDPHE’s Water Quality
       Control Division if it meets all of the following criteria:

       (1)   The UIC Aquifer does not currently serve as an Underground Source of
             Drinking Water or domestic water source, and is not classified for
             domestic use by the Water Quality Control Commission; and

       (2)   The Applicant demonstrates that the UIC Aquifer cannot now and will not
             in the future serve as a source of drinking water for one of the following
             reasons:

             A.     It is mineral, hydrocarbon, or geothermal energy producing, or can
                    be demonstrated by filing an application pursuant to Rules 803,
                    809, 810, or 811 to contain minerals or hydrocarbons that,
                    considering their quantity and location, are technologically feasible
                    to develop and can be commercially produced; or

             B.     It is so contaminated that it would be economically or
                    technologically impractical to render the water fit for human
                    consumption; and

       (3)   The Applicant demonstrates that the UIC Aquifer cannot now and will not
             in the future serve as a source of agricultural water for one of the following
             reasons:

             A.     It is mineral, hydrocarbon, or geothermal energy producing, or can
                    be demonstrated by filing an application pursuant to Rules 803,
                    809, 810, or 811 to contain minerals or hydrocarbons that,
                    considering their quantity and location, are technologically feasible
                    to develop and can be commercially produced; or

             B.     It is so contaminated that it would be economically or
                    technologically impractical to render the water fit for agricultural
                    use.

c.     UIC Aquifer Exemption Public Notice. If a UIC Aquifer exemption is required
       as part of an injection permit application process, the Operator will apply for a
       UIC Aquifer exemption. The application will contain data and information that



                                                                                           388
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     show the UIC Aquifer meets the exemption criteria set forth in Rule 802.b. After
     evaluation of the application and prior to designating a UIC Aquifer or a portion
     thereof as an exempted UIC Aquifer, the Director will publish a notice of
     proposed designation on the Commission’s website and in a newspaper of
     general circulation serving the area where the UIC Aquifer is located. The
     Director will also provide notice of the proposed Aquifer exemption to the
     Relevant Local Government with land use authority above the proposed Injection
     Zone. The notice will identify the UIC Aquifer or portion thereof that the Director
     proposes to designate as exempted, and will state that any interested person
     may request a hearing before the Commission.

d.   Evaluation of Written Requests for Public Hearing. Written requests for a
     public hearing before the Commission will be reviewed and evaluated by the
     Commission to determine if the criteria set forth in Rule 802.b have been met. If,
     within 30 days after publication of the notice, the Commission receives a timely
     hearing request, the Commission will hold such a hearing pursuant to Rule 510.
     If no request for hearing is filed within 30 days after publication of the notice, the
     UIC Aquifer or portion thereof will be considered exempted 30 days after
     publication of the notice.

e.   Submission to EPA. If the Commission approves a UIC Aquifer exemption
     pursuant to Rule 802.d, the Director will promptly submit a formal request for
     approval of the exemption to EPA. A UIC Aquifer exemption is not effective until
     it receives final approval from EPA.

803. APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS II UNDERGROUND INJECTION
CONTROL WELLS

a.   Unless otherwise noted in this Rule 803, the requirements of this Rule 803 apply
     to all new Class II UIC Wells, including disposal Wells, enhanced recovery Wells,
     Simultaneous Injection Wells, and Commercial Disposal Well Facilities.

b.   Related Permitting Requirements.

     (1)    An Operator will submit an application for a Class II UIC Well at the same
            time it submits any permit applications required by the Commission’s 300
            Series Rules, including an Oil and Gas Development Plan, a Form 2A, Oil
            and Gas Location Assessment, or Form 2, Application for Permit to Drill.

     (2)    For proposals to convert an existing production Well into an injection Well
            that would not otherwise require the submission of an Oil and Gas
            Development Plan or Form 2A, the Operator will:

            A.     Submit a partial Form 2B, Cumulative Impacts Data Identification
                   documenting the incremental adverse and beneficial impacts of the
                   proposed conversion pursuant to Rules 315.a.(2).A, B, & F; and




                                                                                        389
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.     If requested by the Director, submit a subset of the information or
                   plans required by Rule 304 necessary to consider the incremental
                   adverse and beneficial impacts of the conversion.

c.   Multiple Disposal Well Applications. The Injection Zone radius for disposal
     Wells will not interfere with the Injection Zone radius of any other disposal Wells.
     This Rule 803.c will not apply to enhanced recovery floods.

d.   Neither construction of nor operation of a Class II UIC Well will occur without the
     Director’s approval of a Form 31, Underground Injection Formation Permit
     Application, and Form 33, Injection Well Permit Application.

     (1)    Form 31, Underground Injection Formation Permit Application. A
            Form 31 permits the Injection Zone and will be approved prior to
            completing an Injection Zone. A Form 31, Underground Injection
            Formation Permit Application – Intent, will be approved prior to sampling,
            Stimulating, and testing the Well(s). A Form 31, Underground Injection
            Formation Permit Application – Subsequent, will be approved prior to
            injection.

     (2)    Form 33, Injection Well Permit Application. A Form 33 permits the
            injection Well and will be approved prior to completing the Well. A Form
            33, Injection Well Permit Application – Intent, will be approved prior to
            sampling, Stimulating, and testing the Well(s). A Form 33, Underground
            Injection Formation Permit Application – Subsequent, will be approved
            prior to injection.

e.   Denial of Underground Disposal of Class II Exploration and Production
     Waste. If the Director determines that a proposed Class II UIC Well is not
     protective of public health, safety, welfare, applicable Colorado water quality
     standards, the environment, and wildlife resources, and will not protect against
     adverse environmental impacts on any air, water, soil, or biological resource
     resulting from Oil and Gas Operations, the Director will deny the Form 31 and
     any related Form 33 in writing. Pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10), the Operator may
     seek the Commission’s review of the Director’s rejection of a Form 31 and Form
     33.

f.   Maximum Allowable Injection Rate, Total Volume, and Surface Injection
     Pressure. The Director will set the maximum allowable injection rate, total
     volume, and surface injection pressure in the approved Form 31 – Subsequent
     and Form 33 – Subsequent.

     (1)    The Operator will perform seismic monitoring if the permitted injection rate
            for a disposal Well exceeds 10,000 Barrels of water per day. If requested
            by the Commission or Director, the Operator will perform seismic
            monitoring as reasonable and necessary for other injected Fluids. A traffic




                                                                                      390
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           light protocol for seismicity associated with injection activities may be
           applied as a condition of approval.

     (2)   Except during hydraulic fracturing, the maximum allowable injection
           pressure will be set below the fracture gradient of the Injection Zone, as
           determined by a step-rate injection test in the Class II UIC Well, a step
           rate injection test in an offset Well completed in the same Injection Zone,
           or other test acceptable to the Director. The maximum allowable injection
           pressure will assure that the pressure in the Injection Zone during injection
           does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures. Until a step-
           rate injection test is performed, the maximum allowable injection pressure
           will be set consistent with a formation pressure gradient of 0.6 pounds per
           square inch (“psi”) per total vertical foot from surface to the uppermost
           injection perforation.

     (3)   Disposal Wells will initially be permitted for an injection volume based on a
           1/4 mile radius from the completed interval in the Injection Zone. The 1/4
           mile radius will be measured from the surface location(s) for proposed
           vertical disposal Well(s), or the completed portion of the wellbore(s) in the
           Injection Zone in drifted, directional, or horizontal disposal Wells. This
           Rule 803.f.(3) does not apply to enhanced oil recovery projects.

     (4)   Operators may submit a Form 4, Sundry Notice, requesting a disposal
           Well volume increase, such that the radius will increase to an injection
           volume based on a 1/2 mile radius from the completed interval in the
           Injection Zone. This Rule 803.f.(4) does not apply to enhanced oil
           recovery projects.

g.   Form 31, Underground Injection Formation Permit Application – Intent. An
     application for a Class II UIC Well will include the following information:

     (1)   Operator. The Operator of the Class II UIC Well or the designated
           Operator of a unitized or cooperative project will execute the application.

     (2)   Map and List of Addresses. The parties listed in Rules 803.g.(2).A–B will
           be specifically outlined and identified on a base map, and a related list of
           addresses will be provided with the application.

           A.     All Surface Owners:

                  i.     Within 1/2 mile of the surface location(s) for proposed
                         vertical disposal Well(s);

                  ii.    Within 1/2 mile of the completed portion of the wellbore(s) in
                         the Injection Zone in directional, or horizontal disposal Wells;
                         or




                                                                                       391
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 iii.   If a Field-wide disposal system is proposed, all Surface
                        Owners of record in the Field and within 1/2 mile of the unit
                        or project boundary.

                 iv.    For enhanced recovery projects, a map meeting the
                        requirements of Rule 811.b.(8).

           B.    All mineral Owners:

                 i.     Of all oil and gas Wells currently producing from the
                        proposed Injection Zone within 1/2 mile of the surface
                        location(s) for proposed vertical disposal Well(s);

                 ii.    Within 1/2 mile of the completed portion of the wellbore(s) in
                        the Injection Zone in drifted, directional, or horizontal
                        disposal Wells; or

                 iii.   For enhanced recovery projects, a map meeting the
                        requirements of Rule 811.b.(8).

     (3)   Authorization for Surface Use.

           A.    To construct or recomplete a disposal Well or Simultaneous
                 Injection Well at a surface location, the Operator will provide a
                 Surface Use Agreement, unless the Owner or Operator of the
                 disposal Well or Simultaneous Injection Well is also the Surface
                 Owner.

           B.    To construct or recomplete an Enhanced Recovery Well at a
                 surface location, the Operator will provide a Surface Use
                 Agreement, a copy of a lease, or a unit operating agreement,
                 unless the Owner or Operator of the Enhanced Recovery Well is
                 also the Surface Owner.

           C.    For all Class II UIC Wells, Surface Use Agreement(s), leases, or
                 unit operating agreements will state explicitly that the injected
                 Fluids may contain E&P Waste from Oil and Gas Operations.

     (4)   Surface Facility Diagram and Process Flow Diagram. A diagram of the
           surface facility showing all Pipelines and Tanks associated with the
           system and a process flow diagram.

     (5)   Proposed Injection Program. The application will include a proposed
           injection program with the following:

           A.    An overall summary of the proposed injection program.




                                                                                     392
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          B.    Geologic Formation Summary. A geologic formation summary for
                all Wells being converted to injection and all new injection Wells.
                For a new injection Well, the application may reference any
                available geophysical logging data from offset Well(s) within 1 mile
                of the proposed injection Well to estimate formation depths and
                thickness. Where there is limited available data from the local basin
                below the target formations, the Operator will provide a best
                estimate to the depth of the Precambrian basement. The geologic
                formation summary may consist of a stratigraphic chart starting
                from the surface, down to the proposed total depth of the Well, that
                includes the geologic formations present, along with the names,
                descriptions, depths, and thickness from the surface to the top of
                Precambrian basement of the following:

                i.     The formations which will receive any Fluids to be injected or
                       zones that have already received injected Fluids;

                ii.    The overlying and underlying Confining Layers capable of
                       limiting the movement of any Fluids to be injected;

                iii.   The formations from which oil and gas Wells are producing
                       or have produced; and

                iv.    All Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

          C.    Injected Water Analysis. Laboratory analytical results from a
                representative water sample collected from the Fluid to be injected,
                addressing all analytes listed in and following all procedures
                required by Rules 909.j.(1)–(5). For an injection Well intended to
                serve production Wells not yet completed, the applicant may submit
                other available data regarding the expected quality of the Fluid to
                be injected. Within 90 days after the date of first production of a
                production Well that will send Fluids to the injection Well, the
                applicant will submit a laboratory analysis of a representative
                sample collected from the fluid to be injected.

          D.    Injection Zone Analysis. Laboratory analytical results from a
                representative water sample collected from the Injection Zone,
                addressing all analytes listed in and following all procedures
                required by Rules 909.j.(1)–(5). If the total dissolved solids of the
                Injection Zone is determined to be less than 10,000 mg/l, the
                Operator will seek a UIC Aquifer exemption pursuant to Rule 802.
                The Operator will evaluate disposal zones for hydrocarbon potential
                pursuant to Rule 408.q. For a new Class II UIC Well, the Applicant
                may provide any available representative water analysis from offset
                Well(s) completed in the same Injection Zone within 1 mile of the
                proposed injection Well for submission with a Form 31 – Intent. The




                                                                                 393
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 Operator will submit a water analysis from the Injection Zone,
                 collected from the disposal Well(s) in the application with the Form
                 31 – Subsequent after the Well(s) are completed.

           E.    A description of the compatibility of the injection Fluid with the
                 Injection Zone.

           F.    A description of the source(s) of the Fluid and a description of the
                 transport method from the source(s) to the injection Well(s).

           G.    A general description of the surface facilities, separation, and
                 treatment processes.

           H.    The estimated volume to be injected daily.

           I.    The anticipated injection pressures and known or calculated
                 fracture gradient.

     (6)   Seismicity Evaluation. The application will include a seismicity
           evaluation with the following information:

           A.    A geological and geophysical evaluation of known transmissive or
                 sealing faults or shear zones within 12 miles of the proposed Class
                 II UIC Well and the potential for induced seismicity during injection
                 operations;

           B.    An exhibit of the historical seismic activity within 12 miles of the
                 proposed injection Well;

           C.    An exhibit showing the potential for seismic activity within 12 miles
                 of the proposed injection Well; and

           D.    A wellbore diagram of the Injection Zone depicting the Well’s
                 bottomhole location relative to the Precambrian basement.

     (7)   Oil and Gas Well Map and List.

           A.    The application will include a base map covering the area within 1
                 mile, as measured from the surface location(s) for proposed vertical
                 disposal Well(s), or within 1 mile of the completed portion of the
                 wellbore(s), projected to surface in plan view in the Injection Zone
                 in drifted, directional, or horizontal disposal Wells. The base map
                 will show the proposed injection wellbore(s), wellbore path(s), and
                 all oil and gas Wells within a 1 mile radius of the injection
                 wellbore(s). Labels on the map will identify all oil and gas Wells
                 within 1 mile of the proposed injection wellbore(s) that are
                 producing from the proposed Injection Zone at the time of the
                 application.



                                                                                        394
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.     For enhanced recovery projects, a map meeting the requirements
                   of Rule 811.b.(8).

            C.     A list will provide additional details for all oil and gas Wells shown
                   on the oil and gas Well map and their total depth, completed
                   interval depths, completed formation names, and producing or
                   injecting status at the time of application.

     (8)    Water Wells Map and List. The application will include a map and list of
            all water wells registered with the Division of Water Resources, within 1
            mile of the proposed Class II UIC Well(s), including their location and
            depth.

     (9)    Area of Review. The application will include a review of all offset oil and
            gas Wells within 1/2 mile of proposed injection wellbore(s), describing
            existing isolation of Injection Zones, oil and gas production formations,
            Confining Layers, and Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

     (10)   Remedial Corrective Action Plan. The Applicant will include a remedial
            corrective action plan for any offset Well(s) within 1/4 mile of the proposed
            injection wellbore(s) in which the Injection Zone is not adequately plugged
            or otherwise isolated with cement to prevent flow into the offset Well(s).
            The remedial corrective action plan will describe the Applicant’s plan for
            performance of any such remedial work to plug, re-plug, or provide
            remedial cement for the offset Wells, which the Applicant may or may not
            operate.

            A.     For a volume increase request pursuant to Rule 803.f.(1).C, the
                   Applicant will provide a remedial corrective action plan for offset
                   Wells within 1/2 mile of the proposed injection wellbore(s).

            B.     This Rule 803.g.(10) does not apply to enhanced oil recovery
                   projects where an offset production Well is part of the enhanced oil
                   recovery project.

     (11)   Stimulation Program. The application will include a summary of any
            proposed stimulation program.

     (12)   Disposal Formation Hydrocarbon Evaluation. For disposal Wells, the
            application will include the Operator’s proposed method of evaluating
            hydrocarbon production potential of the proposed Injection Zone. This
            Rule 803.g.(12) will not apply to enhanced recovery wells.

     (13)   Class II Waste Source List. The application will include a listing of all
            potential sources of Class II E&P Waste to be injected on a Form 26,
            Source of Produced Water for Disposal, and Form 14A, Authorization of
            Source of Class II Waste for Disposal, as applicable.




                                                                                         395
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (14)   Notice of Application. A notice of application for an injection Well will be
            given by the Applicant by registered or certified mail or by personal
            delivery to the persons listed below. The application will include a
            certificate of service demonstrating that the Applicant served a copy of the
            application on all persons entitled to notice pursuant to the Commission’s
            Rules. The certificate of service will include the names and addresses of
            those persons the Applicant notified, and the Applicant will certify that
            notice was given by registered or certified mail, or by personal delivery.
            The Applicant will provide notice to:

            A.    Surface Owners and mineral Owners with recorded ownership
                  interests within 1/2 mile of the surface location of the proposed
                  Class II UIC Well(s), the Relevant Local Government in which the
                  injection Well(s) are located and any Local Government with land
                  use authority within 1/2 mile of the surface location(s) for proposed
                  vertical Well(s), or within 1/2 mile of the completed portion of the
                  wellbore(s), projected to surface in plan view in the Injection Zone
                  in drifted, directional, or Horizontal Wells.

            B.    For a volume increase request pursuant to Rule 803.f.(3), all
                  persons and entities listed in Rule 803.g.(14).A within a 3/4 mile
                  radius of the proposed injection wellbore(s).

            C.    Disposal Wells and Simultaneous Injection Wells. Owners and
                  Operators of oil and gas Wells producing from the Injection Zone
                  and the recorded mineral Owner of the Injection Zone within 1/2
                  mile of the surface location(s) for proposed vertical disposal
                  Well(s), or within 1/2 mile of the completed portion of the
                  wellbore(s), projected to surface in plan view in the Injection Zone
                  in drifted, directional, or horizontal disposal Wells, and to mineral
                  Owners of Cornering and Contiguous Units where injection will
                  occur into the producing zones, whichever is the greater distance.

            D.    Enhanced Recovery Wells. If injection of Fluids is proposed for an
                  enhanced recovery project, the Applicant will provide an entire copy
                  of the application, by registered or certified mail or by personal
                  delivery, to each mineral Owner of record of the reservoir involved
                  within the unit and within 1/2 mile of the proposed unit boundary.

     (15)   Notice of Application Requirements. The notice of application will briefly
            describe the injection application and include legal location, proposed
            Injection Zone(s), depth of injection, and other relevant information.

            A.    The notice will specifically state that pursuant to Rule 507.a, any
                  person who may be directly and adversely affected or aggrieved by
                  the authorization of the underground injection into the proposed
                  Injection Zone is entitled to file, within 30 days of notification, a




                                                                                       396
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  written request for a public hearing before the Commission,
                  provided such request meets the petition requirements specified in
                  Rule 804.b.

           B.     The notice will state that additional information about the operation
                  of the proposed Class II UIC Well may be obtained at the
                  Commission’s office and on the Commission’s website. The notice
                  will provide the appropriate Commission Staff contact information.

           C.     A copy of the notice of application will be included with the Form 31
                  – Intent filed with the Commission.

h.   Form 31, Underground Injection Formation Permit Application –
     Subsequent. Within 30 days of a successful mechanical integrity test for a Class
     II UIC Well, the Operator will file a Form 31 – Subsequent, which will include the
     following information:

     (1)   Injection Zone Water Analysis. A water analysis from the Injection Zone,
           collected from the Class II UIC Well(s) in the application, addressing all
           analytes listed in and following all procedures required by Rules 909.j.(1)–
           (5).

     (2)   Geophysical Logs. Openhole resistivity and neutron/density Logs from
           the bottom of the surface casing to total depth of the Class II UIC Well,
           unless otherwise specified as a condition of approval on the Form 31 –
           Intent for the injection Well.

     (3)   Step Rate or Injectivity Test Documentation. If the Operator performs a
           step rate test or injectivity test, the Operator will submit the test results.

     (4)   Disposal Well Hydrocarbon Evaluation Results. Summary of the
           Operator’s evaluation of Productivity Test results in the Injection Zone.
           This Rule 803.h.(4) will not apply to enhanced recovery wells.

i.   Form 33, Injection Well Permit Application – Intent. The Operator will file a
     Form 33 – Intent, which will include the following information:

     (1)   Wellbore Diagram. An existing and proposed schematic drawing showing
           all casing strings with cement volumes and tops, plug back total depth,
           isolation devices, remedial cement work, depth of any existing open or
           squeezed perforations, setting depths of any existing or proposed bridge
           plugs, formation tops, planned perforations in the Injection Zone, tubing
           and packer size, and setting depth.

     (2)   Casing and Cementing Plan. The application will include a proposed
           casing and cement plan for the injection Well meets the requirements of
           Rule 308.b.(6). This will include any previous and proposed remedial
           cement work.



                                                                                       397
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   Casing Integrity. For existing Wells proposed for conversion to a Class II
           UIC Well, the Operator will check the condition of the casing with a pipe
           analysis Log or a caliper Log and include a copy of the Log with the
           application.

j.   Form 33, Injection Well Permit Application – Subsequent. After a Class II UIC
     Well is completed, recompleted, or after Injection Zones are temporarily
     abandoned, the Operator will file a Form 33 – Subsequent.

     (1)   The Form 33 – Subsequent will include the following as-constructed
           details:

           A.     Wellbore Diagram. A final schematic drawing showing all casing
                  strings with cement volumes and tops, plug back total depth,
                  isolation devices, depth of any existing open or squeezed
                  perforations, setting depths of any bridge plugs, formation tops,
                  perforations in the Injection Zone, tubing and packer size, and
                  setting depths.

           B.     Casing and Cementing. Documentation of the final casing and
                  cement in the Class II UIC Well, any existing remedial cement
                  confirmed during the work, and remedial cement placed during the
                  work.

           C.     Cement Bond Log. Unless already provided to the Commission, to
                  determine if the cement has been placed to adequately isolate the
                  Injection Zone, production zones, and Groundwater, a cement bond
                  or other cement evaluation Log will be run and provided with this
                  report as a means of verifying cementing records.

     (2)   Mechanical Integrity Testing Requirement. Prior to application
           approval, the proposed Class II UIC Well will satisfactorily pass a
           mechanical integrity test pursuant to Rule 417 and be witnessed by the
           Director.

k.   Injection Application Deadlines. After a Form 31 – Intent and any related Form
     33 – Intents have been approved, the Operator will submit all of the data or
     information necessary to approve the Form 31 – Subsequent or any related Form
     33 – Subsequents within 6 months, or the application for a Form 31 –
     Subsequent or any related Form 33 – Subsequents will be withdrawn from
     consideration. However, for good cause shown, a 90-day extension may be
     granted, if requested in writing to the Director on a Form 4 prior to the date of
     expiration.

l.   Notice of Commencement. Within 30 days after the commencement of injection
     operations, the Operator will submit a Form 5A, Completed Interval Report, to
     notify the Commission of the injection date.




                                                                                  398
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

m.     Notice of Discontinuance. Within 10 days after the discontinuance of injection
       operations, the Operator will submit a Form 4 to notify the Commission of the
       date of such discontinuance, the reasons for the discontinuance, and the
       Operator’s future plans for the Class II UIC Well. An Operator need not submit a
       notice of discontinuance for status changes to or from injection to production in
       enhanced recovery projects, and instead should submit a notice of status change
       pursuant to Rule 811.d.

n.     Before plugging any Class II UIC Well, the Owner of the Well will provide notice
       to the Commission and will follow the same procedures for plugging a Class II
       UIC Well as the procedures for plugging oil and gas Wells pursuant to Rule
       434.a.

804.   NOTICE AND COMMENT FOR CLASS II UIC WELL APPLICATIONS

a.     Injection Well Public Notice and Comment.

       (1)   When the Director determines that a proposed injection permit application
             is complete, the Director will publish a notice of the proposed injection
             permit application in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area
             where the injection Well(s) is (are) located, and also publish notice on the
             Commission’s website. The Director will simultaneously provide notice to
             the Division of Water Resources.

       (2)   The notice will briefly describe the proposed injection permit application
             and include legal location, proposed Injection Zone, depth of injection, and
             other relevant information.

       (3)   The comment period for the proposed injection permit application will
             begin on the date that notice is published in a newspaper of general
             circulation, and will end 30 days after the date of such publication.

       (4)   During the public comment period, any interested person may
             electronically submit comments about the proposed injection permit
             application to the Commission.

       (5)   During the public comment period, any interested person may submit a
             written protest. For any proposed injection permit application that is not
             associated with a Form 2A or Oil and Gas Development Plan application,
             such a protest will also request a Commission hearing about the proposed
             injection permit application pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10). Such protests will
             be evaluated pursuant to Rule 804.b.

b.     Evaluation of Written Requests for Public Hearing. Pursuant to Rule 507.a,
       written requests for public hearing before the Commission by a person who may
       be directly and adversely affected or aggrieved by the authorization of the
       proposed injection permit application will be reviewed and evaluated by the
       Commission. Written protests will specifically provide information about:



                                                                                      399
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)    Possible conflicts between the Injection Zone’s proposed injection use and
              present or future use as a source of drinking water, agricultural water, or
              as a source of hydrocarbon production;

       (2)    How proposed operations at the Class II UIC Well site are not protective of
              potential and current sources of drinking water or agricultural water;

       (3)    How the proposed Class II UIC Well is not protective of applicable
              Colorado water quality standards or public health, safety, welfare, the
              environment, or wildlife resources; or

       (4)    How the application will not protect against adverse environmental
              impacts on any air, water, soil, or biological resource.

805.   ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INJECTION FLUID ANALYSES

a.     Collection and analysis of water samples required by Rules 803, 809, 810, or 811
       will comply with the Commission's approved Underground Injection Control
       Quality Assurance Project Plan, effective October 8, 1997.

b.     Water analyses will include total dissolved solids using routine EPA or oilfield
       methods.

c.     If requested by the Director, the Operator will analyze samples for other
       constituents that may be present in the injection Fluids.

d.     The Operator will report all analyses of water samples with the Electronic Data
       Deliverable (“EDD”) through the Commission’s Environmental Database on a
       Form 43, Analytic Sample Submittal.

806.   TIMING OF INJECTION FLUID SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS

a.     Initial Analysis. An injection Fluid analysis from a representative sample
       collected at the injection facility is required within 1 year of commencing injection
       after approval of an injection application.

b.     Periodic Analysis. An injection Fluid analysis from a representative sample
       collected at the injection facility is required every 5 years after the initial analysis
       or 5 years after the most recent change of source analysis.

c.     Change of Source Analysis. An injection Fluid analysis is required when there
       is a significant change in the quality of the injection Fluid and as required by Rule
       807. The injection Fluid analysis will address all analytes listed in and follow all
       procedures required by Rules 909.j.(1)–(5).




                                                                                            400
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

807.   FORM 26, SOURCE OF PRODUCED WATER FOR DISPOSAL

a.     The Operator of a Class II UIC Well will submit a Form 26, Source of Produced
       Water for Disposal, before commencing injection into the Well(s).

b.     The Operator of a Class II UIC Well will submit a new Form 26 within 90 days
       after any change in source water by addition of new source Wells or the deletion
       of existing source Wells.

808. NON-PRODUCED CLASS II EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION WASTE
INJECTION

a.     Form 14A, Authorization of Source of Class II Waste for Disposal. The
       Operator of a Class II UIC Well will submit and obtain approval of a Form 14A,
       Authorization of Source of Class II Waste for Disposal, prior to the injection of
       Class II E&P Waste other than produced water, pursuant to Rule 413.b, into any
       formation in a Class II UIC Well.

       (1)   The Form 14A will include a description of the nature and source of the
             Fluids to be injected, the types of Chemicals used to treat such Fluids, and
             the proposed date of initial Fluid injection.

       (2)   The Operator will submit a Form 14A and obtain the Director’s approval
             for any new disposal facility, and for any changes in the source of non-
             produced Class II waste for an existing facility.

       (3)   Examples of non-produced water are Fluids that are not classified as a
             hazardous waste at the time of injection, and include Fluids which are
             brought to the surface in connection with natural gas storage operations,
             or conventional oil or natural gas production and may be commingled with
             waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part of production
             operations.

b.     Form 14, Monthly Report of Non-Produced Water Injected.

       (1)   The Operator engaged in the injection of approved non-produced Class II
             waste pursuant to Rule 808.a in a Class II UIC Well will submit a Form 14,
             Monthly Report of Non-Produced Water Injected, within 45 days after the
             end of each month. This report will include the type and amount of Waste
             injected.

       (2)   The Operator of a Simultaneous Injection Well will, by March 1 of each
             year, report to the Director the calculated injected volume for the previous
             year, by month, on a Form 14.

809.   SIMULTANEOUS INJECTION WELL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

a.     Applications for new Simultaneous Injection Wells will:



                                                                                      401
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (1)   Satisfy the requirements of Rules 803, 804, 805, 806, 807, and 808.

       (2)   Include downhole pump specifications and a calculation of maximum
             discharge pressure created under proposed wellbore configuration.
             Downhole pump configurations will be designed to inject below the
             Injection Zone fracture gradient.

810.   COMMERCIAL DISPOSAL WELLS AND FACILITIES

a.     Applications for new Commercial Disposal Wells will:

       (1)   Satisfy the requirements of Rules 803, 804, 805, 806, 807, & 808.

       (2)   Meet the Financial Assurance requirements of Rules 702 & 703.f.

b.     Commercial Disposal Well Facilities will perform continuous seismic monitoring.
       The Operator will provide seismic monitoring data to the Director upon request.

811.   ENHANCED RECOVERY INJECTION PROJECTS

a.     No person will perform any enhanced recovery operations, cycling, or recycling
       operations, including the extraction and separation of liquid hydrocarbons from
       natural gas, nor will any person carry on any other method of unit or cooperative
       development or operation of a Field or a part of either, without having first
       obtained written authorization from the Commission following a hearing pursuant
       to Rule 503.g.(3). Enhanced recovery projects include at least one injection Well
       and one production Well, which may be the same Well for “huff and puff” style
       operations.

b.     Hearing applications for new enhanced recovery injection projects will include the
       following information:

       (1)   Demonstration that the proposed project satisfies the requirements of
             Rules 803, 804, 805, 806, 807, and 808 unless otherwise noted in those
             Rules.

       (2)   Be filed by the Operator, or any one or more of the parties involved in the
             proposed enhanced recovery injection project.

       (3)   Operator Contact. The name, phone, email, and address of all Operators
             in the unit.

       (4)   Unit and Operating Agreements. A copy of the unit or co-operative
             agreement and operating agreement.

       (5)   Multiple Well Applications. An application may include the use of more
             than 1 injection or production Well on the same location, or on more than




                                                                                     402
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            1 location. The application will contemplate a coordinated plan for the
            entire Field.

     (6)    Unit Plan of Operations. This information will supplement the proposed
            injection program summary required by Rule 803. The plan of operations
            will describe how the enhanced recovery project will be operated as a
            system.

     (7)    Casing and Cementing for Enhanced Recovery Injection Wells. A
            casing and cement plan that meets the requirements of Rule 308.b.(6) to
            prevent leakage and damage to Groundwater, oil, or gas resources.

     (8)    Unit Area Owners Map. A map will show the names of Owners of record
            within the unit and within 1/2 mile of the unit boundary, indicating whether
            they are Surface Owners, mineral interest Owners, or working interest
            Owners.

     (9)    Unit Area Well Plat. A plat showing the boundary of the unit area, and the
            Class II UIC Well(s), all offset injection Wells, production Wells, Plugged
            and Abandoned Wells, and dry and abandoned Wells.

     (10)   Unit Area Water Wells Map and List. The application will include a map
            and list of all water wells registered with the Division of Water Resources,
            within the unit area and within 1/2 mile of the unit boundary, including their
            depth.

     (11)   Unit Area of Review. The application will include a review of all existing
            Wells within the unit area and within 1/4 mile of the unit boundary,
            describing existing isolation of Injection Zones, oil and gas production
            formations, Confining Layers, and Underground Sources of Drinking
            Water.

c.   Notice and Date of Hearing for Enhanced Recovery Injection Projects. Upon
     the filing of an enhanced recovery injection project application, the Commission
     will issue a notice of hearing pursuant to Rule 503.a. The application will be set
     for public hearing at a time designated by the Commission.

d.   Notice of Status Change. When any Well in an approved enhanced recovery
     unit operation is converted to or from an injection to production status, the
     Operator will provide notice on a Form 4 within 30 days.




                                                                                      403
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


900 SERIES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PREVENTION

901.   GENERAL STANDARDS

a.     Addressing Impacts and Potential Impacts to Public Health, Safety,
       Welfare, the Environment, and Wildlife Resources. Whenever the Director
       has reasonable cause to determine that an Operator, in the conduct of any Oil
       and Gas Operations, is impacting or threatening to impact public health, safety,
       welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, the Director may require the
       Operator to take action to avoid, minimize, or mitigate the potential impacts to
       public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources, including but
       not limited to:

       (1)    Suspending operations or initiating immediate mitigation measures until
              the cause of the threat or potential threat to public health, safety, welfare,
              the environment, or wildlife resources is identified and the threat or
              potential threat to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or
              wildlife resources is corrected.

       (2)    Submitting a Form 27, Site Investigation and Remediation Workplan, for
              site characterization, Remediation, monitoring, permitting, and the
              establishment of points of compliance.

       (3)    If the Director requires an Operator to take action pursuant to this Rule
              901.a, the Operator may appeal the Director’s decision to the Commission
              pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10). The matter will not be assigned to an
              Administrative Law Judge pursuant to Rule 503.h. The Commission will
              hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Operators will
              continue to comply with any requirements identified by the Director
              pursuant to this Rule 901.a until the Commission makes a decision on the
              appeal. The Commission may uphold the Director’s decision if the
              Commission determines the Director had reasonable cause to determine
              that an Operator’s actions impacted or threatened to impact public health,
              safety, welfare, the environmental, or wildlife resources, and that the
              action required by the Director was necessary and reasonable to avoid,
              minimize, or mitigate those impacts or threatened impacts.

b.     Incorporation by Reference. Pursuant to § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., the
       Commission incorporates by reference into these 900 Series Rules the following
       codes, standards, guidelines, and rules of other federal agencies, state agencies,
       and nationally recognized organizations and associations.

       (1)    Where Materials May Be Found.

              A.     Copies of all materials incorporated by reference are available for
                     public inspection during normal business hours from the Public




                                                                                         404
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
                 Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.

           B.    Copies of all materials incorporated by reference are also available
                 at the office or website of the agency or organization that issued the
                 code, standard, guideline, or rule, as specified below.

           C.    Copies of any materials that are not available to the public on the
                 internet for no cost may be examined at any state publications
                 depository library.

     (2)   Current Version. Only the version of the code, standard, guideline, or rule
           in effect as of January 15, 2020, and no later amendments or editions of
           the code, standard, guideline, or rule are incorporated by reference,
           unless otherwise specified below.

     (3)   Materials Incorporated.

           A.    Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Water
                 Quality Control Commission (“WQCC”), Regulation Number 41,
                 The Basic Standards for Ground Water, 5 C.C.R. § 1002-41, et
                 seq. (hereinafter “WQCC Regulation 41”). Only the version of
                 WQCC Regulation 41 in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies; later
                 amendments do not apply. WQCC Regulation 41 may be examined
                 at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment,
                 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is
                 available online at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/water-quality-control-
                 commission-regulations.

           B.    Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Solid and
                 Hazardous Waste Commission (“SHWC”), Regulations Pertaining
                 to Solid Waste, 6 C.C.R. § 1007-2, et seq. (hereinafter “SHWC
                 Solid Waste Regulations”). Only the version of the SHWC Solid
                 Waste Regulations in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies; later
                 amendments do not apply. The SHWC Solid Waste Regulations
                 may be examined at the Colorado Department of Public Health and
                 Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246,
                 and are available online at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/solid-waste-
                 regulations.

           C.    SHWC Regulations Pertaining to Hazardous Waste, 6 C.C.R. §
                 1007-3, et seq. (hereinafter “SHWC Hazardous Waste
                 Regulations”). Only the version of the SHWC Hazardous Waste
                 Regulations in effect as of January 15, 2021 applies; later
                 amendments do not apply. The SHWC Hazardous Waste
                 Regulations may be examined at the Colorado Department of
                 Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South,




                                                                                   405
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                Denver, CO 80246, and are available online at
                https://cdphe.colorado.gov/hazardous-waste-regulations.

          D.    Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air Quality
                Control Commission (“AQCC”), Regulation No. 7, Control of Ozone
                Via Ozone Precursors and Control of Hydrocarbons Via Oil and
                Gas Emissions (Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds and
                Nitrogen Oxides), 5 C.C.R. § 1001-9, et seq. (hereinafter “AQCC
                Regulation No. 7”). Only the version of AQCC Regulation No. 7 in
                effect as of January 15, 2021 applies; later amendments do not
                apply. AQCC Regulation No. 7 may be examined at the Colorado
                Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek
                Drive South, Denver, CO 80246, and is available online at
                https://cdphe.colorado.gov/aqcc-regulations.

          E.    Colorado State Board of Examiners of Water Well Construction and
                Pump Installation Contractors, Rules and Regulations for Water
                Well Construction, Pump Installation, Cistern Installation, and
                Monitoring and Observation Hole/Well Construction, 2 C.C.R. §
                402-2, et seq. (hereinafter “State Engineer’s Water Well
                Construction and Permitting Rules”). Only the version of the State
                Engineer’s Water Well Construction Rules in effect as of January
                15, 2021 applies; later amendments do not apply. The State
                Engineer’s Water Well Construction and Permitting Rules may be
                examined at the Colorado Division of Water Resources, 1313
                Sherman St., Suite 821, Denver, CO 80203, and are available
                online at https://dwr.colorado.gov/services/well-construction-
                inspection.

          F.    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Test Methods for
                Evaluating Solid Waste: Physical/Chemical Methods (May 2019
                edition) (hereinafter, “EPA SW-846”). Only the May 2019, “Update
                VI” edition of EP SW-846 applies to this rule; later amendments do
                not apply. EPA SW-846 may be examined at the U.S.
                Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St,
                Denver, CO 80202, and is available online at
                https://www.epa.gov/hw-sw846/sw-846-compendium.

          G.    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 40 C.F.R. § 60.5375a,
                What GHG and VOC standards apply to well affected facilities?
                (2016) (hereinafter, “40 C.F.R. § 60.5375a”). Only the version of 40
                C.F.R. § 60.5375a that became effective on August 2, 2016 applies
                to this rule; later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 60.5375a
                may be examined at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
                Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available
                online at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2016-06-
                03/pdf/2016-11971.pdf.



                                                                                406
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              H.     U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Regional Screening Levels
                     for Chemical Contaminants at Super Fund Sites (Nov. 18, 2020)
                     (hereinafter, "EPA’s RSLs"). Only the November 2020 version of
                     EPA's RSLs applies; later amendments do not apply. EPA’s RSLs
                     may be examined at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
                     Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and are available
                     online at https://www.epa.gov/risk/regional-screening-levels-rsls-
                     generic-tables.

              I.     Western Coordinating Committee on Nutrient Management, Soil,
                     Plant and Water Reference Methods for the Western Region (4th
                     edition, 2013). Only the 4th edition (2013) of the Soil, Plant and
                     Water Reference Methods for the Western Region applies to this
                     rule; later amendments do not apply. Soil, Plant and Water
                     Reference Methods for the Western Region may be examined at
                     the Soil Science Society of America, 5585 Guilford Road, Madison,
                     WI 53711, and is available online at
                     https://www.naptprogram.org/files/napt/publications/method-
                     papers/western-states-methods-manual-2013.pdf.

              J.     Rocky Mountain Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board, Rules (Dec.
                     3, 2010). Only the 2010 version of the Rocky Mountain Low-Level
                     Radioactive Waste Board’s Rules apply to this Rule; later
                     amendments do not apply. The Rocky Mountain Low-Level
                     Radioactive Waste Board's Rules may be examined at Rocky
                     Mountain Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board, 999 18th St., Suite
                     2400 S, Denver, CO 80202, and are available online at
                     http://www.rmllwb.us/documents/Rules_12-3-10.pdf.

902.   POLLUTION

a.     Operators will prevent Pollution.

b.     Operators will prevent adverse environmental impacts on any air, water, soil, or
       biological resource resulting from Oil and Gas Operations and will protect and
       minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
       wildlife resources.

c.     Operators will prevent the unauthorized discharge or disposal of oil, condensate,
       gas, E&P Waste, Chemical substances, trash, discarded equipment, and other
       oil field waste.

d.     No Operator, in the conduct of any Oil or Gas Operation, may violate numeric or
       narrative water quality standards or classifications established by the WQCC for
       Waters of the State, or any Point of Compliance established by the Director
       pursuant to Rule 914. The Director may require the Operator to establish one or




                                                                                     407
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       more Points of Compliance for any event of Pollution, which will be complied with
       by all parties determined to be a Responsible Party for such Pollution.

e.     No Operator, in the conduct of any Oil or Gas Operation, may violate any
       applicable air quality law, regulation, or permit as administered by the Air Quality
       Control Commission or any other local or federal agency with authority for
       regulating air quality associated with such activities.

f.     No person may accept water produced from Oil and Gas Operations, or other oil
       field waste for disposal in a commercial disposal facility, without first obtaining a
       certificate of designation from the county in which such facility is located, in
       accordance with the regulations pertaining to Solid Waste Disposal sites and
       facilities as promulgated by CDPHE.

903.   VENTING OR FLARING NATURAL GAS

Venting and Flaring of natural gas represent waste of an important energy resource and
pose safety and environmental risks. Venting and Flaring, except as specifically allowed
in this Rule 903, are prohibited.

a.     Notice to Local Governments and Emergency Responders.

       (1)    Prior Notice. As soon as practicable prior to, but no later than two hours
              before, any planned Flaring of natural gas allowed pursuant to this Rule
              903, Operators will provide verbal, written, or electronic notice to the
              Relevant and Proximate Local Governments and to the local emergency
              response authorities.

       (2)    Subsequent Notice. In the event of Flaring due to an Upset Condition,
              Operators will provide verbal, or electronic notice as soon as possible, but
              no later than 12 hours, to the Relevant and Proximate Local Governments
              and to the local emergency response authorities.

       (3)    Waiver. Relevant and Proximate Local Governments and local emergency
              response authorities may waive their right to notice under this Rule 903.a
              at any time, pursuant to Rule 302.f.(1).A.

       (4)    Recordkeeping. Operators will maintain records of notice provided
              pursuant to this Rule 903.a, and provide the records to the Director upon
              request.

b.     Emissions During Drilling Operations.

       (1)    Operators will capture or combust gas downstream of the mud-gas
              separator using best drilling practices while maintaining safe operating
              conditions.




                                                                                         408
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   If capturing or combusting gas would pose safety risks to onsite
           personnel, Operators may Vent and will provide verbal notification to the
           Director within 12 hours and submit a Form 4, Sundry Notice within 7
           days. The Operator need not seek a formal variance pursuant to Rule 502.
           A Form 23, Well Control Report may also be required if the criteria in Rule
           428.c are met. If Venting pursuant to this Rule 903.b.(2) exceeds 24
           hours, the Operator will seek the Director’s approval to continue Venting.

     (3)   Combustors will be located a minimum of 100 feet from the nearest
           surface hole location and enclosed.

c.   Emissions During Completion Operations.

     (1)   Reduced Emission Completions Practices. Operators will adhere to
           reduced emission completion practices as specified in 40 C.F.R. §
           60.5375a, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b, on all newly
           Completed and re-completed oil and gas Wells regardless of whether the
           Well is hydraulically fractured, unless otherwise specified in this Rule
           903.c.

     (2)   Flowback Vessels. Operators will enclose all Flowback vessels and
           adhere to the AQCC Regulation No. 7 standards for emission reduction
           from pre-production Flowback vessels as specified in 5 C.C.R. § 1001-
           9:D.VI.D, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

     (3)   Operators may Flare gas during completion operations with specific
           written approval from the Director under any of the following
           circumstances:

           A.    The Operator obtains the Director’s approval to Flare through an
                 approved gas capture plan pursuant to Rule 903.e;

           B.    The Operator submits, and the Director approves, a Form 4
                 allowing the Operator to Flare gas that would otherwise not be
                 permitted pursuant to Rule 903.c.

                 i.     On the Form 4 the Operator will explain why Flaring is
                        necessary to Complete the Well, and will protect and
                        minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare,
                        the environment, and wildlife resources.

                 ii.    On the Form 4 the Operator will estimate anticipated Flaring
                        volume and duration.

                 iii.   On the Form 4 the Operator will explain its plan to connect
                        the facility to a Gathering Line or otherwise utilize the gas in
                        the future.




                                                                                     409
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 iv.    The Director may approve a Form 4 requesting permission
                        to Flare during completion if the Director determines that the
                        Flaring is necessary to Complete the Well and will protect
                        and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety,
                        welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources; or

           C.    The Operator may direct gas to an emission control device and
                 combust the gas if necessary to ensure safety or during an Upset
                 Condition for a period not to exceed 24 cumulative hours. If Flaring
                 pursuant to this Rule 903.c.(3).C exceeds 24 hours, the Operator
                 will seek the Director’s approval to continue Flaring. Within 7 days
                 of the Flaring event, the Operator will submit a Form 4 reporting the
                 Upset Condition or safety issues that resulted in the Flaring event
                 and include the estimated volume of gas Flared.

d.   Emissions During Production.

     (1)   After the Commencement of Production Operations at an Oil and Gas
           Location, Venting or Flaring of natural gas produced from any Completed
           Well is prohibited except under the following circumstances:

           A.    Gas Flared or Vented during an Upset Condition is allowed for a
                 period necessary to address the upset, not to exceed 24 cumulative
                 hours. Operators will maintain records of the date, cause, estimated
                 volume of gas Flared or Vented, and duration of each Upset
                 Condition resulting in Flaring or Venting, and will make such
                 records available to the Director upon request.

           B.    Gas Vented during and as part of active and required maintenance
                 and repair activity, including pipeline pigging, as long as the
                 Venting is not prohibited by AQCC Regulation No. 7, 5 C.C.R. §
                 1001-9, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b. Operators will
                 use operational best practices to minimize Venting during
                 maintenance and repair activity.

           C.    If approved by the Director on a Gas Capture Plan pursuant to Rule
                 903.e, gas Flared during a Production Evaluation or Productivity
                 Test for a period not to exceed 60 days.

           D.    Gas Vented during a Bradenhead test pursuant to Rule 419.

           E.    Any event of Well liquids unloading, as long as the Well liquids
                 unloading employs best management practices to minimize
                 hydrocarbon emissions as required by the AQCC Regulation No. 7,
                 5 C.C.R. § 1001-9, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.
                 Operators will capture or Flare gas escaping into the air during
                 liquids unloading if the escape of the gas poses a risk to public
                 health, safety, or welfare due to the risk of a fire, explosion, or



                                                                                  410
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 inhalation. Pursuant to Rule 405.s, all Well liquids unloading,
                 including swabbing, will be reported to the Director. The Operator
                 will submit a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Well
                 Liquids Unloading, no less than:

                 i.     48 hours prior to conducting Well liquids unloading; or

                 ii.    As soon as possible prior to conducting Well liquids
                        unloading if 48 hours notice would require an alternative or
                        extended Well liquids unloading practice that increases
                        emissions.

           F.    Flaring or Venting approved pursuant to Rule 903.d.(3) or on a
                 Form 4 prior to January 15, 2021.

     (2)   For any instance of Venting or Flaring permitted pursuant to Rules
           903.d.(1).A–E for a period that exceeds 8 consecutive or 24 cumulative
           hours, the Operator will submit a Form 4 reporting:

           A.    The estimated or measured volume and content of gas Vented or
                 Flared;

           B.    Gas analysis of the gas Vented or Flared, including hydrogen
                 sulfide;

           C.    Explanation, rationale, and cause for the Venting or Flaring event;
                 and

           D.    A description of any operational best practices used to minimize
                 Venting during maintenance and repair activity.

     (3)   At Wells that have Commenced Production Operations prior to January
           15, 2021 and that are Venting or Flaring natural gas because they are not
           connected to a natural gas Gathering Line or putting the natural gas to
           beneficial use, the Operator may request permission from the Director to
           Flare or Vent by submitting a gas capture plan via a Form 4 no later than
           the date the Operator’s previously approved Form 4 expires and in no
           case later than January 15, 2022. If an Operator loses access to a
           Gathering Line after January 15, 2021, the Operator will submit a gas
           capture plan via a Form 4 within 30 days of losing the Gathering Line
           access. The Operator may not Flare or Vent pursuant to this Rule
           903.d.(3) unless and until the Director approves the Form 4. The Director
           may approve a one-time request to Flare or Vent for a period not to
           exceed 12 months, if the Director determines that Flaring or Venting is
           necessary to produce the Well, will minimize waste, and will protect and
           minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources. For any such Form 4 submitted prior
           to January 15, 2022, the Director will not approve the one-time request to



                                                                                    411
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Flare or Vent to any date after January 15, 2022. The gas capture plan on
           the Form 4 will describe:

           A.      The estimated volume and content of the gas to be Flared or
                   Vented;

           B.      Gas analysis including hydrogen sulfide for the subject Well;

           C.      For requests based on lack of available infrastructure, the Operator
                   will state why the Well cannot be connected to infrastructure;

           D.      When the Well(s) will be connected to infrastructure, why the
                   Operator commenced production of the Well before infrastructure
                   was available, and whether the mineral Owner will be compensated
                   for the Vented or Flared gas; and

           E.      Options for using the gas instead of Flaring or Venting, including to
                   generate electricity, gas processing to recover natural gas liquids,
                   or other options for using the gas.

     (4)   Measurement and Reporting.

           A.      Operators will measure the volume of all gas Vented, Flared, or
                   used at an Oil and Gas Location by direct measurement or by
                   estimating the volume of gas Vented, Flared or used. The volume
                   of gas Vented, Flared, or used will be reported on a per Well basis
                   on the Form 7, Operator’s Monthly Report of Operations.

           B.      Operators will notify all mineral Owners of the volume of oil and gas
                   that is Vented, Flared, or used on-lease. Operators will maintain
                   records of such notice and provide the records to the Director upon
                   request.

     (5)   All Flared gas will be combusted in an enclosed device equipped with an
           auto-igniter or continuous pilot light and a design destruction efficiency of
           at least 98% for hydrocarbons.

     (6)   Pits.

           A.      Pits Constructed After January 15, 2021.

                   i.     Operators will design, construct, and operate new Pits that
                          are within 2,000 feet of an existing Building Unit or
                          Designated Outside Activity Area to emit less than 2 tons per
                          year (“tpy”) volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”).

                   ii.    Operators will design, construct, and operate new Pits within
                          Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas,



                                                                                     412
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       Jefferson, Larimer, and Weld Counties to emit less than 2
                       tpy VOCs.

                iii.   Operators will design, construct, and operate new Pits in
                       locations that do not meet the criteria of Rules 903.d.(6).A.i–
                       ii to emit less than 5 tpy VOCs, unless:

                       aa.    The Pit is used for recycling or reuse of produced
                              water, subject to the approval of a reuse and recycling
                              plan pursuant to Rule 905.a.(3);

                       bb.    The Operator utilizes a centralized water distribution
                              system to minimize trucks used to transport produced
                              water; and

                       cc.    The Director approves the Operator’s plan to
                              minimize emissions pursuant to Rule 903.d.(6).A.iv
                              based on consultation with the Air Pollution Control
                              Division.

                iv.    Operators will design, construct, and operate new Pits to
                       utilize control technology to minimize emissions to the extent
                       reasonably achievable based on best available practices.

          B.    Pits Constructed Prior to January 15, 2021. After January 15,
                2023, all Pits constructed prior to January 15, 2021 will be operated
                to emit less than 5 tpy VOCs, unless:

                i.     The Pit is used for recycling or reuse of produced water and
                       the Pit utilizes control technology to minimize emissions to
                       the extent reasonably achievable, and the Operator submits
                       and obtains the Director’s approval of a reuse and recycling
                       plan that meets the requirements of Rule 905.a.(3); or

                ii.    The Operator submits a Form 15, Earthen Pit Report/Permit
                       pursuant to Rule 903.a.(6).C demonstrating that a greater
                       allowable rate of emissions from the Pit is reasonable and
                       necessary, and the Director approves the Form 15 based on
                       consultation with the Air Pollution Control Division.

          C.    Operators will provide the basis for their determination of
                applicability under Rule 903.d.(6) to the Director on a Form 15
                submitted concurrently with the initial produced water quality
                analysis required by Rule 909.j. The basis for determination of
                applicability will:

                i.     State the Pit’s estimated annual emissions in tpy VOCs;




                                                                                  413
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                ii.    Describe the method used to estimate emissions; and

                iii.   If the Operator seeks an exception pursuant to Rules
                       903.d.(6).B.i or ii, describe the basis for why the exception
                       should be granted.

e.   Gas Capture Plans.

     (1)   Gas Capture Plan Submission.

           A.   On a Form 2A, Oil and Gas Location Assessment the Operator will
                commit to connecting to a gathering system by the Commencement
                of Production Operations, or submit a gas capture plan as an
                attachment to their Form 2A, pursuant to Rule 304.c.(12).

           B.   Gas capture plans will demonstrate compliance with the
                requirements of Rules 903.b–d and include the following
                information:

                i.     A description and map of the location of the closest or
                       contracted natural gas gathering system or point of sale.

                ii.    The name of the company operating the closest or
                       contracted natural gas gathering system.

                iii.   The Operator’s plan for connecting their facility to a natural
                       gas gathering system or otherwise putting gas to beneficial
                       use, including:

                       aa.    Discussion of potential rights of way issues;

                       bb.    Construction schedules;

                       cc.    Date of availability of the gas Gathering Line;

                       dd.    Whether the nearest or contracted gas gathering
                              system has capacity to accept the anticipated gas to
                              be produced at the location at the time of application;
                              and

                       ee.    Options for beneficial use of natural gas that are
                              alternatives to Flaring during production operations
                              prior to connection to gas Gathering Lines, including,
                              but not limited to: onsite use, natural gas liquid
                              processing, electrical power generation, gas to liquid,
                              reinjection for enhanced oil recovery, or other options.




                                                                                   414
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                    iv.     For a Wildcat (Exploratory) Well or if the Operator
                            anticipates conducting a Production Evaluation or
                            Productivity Test, a description of the planned Production
                            Evaluation or Productivity Test and any issues related to the
                            Operator’s ability to connect to a gas Gathering Line.

                    v.      Any anticipated safety risks that will require the Operator to
                            allow gas to escape, rather than being captured or
                            combusted during drilling operations, pursuant to Rule
                            903.b.(2).

                    vi.     A description of operational best practices that will be used
                            to minimize Venting during active and planned maintenance
                            allowed pursuant to Rule 903.d.(1).B.

                    vii.    Procedures the Operator will employ to reduce the frequency
                            of Well liquids unloading events.

                    viii.   Anticipated volumes of liquids and gas production and a
                            description of how separation equipment will be sized to
                            optimize gas capture.

       (2)   Verification. Operators will verify that their facility has been connected to a
             gathering line by submitting a Form 10, Certificate of Clearance pursuant
             to Rule 219.

       (3)   Compliance. If an Operator does not connect its facility to a gathering line
             or otherwise put gas to beneficial use as described in the Operator’s Form
             2A or gas capture plan, the Director may require the Operator to shut in a
             Well until it is connected to a Gathering Line or the gas is put to beneficial
             use. The Operator may request a Commission hearing pursuant to Rule
             503.g.(10), however, the Well will remain shut in until the Commission’s
             hearing occurs.

904.   EVALUATING CUMULATIVE IMPACTS

a.     No later than January 15, 2022, and annually by May 15 thereafter, the Director
       will report the following information to the Commission based on consultation with
       CDPHE, CPW, and the Department of Natural Resources:

       (1)   A report from the Director about:

             A.     Data gathered regarding anticipated and existing impacts in the
                    Cumulative Impacts Data Evaluation Repository (“CIDER”),
                    including but not limited to data regarding impacts to Wildlife
                    Resources, including High Priority Habitat, and a comparison of
                    water volume data reported pursuant to Rules 315.a.(2).C.iv and
                    431.b; and



                                                                                        415
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     Information regarding reclamation during the prior year, including
                  Wells plugged and Locations that achieved final reclamation
                  pursuant to Rule 1004, and information regarding interim
                  reclamation pursuant to Rule 1003;

     (2)   Information from the Air Pollution Control Division (“APCD”) or Air Quality
           Control Commission (“AQCC”) regarding the current status of the
           Greenhouse Gas Pollution Reduction Roadmap and any initiatives
           developed by the APCD and AQCC to achieve Colorado’s statewide
           greenhouse gas emission reductions, and the role of Oil and Gas
           Operations in achieving the reduction targets for the oil and gas sector;

     (3)   Information from the APDC or AQCC regarding the information reported
           pursuant to AQCC Regulation No. 7 in the oil and gas emissions
           inventories, including a summary of the NOx and Greenhouse Gas
           Intensity Targets identified in approved Oil and Gas Development Plans,
           Form 2Bs, Form 2Fs, and Form 4s;

     (4)   Information regarding ambient air quality standard attainment, trends, and
           contributions from Oil and Gas Operations, including ground-level ozone
           ambient air quality standards;

     (5)   Information regarding evolving or new innovative technologies or
           measures, including technologies and measures employed by Operators
           during the prior year, that may provide innovative methods to reduce
           emissions or otherwise avoid, minimize, or mitigate adverse Cumulative
           Impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife
           resources;

     (6)   Any reports prepared or published by other Governmental Agencies or
           academic research institutions that provide relevant information about
           avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating adverse Cumulative Impacts to public
           health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources;

     (7)   Any additional information that is requested by the Commission or that the
           Director determines is relevant to avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating
           adverse Cumulative Impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources; and

     (8)   Any recommendations for future rulemakings, guidance, work groups, or
           studies to address Cumulative Impacts to public health, safety, welfare,
           the environment, or wildlife resources and any air, water, soil, or Biological
           Resources based on the information presented pursuant to Rules
           904.a.(1)–(7).

b.   As a condition of approving an Oil and Gas Development Plan pursuant to Rule
     307.b.(1), the Commission may require an Operator to participate in studies
     evaluating cumulative impacts of oil and gas development that is related to an Oil



                                                                                     416
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       and Gas Location approved pursuant to the Oil and Gas Development Plan, or
       the impacts of that Oil and Gas Location.

       (1)   The studies may be conducted in consultation with CDPHE, CPW, the
             Public Utilities Commission, the Colorado Energy Office, or other third
             parties.

       (2)   Participation in the study may involve providing data, conducting
             investigations, performing monitoring, or other methods of gathering data,
             supplying data to the Director, or providing the Director or other authorized
             party access to a physical location. An Operator participating in a study
             will provide all data and other information gathered as part of the study to
             the Director upon request. Participation in a study will not require an
             Operator to fund the study, unless the Operator chooses to provide
             funding voluntarily.

c.     The Commission may establish an informational docket on its own motion
       pursuant to Rule 503.a. Through the informational docket, the Commission may
       solicit general or specific information necessary and reasonable to evaluate the
       cumulative impacts of Oil and Gas Operations. Participation in the informational
       docket will not require payment of a docket fee or filing fee.

905.   MANAGEMENT OF E&P WASTE

a.     General Requirements.

       (1)   Operator Obligations. Operators will ensure that E&P Waste is properly
             stored, handled, transported, treated, recycled, or disposed to prevent
             threatened or actual adverse environmental impacts to air, water, soil, or
             biological resources, or to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with
             the concentration levels in Table 915-1, radiation control standards, and
             WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
             standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

       (2)   Protecting Waters of the State. Operators will conduct E&P Waste
             management activities, and construct and operate all Oil and Gas
             Locations, to protect the Waters of the State from adverse environmental
             impacts caused by E&P Waste.

       (3)   Reuse and Recycling. To encourage and promote waste minimization,
             Operators may propose plans for managing E&P Waste through beneficial
             use, reuse, and recycling by submitting a written management plan to the
             Director for approval on a Form 4, Form 15, or Form 28, Centralized E&P
             Waste Management Facility Permit. Such plans will describe, at a
             minimum:

             A.     The type(s) of waste;




                                                                                       417
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The proposed volume and use of the waste;

           C.    The method of waste treatment and storage;

           D.    Recycled materials quality assurance;

           E.    Final disposition of the waste;

           F.    A copy of any certification or authorization that may be required by
                 other laws and regulations;

           G.    A proposed timeline for reuse and recycling;

           H.    Beneficial use criteria;

           I.    Anticipated method of transporting waste; and

           J.    Any additional information requested by the Director.

     (4)   Waste Management Plans. Each Operator that generates E&P Waste as
           a result of their operations will prepare a comprehensive waste
           management plan detailing how the Operator will treat, characterize,
           manage, store, dispose, and transport all types of waste generated. The
           Director may require a waste management plan to include a description of
           proposed haul routes, including any applicable Local Government traffic
           requirements.

           A.    Operators will submit their waste management plans with their
                 Form 2A pursuant to Rule 304.c.(11).

           B.    If an Operator seeks to change its E&P Waste management
                 practice, the Operator will update its waste management plan by
                 submitting a revised waste management plan for the Director’s
                 approval or denial on a Form 4.

           C.    Any Oil and Gas Development Plan filed on or after January 1,
                 2026, will include in its waste management plan a Produced Water
                 recycling and reuse plan with a commitment to use the minimum
                 percentages of Recycled Produced Water in Well Stimulations as
                 described in the compliance periods listed in Rule 905.c.(6).A.i
                 through iii.

           D.    The Produced Water recycling and reuse plan will:

                 i.     Quantify the anticipated volumes of Recycled Produced
                        Water used;




                                                                                  418
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  ii.     Include a description of how the Operator will meet the
                          requirements of Rule 905.c.(6);

                  iii.    Describe and request Commission approval for any water
                          used to satisfy the requirements as a Recycled Produced
                          Water Alternative;

                  iv.     Specify the methods and locations for treatment of Produced
                          Water;

                  v.      Specify the means of transporting Produced Water, treated
                          Produced Water, and Recycled Produced Water Alternative
                          to and from off-location treatment facilities;

                  vi.     Include an affirmative commitment that the Operator will not
                          use the chemicals listed in Table 437-1 as additives in
                          Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid;

                  vii.    Include a description of the source of Recycled Produced
                          Water and whether any of the chemicals listed in Table 437-
                          1 are known to be present in the Recycled Produced Water
                          at any concentrations by laboratory analysis or by process
                          knowledge; and

                  viii.   Include any other information that the Director or
                          Commission determines is necessary to ensure the
                          protection of public health, safety, welfare, the environment
                          and wildlife resources during waste management operations.

     (5)   Should evidence indicate that conditions at an active or closed Oil and
           Gas Location, Oil and Gas Facility, or Land Application site where
           produced Fluids and E&P Waste are currently or were previously
           generated, stored, treated, or disposed indicate contaminant
           concentrations in soils or Groundwater exceeding applicable standards,
           then the Commission authorizes the Director to require further
           investigation, Remediation, and Reclamation.

b.   E&P Waste Transportation.

     (1)   Off-Site Transportation Within Colorado. Operators will only transport
           E&P Waste off-site within Colorado to facilities authorized by the Director,
           to permitted commercial waste disposal facilities, permitted commercial
           waste recycling facilities, or beneficial use sites approved to receive E&P
           Waste by CDPHE and the Relevant Local Government.

     (2)   Off-Site Transportation Outside of Colorado. Operators will only
           transport E&P Waste off-site for treatment or waste disposal outside of
           Colorado to facilities authorized and permitted by the appropriate



                                                                                     419
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           regulatory agency in the receiving state. Operators will comply with the
           Rocky Mountain Low-level Radioactive Waste Board’s Rules, as
           incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

     (3)   Waste Generator Requirements. Any Operator that generates E&P
           Waste that is transported off-site will maintain, for not less than 5 years,
           copies of each invoice, bill, or ticket, and such other records as necessary
           to document the requirements listed in Rules 905.b.(3).A–F. Such records
           will be signed by the transporter and provided to the Director upon
           request.

           A.    The date of the transport;

           B.    The identity of the waste generator;

           C.    The identity of the waste transporter;

           D.    The location of the waste pickup site;

           E.    The type and volume of waste; and

           F.    The name and location of the treatment or disposal site.

c.   Produced Water.

     (1)   Treatment of Produced Water. Operators will treat produced water prior
           to placing it in a production pit to prevent crude oil, condensate, or
           hydrocarbon sheen from entering the Pit.

     (2)   Produced Water Disposal. Produced water may be disposed as follows:

           A.    Injection into a Class II UIC Well, permitted pursuant to the
                 Commission’s 800 Series Rules, or a Class I well permitted by
                 EPA;

           B.    Evaporation/percolation in a properly permitted Pit at an Oil and
                 Gas Location, operated in accordance with permit conditions that
                 will not cause a violation of any applicable WQCC Regulation 41
                 numeric or narrative Groundwater quality standards and
                 classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b;

           C.    Disposal at permitted commercial facilities;

           D.    Discharging into Waters of the State under the following conditions
                 pursuant to the Water Quality Control Act and all applicable
                 regulations.




                                                                                      420
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 i.     Operators will provide the Colorado discharge permit
                        number, latitude and longitude coordinates pursuant to Rule
                        216.e of the discharge outfall, and sources of produced
                        water on a Form 26, Source of Produced Water for Disposal,
                        and will include a U.S. Geological Survey topographic map
                        showing the location of the discharge outfall.

                 ii.    If the discharge outfall is not located immediately at the
                        receiving water body, the Operator will prevent surface
                        impacts such as erosion or contamination that can result
                        from the produced water flowing across the land surface.

                 iii.   Produced water discharged pursuant to this Rule 905.c.(2).D
                        may be put to beneficial use in accordance with applicable
                        state statutes and regulations governing the use and
                        administration of water.

           E.    Evaporation in a properly lined Pit at a Centralized E&P Waste
                 Management Facility permitted pursuant to Rule 907.

     (3)   Produced Water Reuse and Recycling. Operators may reuse produced
           water for enhanced recovery, drilling, completion, and other approved
           uses in a manner consistent with existing water rights and in consideration
           of water quality standards and classifications established by the WQCC
           for Waters of the State, or any Point of Compliance established by the
           Director pursuant to Rule 914.

     (4)   Mitigation. Operators may use water produced during operation of an oil
           or gas Well to provide an alternative domestic water supply to Surface
           Owners within the oil or gas Field, pursuant to all applicable laws,
           including, but not limited to, obtaining the necessary approvals from the
           Water Quality Control Division for constructing a new “waterworks,” as
           defined by § 25-1.5-203(1)(b)(II)(A), C.R.S. Any produced water not so
           used will be disposed of pursuant to Rules 905.c.(2) or (3). Providing
           produced water for domestic use within the meaning of this Rule 905.c.(4)
           will not constitute an admission by the Operator that the Well is
           dewatering or impacting any existing water well. The water produced will
           be to the benefit of the Surface Owner within the oil and gas Field and
           may not be sold for profit or traded.

     (5)   Water Sharing Agreements. Operators will submit agreements for
           sharing produced water for the Director’s approval or denial no less than
           60 days in advance of implementing the water sharing plan. The plan will
           be submitted as a waste management plan pursuant to Rule 905.a.(4).

     (6)   Requirements for the Recycling or Reuse of Produced Water.




                                                                                     421
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          A.    Operators will increase the usage of Recycled Produced Water,
                Recycled Produced Water Alternative, and Recycled Produced
                Water Credits and decrease the amount of Fresh Water utilized in
                Well Stimulations according to the following schedule of
                “compliance periods”:

                i.     Beginning January 1, 2026, an Operator’s geologic basin-
                       wide combined oil and gas developments permitted on Oil
                       and Gas Development Plans filed after January 1, 2026, and
                       the combined subsequent operations to recomplete or
                       restimulate any existing Well within the relevant geologic
                       basin, will use a minimum average of 4% Recycled
                       Produced Water and Recycled Produced Water Alternative
                       for Well Stimulations commenced before January 1, 2030.

                ii.    Beginning January 1, 2030, an Operator’s geologic basin-
                       wide combined oil and gas development, regardless of when
                       the Wells were permitted, will use a minimum average of
                       10% Recycled Produced Water and Recycled Produced
                       Water Alternative for Well Stimulations commenced before
                       January 1, 2034.

                iii.   No later than June 1, 2028, the Commission will convene a
                       rulemaking to adopt additional minimum averages for new
                       compliance periods that will commence on January 1, 2034
                       and January 1, 2038. In such rulemaking the Commission
                       will consider additional work and recommendations by the
                       Produced Water Consortium on Produced Water availability
                       and achievable minimum averages, including consideration
                       of whether to include other Recycled Produced Water
                       Alternative sources. In the absence of additional rulemaking,
                       the minimum averages of 20% for the period beginning
                       January 1, 2034 and 35% for the period beginning January
                       1, 2038 will become law.

          B.    Demonstration of Compliance. Operators will demonstrate
                compliance with the requirements of Rule 905.c.(6).A on Forms 47
                and Annual Certifications (as defined in Subpart D below) using the
                calculation required by Rule 431.e.(2).G.

          C.    Recycled Produced Water Credits. If an Operator’s compliance
                demonstration under Rule 905.c.(6).B shows that the Operator’s
                average percentage of Recycled Produced Water and Recycled
                Produced Water Alternative within a specific geologic basin
                exceeds the percentage required by Rule 905.c.(6).A for the
                reporting period, the Operator may claim Recycled Produced Water
                Credits for the total volume of Recycled Produced Water and



                                                                                422
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                Recycled Produced Water Alternative used above the minimum
                during the reporting period.

                i.     An Operator creating a Recycled Produced Water Credit
                       must identify that Recycled Produced Water Credit in a Form
                       47 or Annual Certification (as defined in Subpart D below). If
                       the Operator creating the Recycled Produced Water Credit
                       chooses to apply the Recycled Produced Water Credit to its
                       own compliance demonstration, it will do so through its Form
                       47 or Annual Certification (as defined in Subpart D below). In
                       this event, the Recycled Produced Water Credit must be
                       used within the same compliance period or within 24 months
                       after the compliance period in which the Recycled Produced
                       Water Credit was created.

                ii.    If a Recycled Produced Water Credit is subsequently
                       transferred to a third-party Operator, the transferor Operator
                       will submit a Form 48 within ten days of the transfer. The
                       Operator shall identify: (1) the Form 47 on which the
                       Recycled Produced Water Credit was established; (2) the
                       number of Recycled Produced Water Credits being
                       transferred; and (3) the Operator receiving the Recycled
                       Produced Water Credits. Recycled Produced Water Credits
                       created by operations in one geologic basin may not be
                       transferred outside of that geologic basin.

                iii.   An Operator who acquires a Recycled Produced Water
                       Credit from a third-party Operator may apply that Recycled
                       Produced Water Credit to the receiving Operator’s average
                       percentage of Recycled Produced Water for the relevant
                       compliance period in a Form 47 or Annual Certification. A
                       Recycled Produced Water Credit that is acquired from a
                       third-party Operator must be used within the same
                       compliance period or within 24 months after the compliance
                       period in which the Recycled Produced Water Credit was
                       created.

                iv.    The Director will maintain a centralized ledger that tracks the
                       generation, usage, and trading of Recycled Produced Water
                       Credits. In maintaining this ledger, the Director will review
                       Form 47s creating and applying Recycled Produced Water
                       Credits and Form 48s transferring Recycled Produced Water
                       Credits to confirm that the claimed Recycled Produced
                       Water Credits have been properly created, transferred, and
                       applied towards compliance with Rule 905.c.(6).A.




                                                                                  423
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                v.     An Operator may not create Recycled Produced Water
                       Credits for exceeding the 50% requirement during the first
                       year of any compliance period, but the Operator may create
                       Recycled Produced Water Credits for exceeding the 100%
                       requirement during the first year of any compliance period.

                vi.    An Operator found by the Commission to have intentionally
                       misrepresented Recycled Produced Water Credits in either
                       an OFV or AOC will be prohibited from creating, applying,
                       conveying or acquiring Recycled Produced Water Credits.

          D.    Consideration of an Operator’s Recycled Produced Water
                Target Status. No later than April 1 of each year, beginning in
                2027, Operators will submit a certification to the Director (“Annual
                Certification”) providing whether the Operator has met the water
                usage requirements set forth in Rule 905.c.(6).A in the preceding
                year(s) of a compliance period; provided, however, that in the first
                year of any compliance period, the Operator need only demonstrate
                that it has met 50% of the water usage percentage set forth in Rule
                905.c.(6).A for that compliance period, and in each subsequent
                year of a compliance period, the Operator must demonstrate it has
                averaged 100% of the water usage percentage set forth in Rule
                905.c.(6).A over all applicable Wells for the four year compliance
                period.

                i.     If an Operator is unable to certify it has met the Rule
                       905.c.(6).A water usage requirement in its Annual
                       Certification, then the Operator will submit, within 30 days of
                       its Annual Certification, an Annual Compliance Plan that
                       describes in detail the actions the Operator will take during
                       the remainder of a compliance period to come into
                       compliance with the Operator’s Rule 905.c.(6).A percentage
                       target by the applicable compliance deadline, as well as
                       benchmarks to measure the Operator’s consistent progress
                       toward meeting the applicable compliance deadline.

                ii.    Following its submission of an Annual Compliance Plan, the
                       Operator will provide, in its quarterly Form 47, the steps the
                       Operator took in the preceding quarter in furtherance of its
                       Annual Compliance Plan to comply with the Operator’s Rule
                       905.c.(6).A percentage target by the applicable compliance
                       deadline (“Compliance Report”).

                iii.   Once an Operator demonstrates in its Compliance Report, or
                       in a subsequent Annual Certification, that the Operator is
                       meeting its Rule 905.c.(6).A percentage target, then the
                       Operator need not continue to submit a Compliance Report.



                                                                                   424
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iv.    If an Operator has not met the Rule 905.c.(6).A water usage
                       requirement by the end of the four-year compliance period,
                       as part of the Director’s recommendation pursuant to Rule
                       306.b and Rule 314.g, the Director will condition approval of
                       the Operator’s new Oil and Gas Development Plans and
                       Comprehensive Area Plans to meet or exceed the Rule
                       905.c.(6).A water usage requirement by the end of the next
                       compliance period. This will continue for all of the Operator’s
                       applications submitted pursuant to Rule 306 and Rule 314,
                       until the Operator can certify it is meeting the Rule
                       905.c.(6).A water usage requirement in its Annual
                       Certification.

                v.     If an Operator has not met the Rule 905.c.(6).A water usage
                       requirement by the end of the four-year compliance period,
                       as part of the Commission’s review of the Director’s
                       Recommendation pursuant to Rule 307 and 314.h, the
                       Commission will condition approval of all the Operator’s new
                       Oil and Gas Development Plans and Comprehensive Area
                       Plans to meet or exceed the Rule 905.c.(6).A water usage
                       requirement by the end of the next compliance period. This
                       will continue for all of the Operator’s applications submitted
                       pursuant to Rule 306 and Rule 314, until the Operator can
                       certify it is meeting the Rule 905.c.(6).A water usage
                       requirement in its Annual Certification.

                vi.    If the Director determines that the information supplied on an
                       Operator’s Annual Compliance Plans and Compliance
                       Report indicates that an Operator will be unable to comply
                       with the Operator’s Rule 905.c.(6).A percentage target by
                       the applicable compliance deadline, the Director will require
                       the Operator to take such actions as the Director deems
                       necessary to assure compliance with the Operator’s Rule
                       905.c.(6).A percentage target by the applicable compliance
                       deadline.

                vii.   If an Operator has not met the Rule 905.c.(6).A water usage
                       requirement by the end of the compliance period, the volume
                       of Recycled Produced Water, Recycled Produced Water
                       Alternative, or Recycled Produced Water Credits necessary
                       to bring the Operator into compliance will carry over and be
                       added to the requirements to be met by the Operator in the
                       next compliance period. This carryover will be a separate
                       requirement in addition to meeting the next compliance
                       period requirements. Operators out of compliance at the end
                       of a compliance period will be subject to Rule 905.c.(6).D.iv.
                       and v. until the Operator has submitted an Annual



                                                                                  425
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                          Certification that it has come into compliance and has
                          addressed the carryover from the previous compliance
                          period.

                  viii.   If the Director requires an Operator to take action pursuant
                          to Rule 905.c.(6).D.vi, the Operator may appeal the
                          Director’s decision to the Commission pursuant to Rule
                          503.g.(10). The matter will not be assigned to an
                          Administrative Law Judge or Hearing Officer. The
                          Commission will hear the appeal at its next regularly
                          scheduled meeting. The Commission may uphold the
                          Director’s decision if the Commission determines that the
                          Director had reasonable cause to determine that the
                          required actions are necessary to assure compliance with
                          the Operator’s Rule 905.c.(6).A percentage target by the
                          applicable compliance deadline.

           E.     Water Use Consistent with Limitations. Unless an Operator can
                  show that water will be diverted from the stream system only during
                  Free River conditions, when all water rights are satisfied, the Fresh
                  Water used in drilling and completion operations must be used in
                  accordance with any limitations on a water right, permit or
                  administrative approval for industrial use.

d.   Drilling Fluids.

     (1)   Reuse and Recycling. Operators may recycle drilling Pit contents for
           reuse at another drilling Pit that is properly permitted and operated
           pursuant to Rules 908, 909, & 910.

     (2)   Treatment and Disposal. Operators will treat or dispose of drilling Fluids
           through:

           A.     Injection into a Class II UIC Well permitted pursuant to the
                  Commission’s 800 Series Rules;

           B.     Disposal at a commercial Solid Waste Disposal facility; or

           C.     Land Treatment or Land Application at a Centralized E&P Waste
                  Management Facility permitted pursuant to Rule 907.

     (3)   Additional Authorized Disposal of Water-Based Bentonitic Drilling
           Fluids. Operators may dispose of water-based bentonitic drilling fluids
           through one of the following methods:

           A.     Drying and burial in Pits on Non-Crop Land, if:




                                                                                    426
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     The resulting concentrations will not exceed the
                       concentration levels in Table 915-1; and

                ii.    The Director approves the Operator’s plan for closing the Pit
                       pursuant to a prior approved Form 27.

          B.    Land Application if permitted by a waste management plan
                approved by the Director pursuant to Rule 905.a.(4), and if the
                Operator complies with the following standards:

                i.     Application Methods. Acceptable methods of Land
                       Application include, but are not limited to, Production Facility
                       construction and maintenance, lease road maintenance, and
                       offsite beneficial reuse, subject to Rule 905.a.(4).

                ii.    Land Application Requirements.

                       aa.    The average thickness of water-based bentonitic
                              drilling Fluid waste applied will be no more than 3
                              inches.

                       bb.    Operators will incorporate the drilling Fluid waste
                              through mechanical means into the uppermost soil
                              horizon.

                       cc.    The waste will be applied to prevent ponding or
                              erosion and will be incorporated as a beneficial
                              amendment into the native soils within 10 days of
                              application.

                       dd.    Operators will not apply water-based bentonitic drilling
                              Fluids to Non-Crop Land.

                       ee.    Prior to application, Operators will analyze water-
                              based bentonitic drilling Fluid waste to ensure that
                              concentrations of contaminants of concern in water-
                              based bentonitic drilling Fluids do not exceed
                              concentrations in Table 915-1.

                       ff.    The results of sampling analysis demonstrating
                              compliance with Table 915-1 will be provided to the
                              Director upon request.

                iii.   Surface Owner & Relevant Local Government Approval.
                       Operators will obtain written authorization from the Relevant
                       Local Government, if required, and the Surface Owner prior
                       to Land Application of water-based bentonitic drilling Fluids




                                                                                    427
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         and provide the written authorization to the Director upon
                         request.

                   iv.   Recordkeeping. Operators will maintain records of the
                         information listed in Rules 905.d.(3).B.iv.aa–cc for 5 years,
                         pursuant to Rule 206.f. Operators will provide all such
                         records to the Director within 5 days, upon request:

                         aa.    The source of any water-based bentonitic drilling
                                Fluids applied;

                         bb.    The volume of any water-based bentonitic drilling
                                Fluids applied; and

                         cc.    The location where the Land Application of the water-
                                based bentonitic drilling Fluid occurred.

                   v.    Operator Responsibility. The Operator with control and
                         authority over the Well(s) from which the water-based
                         bentonitic drilling fluid wastes were obtained retains
                         responsibility for the Land Application operation. All
                         Operators will cooperate with the Director in responding to
                         complaints regarding Land Application of water-based
                         bentonitic drilling Fluids.

e.   Oily Waste.

     (1)   Treatment and Disposal. Operators may treat or dispose of Oily Waste
           through one of the following methods:

           A.      Disposal at a commercial Solid Waste Disposal facility;

           B.      Land Treatment onsite pursuant to 905.e.(2); or

           C.      Land Treatment at a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility
                   permitted pursuant to Rule 907.

           D.      Onsite treatment, for Oily Waste other than Tank bottoms, using
                   alternative methods described on a Form 27 submitted to the
                   Director for prior approval.

     (2)   Land Treatment Requirements.

           A.      Prior to commencing any Land Treatment, Operators will submit
                   and obtain approval of a Form 27. The Form 27 will include, at a
                   minimum:




                                                                                      428
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                i.     A site diagram depicting the location of the planned Land
                       Treatment area;

                ii.    The duration of the planned treatment; and

                iii.   The Operator’s plan for final disposition of the treated Oily
                       Waste.

          B.    Operators will adhere to the approved plan provided with the Form
                27 and Rules 907 and 915 when performing Land Treatment.

          C.    Operators will remove free oil from the Oily Waste prior to Land
                Treatment.

          D.    Operators will spread Oily Waste evenly to prevent pooling,
                ponding, and runoff.

          E.    Operators will prevent Pollution of Stormwater Runoff,
                Groundwater, and surface water.

                i.     Operators will establish stormwater controls and use Best
                       Management Practices to prevent contaminated stormwater
                       from leaving the Land Treatment area.

                ii.    Operators will establish Land Treatment areas where
                       contaminant mobility, soil type, or depth to Groundwater
                       prevent downward migration of contaminants that would
                       cause a violation of any WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and
                       narrative Groundwater quality standards and classifications,
                       as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

                iii.   Operators will establish Land Treatment areas a minimum of
                       200 feet from the ordinary high water mark of a surface
                       water.

                iv.    The Director may require the use of a liner beneath the Land
                       Treatment area as a condition of approval on the Form 27,
                       as appropriate.

          F.    Operators will enhance biodegradation by routine disking, tilling,
                aerating, or addition of nutrients, microbes, water or other
                amendments, at a predetermined frequency pursuant to the
                approved Form 27.

          G.    When Operators incorporate land-treated Oily Waste in place or
                beneficially reuse it, the treated waste may not exceed the cleanup
                concentrations in Table 915-1, including inorganic constituents and
                metals.



                                                                                     429
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           H.     Surface Owner Consent.

                  i.     If an Operator intends to conduct Land Treatment in an area
                         not being utilized for Oil and Gas Operations, the Operator
                         will obtain the Surface Owner’s consent to conduct the Land
                         Treatment operations on the Surface Owner’s property, and
                         provide a copy of the signed agreement with the Surface
                         Owner to the Director with the Form 27 prior to proceeding
                         with Land Treatment.

                  ii.    If an Operator intends to conduct Land Treatment on an
                         approved Oil and Gas Location prior to completion of interim
                         Reclamation or on the surface disturbance remaining after
                         interim reclamation, the Operator will provide notice to the
                         Surface Owner at least 30 days before commencing the
                         Land Treatment. Notice will, at a minimum, include a site
                         diagram depicting the location of the planned Land
                         Treatment area, the duration of the planned treatment, and
                         planned final disposition of the waste.

           I.     Operators will conduct Land Treatment in a manner that does not
                  preclude compliance with Rules 1003 and 1004.

           J.     Operators will not conduct Land Treatment of Oily Waste on an Oil
                  and Gas Location after the final Well has been plugged. Oily Waste
                  will be treated or disposed pursuant to Rules 905.e.1.(A) or (C).

           K.     Operators will conduct Land Treatment in a manner that achieves
                  compliance with Table 915-1 concentrations in three years or less.
                  If the treated waste does not comply with Table 915-1 within three
                  years of the date of Land Treatment, the Operator will submit a
                  Form 28 at least 90 days in advance of the 3-year anniversary of
                  the Land Treatment Form 27 approval date. Failure to comply with
                  Table 915-1 in 3 years or to submit a Form 28 will result in the
                  requirement to immediately remove and properly dispose any
                  remaining Oily Waste pursuant to Rules 905.e.1.(A) or (C).

f.   Other E&P Waste. Operators may treat and dispose other E&P Waste, including
     but not limited to workover Fluids, Tank bottoms, pigging wastes from Pipelines,
     and gas gathering, processing, and storage wastes through one of the following
     methods:

     (1)   Disposal at a commercial Solid Waste Disposal facility;

     (2)   Treatment at a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility permitted
           pursuant to Rule 907;




                                                                                 430
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)    Injection into a Class II UIC Well permitted pursuant to the Commission’s
            800 Series Rules; or

     (4)    An alternative method proposed in a waste management plan pursuant to
            Rule 905.a.(4) and approved by the Director.

g.   Drill Cuttings. Operators will treat or dispose of drill cuttings through one of the
     following methods:

     (1)    Oily Waste. Operators will manage the following drill cuttings as Oily
            Waste pursuant to Rule 905.e:

            A.     Drill cuttings generated from oil-based drilling fluids;

            B.     Drill cuttings that exceed Table 915-1 concentrations for organic
                   compounds in soil; and

            C.     Drill cuttings that have not been sampled and analyzed to
                   demonstrate compliance with Table 915-1 for organic compounds
                   in soil.

     (2)    Drill Cuttings. Operators will demonstrate compliance with Table 915-1
            through sampling and analysis. Management of drill cuttings that exceed
            Table 915-1 for constituents listed under soil suitability for Reclamation by
            the methods listed below is subject to prior approval by the Director,
            pursuant to Rule 915.b. Operators may manage drill cuttings that comply
            with Table 915-1, are not Oily Waste, and are generated using water-
            based bentonitic drilling Fluids through one of the following methods:

            A.     Disposal at a commercial Solid Waste Disposal facility;

            B.     Disposal at a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility
                   permitted pursuant to Rule 907;

            C.     Subject to Surface Owner approval, Land Application as a
                   beneficial soil amendment to native soil subject to a waste
                   management plan approved pursuant to Rule 905.a.(4).

            D.     If permitted by Rule 1003.d, and subject to Surface Owner
                   approval, drying and burial in on-location drilling Pits that are
                   documented with a Form 27 submitted for prior Director approval
                   for closure of the Pit; or

            E.     Subject to Surface Owner approval, and prior Director approval of a
                   Form 27, burial in a Cuttings Trench.




                                                                                       431
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

906.   MANAGEMENT OF NON-E&P WASTE

a.     Certain wastes generated by Oil and Gas Operations that do not meet the 100
       Series definition of E&P Waste are regulated as solid or hazardous wastes by
       CDPHE’s Solid and Hazardous Waste Commission (“SHWC”). Operators will
       properly identify and dispose of these wastes pursuant to applicable state and
       federal regulations.

b.     The SHWC Hazardous Waste Regulations, as incorporated by reference in Rule
       901.b, require that a hazardous waste determination be made for any non-E&P
       solid waste. Operators will comply with all hazardous waste storage, treatment,
       and disposal requirements in the SHWC’s Hazardous Waste Regulations, as
       incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

c.     All non-hazardous/non-E&P Wastes are considered solid waste. Operators will
       comply with all storage, treatment, and disposal requirements in the SHWC’s
       Solid Waste Regulations, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

d.     Operators will not burn or bury non-E&P Waste on Oil and Gas Locations.

907.   CENTRALIZED E&P WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES

a.     Applicability. Operators may establish non-commercial, Centralized E&P Waste
       Management Facilities for the treatment, disposal, recycling, or beneficial reuse
       of E&P Waste. This Rule 907 applies only to non-commercial facilities, which
       means the Operator does not represent itself as providing E&P Waste
       management services to third parties, except as part of a unitized area or joint
       operating agreement or in response to an emergency. Centralized E&P Waste
       Management Facilities may include components such as Land Treatment or
       Land Application sites, Pits, and recycling equipment.

b.     Permit Requirements. Before any Operator commences construction of a
       Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility, the Operator will file and obtain the
       Director’s approval of an application on a Form 28, Centralized E&P Waste
       Management Facility Permit, and pay a filing fee established by the Commission
       (see Appendix III). The Operator will submit a Form 28 application at the same
       time it submits any permit applications required by the Commission’s 300 Series
       Rules, if any, including an Oil and Gas Development Plan or a Form 2A. In
       addition, the Form 28 will contain the following:

       (1)   The name, address, phone and email address of the Operator, and a
             designated contact person.

       (2)   The name, address, phone number, email address, and written
             authorization of the Surface Owner of the site, if not the Operator.

       (3)   The legal description of the site.




                                                                                    432
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   A general topographic, geologic, and hydrologic description of the site,
           including immediately adjacent land uses and a topographic map of a
           scale no less than 1:24,000 showing the location and the average annual
           precipitation and evaporation rates at the site.

     (5)   Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility Siting Requirements
           and Limitations.

           A.    A site plan showing drainage patterns and any diversion or
                 containment structures, and facilities such as roads, fencing, tanks,
                 Pits, buildings, and other construction details.

           B.    Scaled drawings of entire sections containing the proposed facility.
                 The field measured distances from the nearer north or south and
                 nearer east or west section lines will be measured at 90 degrees
                 from said section lines to facility boundaries and referenced on the
                 drawing. A survey will be provided including a complete description
                 of established monuments or collateral evidence found and all
                 aliquot corners.

           C.    The facility will be designed to control public access, prevent
                 unauthorized vehicular traffic, provide for site security both during
                 and after operating hours, and prevent illegal dumping of wastes.
                 Appropriate measures will also be implemented to prevent access
                 to the Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility by wildlife or
                 domestic animals.

           D.    Centralized E&P Waste Management Facilities will have a fire lane
                 of at least 10 feet in width around the perimeter of the active
                 treatment areas and within the facility fencing. In addition, a buffer
                 zone of at least 10 feet will be maintained within the perimeter fire
                 lane.

           E.    Surface water diversion structures, including but not limited to
                 berms and ditches, will be constructed to accommodate a 100-year,
                 24-hour storm event. The facility will be designed and constructed
                 with a run-on control system to prevent flow onto the facility during
                 peak discharge and a run-off control system to contain the water
                 volume from a 25-year, 24-hour storm event.

           F.    Operators will provide evidence that they have complied with any
                 Relevant Local Government land use regulations and facility siting
                 or construction or operation requirements.

           G.    Operators will not construct new Centralized E&P Waste
                 Management Facilities within 2,000 feet of the nearest Building Unit
                 or High Occupancy Building Unit, unless all Building Unit owners
                 and tenants within 2,000 feet consent to a closer location.



                                                                                    433
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           H.    Operators are prohibited from siting new centralized Produced
                 Water storage or treatment facilities within Disproportionately
                 Impacted Communities. This prohibition does not apply to any
                 Produced Water storage or treatment facilities excluded from the
                 definition of Centralized E&P Waste Management Facilities.

     (6)   Waste Profile. For each type of waste, Operators will estimate the
           amounts to be received and managed by the facility on a monthly average
           basis. For each waste type to be treated, Operators will complete a
           characteristic waste profile, which will include analysis of representative
           waste samples by an accredited laboratory.

     (7)   Facility Design and Engineering. Facility design and engineering data,
           incorporating Best Management Practices, including plans and elevations,
           design basis, calculations, and process description. Facility design,
           engineering, and as-constructed plans will be reviewed and stamped by a
           Colorado Professional Engineer (“P.E.”).

           A.    Geologic data, including, but not limited to:

                 i.     Type and thickness of unconsolidated soils;

                 ii.    Type and thickness of consolidated bedrock, if applicable;

                 iii.   Local and regional geologic structures; and

                 iv.    Any Geologic Hazards that may affect the design and
                        operation of the facility.

           B.    Hydrologic data, including, but not limited to:

                 i.     Water wells within 1 mile of the site boundary including, but
                        not limited to, information such as well construction details,
                        total depth, static water level, screened interval(s), yields,
                        and Aquifer name(s).

                 ii.    Surface water features within 2 miles;

                 iii.   Site location in relation to the Floodplain of nearby surface
                        water features;

                 iv.    Depth to Groundwater, including specifically identifying the
                        shallowest unconfined Groundwater and any underlying
                        Groundwater formations;

                 v.     Existing quality of the shallowest Groundwater;




                                                                                    434
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 vi.    Hydrologic properties of the shallowest Groundwater at the
                        location including flow direction, flow rate, and potentiometric
                        surface; and

                 vii.   An evaluation of the potential for impacts to nearby surface
                        water and Groundwater.

           C.    Engineering data, including, but not limited to:

                 i.     Type and quantity of material required for use as a liner,
                        including design components;

                 ii.    Location and depth of cut for liners;

                 iii.   Design of leak detection system for Pits or other containment
                        systems;

                 iv.    Location, dimensions, and grades of all surface water
                        diversion structures;

                 v.     Location and dimensions of all surface water containment
                        structures; and

                 vi.    Location of all proposed facility structures and access roads.

     (8)   Operating Plan. An operating plan, incorporating Best Management
           Practices, including, but not limited to:

           A.    A detailed description of the method of treatment, loading rates,
                 and application of nutrients and soil amendments;

           B.    Dust and moisture control;

           C.    Sampling;

           D.    Inspection and maintenance;

           E.    Emergency response;

           F.    Recordkeeping;

           G.    Site security;

           H.    Hours of operation;

           I.    Stormwater management plan;

           J.    Noise, visual impacts, and odor mitigation; and




                                                                                     435
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            K.    Final disposition of waste. If the Operator intends to beneficially
                  reuse treated waste, the Operator will describe the reuse and
                  method of product quality assurance.

     (9)    Groundwater Monitoring.

            A.    Water Wells. Operators will collect water samples from water wells
                  known to the Operator or registered with the Colorado State
                  Engineer, following all protocols established by Rule 615, except
                  that the Operator will collect water samples from known water wells
                  within 1 mile of the proposed Centralized E&P Waste Management
                  Facility. An Operator may request an exception from the
                  requirements of this Rule 907.b.(9).A by submitting a Form 4
                  pursuant to Rule 615.c.

            B.    Site-Specific Monitoring Wells.

                  i.     As a condition of approval, the Director may require the
                         Operator to install site-specific monitoring wells to ensure
                         compliance with the concentration levels in Table 915-1 and
                         WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                         901.b, by establishing Points of Compliance.

                  ii.    All monitoring well construction must be completed pursuant
                         to the State Engineer’s Water Well Construction and
                         Permitting Rules, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                         901.b.

                  iii.   Where monitoring is required, the direction of flow,
                         Groundwater gradient, and quality of water will be
                         established by the installation of a minimum of 3 monitor
                         wells, including an up-gradient well and 2 down-gradient
                         wells that will serve as Points of Compliance, or other
                         methods authorized by the Director.

                  iv.    The Operator will propose for prior Director approval
                         monitoring schedules, reporting schedules, and appropriate
                         analyte lists.

     (10)   Surface Water Monitoring. Where applicable, the Director will require
            baseline and periodic surface water monitoring to ensure compliance with
            WQCC surface water standards and classifications, including narrative
            standards. Operators will use reasonable good faith efforts to obtain
            access to such surface water for the purpose of collecting water samples.
            If access cannot be obtained, then the Operator will notify the Director of
            the surface water for which access was not obtained and sampling of such
            surface water by the Operator will not be required.




                                                                                        436
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (11)   Contingency Plan. A contingency plan that describes the emergency
            response operations for the facility, 24-hour contact information for the
            person who has authority to initiate emergency response actions, contact
            information of local emergency response authorities, and an outline of
            responsibilities under any joint operating agreement regarding
            maintenance, operations, closure, and monitoring of the facility.

c.   Permit Review.

     (1)    Within 90 days of the submission for a Form 28, the Director will issue a
            determination about whether the Form 28 application is complete.

     (2)    The Director may approve the Centralized E&P Waste Management
            Facility permit if it protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public
            health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. The
            Director may require any conditions of approval that are determined to be
            necessary and reasonable to protect public health, safety, welfare, the
            environment, and wildlife resources, or to the extent necessary to ensure
            compliance with the concentration levels in Table 915-1, or WQCC
            Regulation 41 Groundwater standards and classifications, as incorporated
            by reference in Rule 901.b.

     (3)    The Director may deny a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility
            permit if it does not adequately protect and minimize impacts to public
            health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

d.   Financial Assurance. The Operator of a Centralized E&P Waste Management
     Facility will submit for the Director's approval such Financial Assurance as
     required by Rule 703.a prior to the Director approving the Form 28.

e.   Facility Modifications. Throughout the life of the facility, the Operator will submit
     proposed modifications to the facility design, operating plan, permit data, or
     permit conditions to the Director for prior approval through a Form 4.

f.   Permit Expiration. The Form 28 will expire 3 years after approval if the Operator
     has not commenced construction of the permitted facility.

g.   Annual Permit Review. To ensure compliance with permit conditions and the
     Commission’s Rules, the facility permit will be subject to an annual review by the
     Director. To facilitate this review, the Operator will submit an annual report
     summarizing operations, including the types and volumes of waste handled at
     the facility. The Director may require additional information.

h.   Closure.

     (1)    Preliminary Closure Plan. A general preliminary plan for closure will be
            submitted with the Form 28. The preliminary closure plan will include, but
            not be limited to:



                                                                                      437
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             A.     A general plan for closure and Reclamation of the entire facility,
                    including a description of the activities required to decommission
                    and remove all equipment, close and reclaim Pits, dispose of or
                    treat residual waste, collect samples as needed to verify
                    compliance with soil and Groundwater standards, implement post-
                    closure monitoring, and complete other Remediation, as required.

             B.     An estimate of the cost to close and reclaim the entire facility and to
                    conduct post-closure monitoring. Cost estimates will be subject to
                    review by the Director to verify that the Financial Assurance
                    provided pursuant to Rules 907.d & 703.a is appropriate.

       (2)   Final Closure Plan. The Operator will submit a detailed Form 27 at least
             60 days prior to closure for approval or denial by the Director. The
             workplan will include, but not be limited to, a description of the activities
             required to decommission and remove all equipment, close and reclaim
             Pits, dispose of or treat residual waste, collect samples as needed to
             verify compliance with soil and Groundwater standards, implement post-
             closure monitoring, and complete other Remediation and Reclamation, as
             required.

908.   PIT PERMITTING/REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

a.     Operators will submit a Form 15, Earthen Pit Report/Permit to the Director for
       review and approval prior to constructing any of the following:

       (1)   All Production Pits;

       (2)   Special Purpose Pits except those listed in Rules 908.c.(1) or (2);

       (3)   Drilling Pits; and

       (4)   Multi-Well Pits, including those located at Centralized E&P Waste
             Management Facilities.

b.     Operators will submit a Form 15, to the Director for review and approval prior to
       enlarging or otherwise modifying an existing properly permitted Pit.

c.     Operators will submit a Form 15 within 30 days after constructing:

       (1)   Emergency Pits, Plugging Pits, and Workover Pits if they are used in the
             initial phase of an emergency response; and

       (2)   Cuttings Trenches approved on a Form 2A.

d.     In order to allow adequate time for Pit permit review and approval, Operators will
       submit a Form 15 at the same time they submit a Form 2A or Oil and Gas
       Development Plan. The Director may condition approval of the Form 15 upon



                                                                                        438
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       compliance with additional terms, provisions, or requirements necessary to
       protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
       environment, and wildlife resources. The Director may deny a Form 15 if the
       Director determines it does not provide necessary and reasonable standards to
       protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
       environment, and wildlife resources. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Form 15
       will be approved until the associated Form 2A or Oil and Gas Development Plan
       is approved.

909.   PITS – CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION

a.     Operators will ensure that the Pits they operate are:

       (1)    Properly permitted through a Form 15 approved by the Director, or
              registered in their names with an active Pit Facility ID;

       (2)    Accurately mapped; and

       (3)    Listed according to current facility records in the Commission’s database.
              Operators may update facility records using a Form 15.

b.     Operators will construct, maintain, and operate Pits used for exploration and
       production of oil and gas in a manner that protects and minimizes adverse
       impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.
       Operators will operate and maintain Pits and Pit liners to prevent Spills and
       Releases.

c.     Operators will construct, monitor, and operate Pits to provide for a minimum of 2
       feet of freeboard at all times between the top of the Pit wall at its point of lowest
       elevation and the Fluid level of the Pit. Operators will employ a method of
       monitoring and maintaining the freeboard. Operators will report any unauthorized
       Release of Fluids from a Pit pursuant to Rule 912.

d.     Operators will not store oil or any other produced liquid hydrocarbon substance in
       earthen Pits or reservoirs, except in emergencies where such substances cannot
       be otherwise contained. Operators will remove the oil or produced hydrocarbons
       as soon as the emergency is controlled. Operators will submit a Form 15 for the
       Director’s approval within 30 days of the emergency, pursuant to Rule 908.c.

e.     No liquid hydrocarbons may be present in a Pit unless the Pit is specifically
       permitted as a Skimming/Settling (“Skim”) Pit.

       (1)    Immediately upon discovery or notification, Operators will remove any
              accumulation of oil or condensate, including free product or hydrocarbon
              sheen, from a Pit. If the Operator is unable to immediately remove the
              accumulation, the accumulation will be removed within 24 hours of
              discovery.




                                                                                        439
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)    Operators will use skimming, steam cleaning of exposed liners, or other
            safe and legal methods as necessary to maintain Pits in clean condition
            and to control hydrocarbon odors.

     (3)    If an Operator allows oil or condensate (free product or sheen) to
            accumulate in a Pit, then the Director may revoke the Operator’s Form 15
            and require the Operator to close and remediate the Pit.

f.   Operators will fence and net or install CPW-approved exclusion devices on all
     new Pits pursuant to Rule 1202.a.(4).

g.   Operators may use Multi-Well Pits for a period of no more than 3 years, unless:

     (1)    The Operator obtains a permit to operate the Multi-Well Pit pursuant to
            Rule 907 at a Centralized E&P Waste Management Facility;

     (2)    The Multi-Well Pit is located in Huerfano or Las Animas Counties and was
            constructed prior to May 1, 2011; or

     (3)    The Multi-Well Pit is located in Logan, Morgan, Washington, and Yuma
            Counties and was constructed prior to May 1, 2013.

     (4)    Based on evidence of risks to public health, safety, welfare, the
            environment, or wildlife resources, the Director may require an Operator to
            line, net, cover, fence, or close an existing Multi-Well Pit that is subject to
            Rules 909.g.(2) & (3), or submit a Form 28 for such a Multi-Well Pit.

h.   Operators will treat produced water pursuant to Rule 905.c.(1) before placing it in
     a Production Pit.

i.   Operators will utilize appropriate biocide treatments to control bacterial growth
     and related odors.

j.   Produced Water Quality Analyses. Beginning January 15, 2021, Operators will
     submit an initial water quality analysis for produced water for each Well from
     which produced water is placed into a permitted or registered Pit, including Pits
     that were constructed prior to January 15, 2021.

     (1)    The water sample will be analyzed for the following:

            A.     pH;

            B.     Specific conductance;

            C.     Total dissolved and suspended solids (TDS and TSS);

            D.     Alkalinity (total, bicarbonate, and carbonate as CaCO3);




                                                                                       440
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           E.    Major anions (bromide, chloride, fluoride, sulfate, nitrate and nitrite
                 as N, and phosphorus);

           F.    Major cations (calcium, iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium,
                 and sodium);

           G.    Other elements (barium, boron, selenium, and strontium);

           H.    Naphthalene;

           I.    Total petroleum hydrocarbons (“TPH”) as total volatile
                 hydrocarbons (C6 to C10) and total extractable hydrocarbons (C10 to
                 C36);

           J.    BTEX compounds (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes);
                 and

           K.    Radium (226Ra and 228Ra).

     (2)   Subsequent Sampling and Analysis. After initial sampling, Operators will
           collect and analyze subsequent samples at the following frequencies:

           A.    For lined Pits, Operators will collect and analyze a second
                 confirmation sample during the period between 33 and 39 months
                 after the initial sampling and analysis;

           B.    For unlined Pits:

                 i.     Operators will collect and analyze samples on an annual
                        basis after the initial sampling and analysis;

                 ii.    If subsequent sampling and analysis indicates stable water
                        quality over time, the Operator may request relief from
                        further subsequent sampling and analysis by submitting a
                        Form 4, which the Director will review and approve or deny;

           C.    For all Pits, Operators will collect and analyze a subsequent sample
                 for any new Well that contributes water to the Pit;

           D.    For all Pits, Operators will collect and analyze a subsequent sample
                 any time the Operator or Director has reason to believe the water
                 quality in the Pit has changed; and

           E.    For all Pits, if subsequent sampling and analysis indicates variable
                 water quality, the Director may require more frequent or additional
                 sampling.




                                                                                     441
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)    Operators will submit all water quality analysis data using a Form 43,
              Analytical Sample Submittal, and will include suitable electronic data
              deliverable generated by the laboratory and PDF of lab reports within 3
              months of sample collection. Results for the initial samples collected
              pursuant to Rule 909.j.(1) will be submitted no later than July 15, 2022, or
              prior to Pit closure, whichever is earlier.

       (4)    Operators will collect samples according to standard environmental
              procedures.

       (5)    Operators will analyze samples in an accredited laboratory using
              established methodologies. For those analytes with Groundwater
              threshold concentrations listed in WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated
              by reference in Rule 901.b, the analytical technique will be capable of
              achieving, and will achieve, reporting limits at concentrations less than the
              WQCC Regulation 41 thresholds in the matrix submitted. The Director
              may review the analytical standard used for each analyte and may request
              the analysis be run by a different method.

       (6)    As an alternative to the sampling required by Rules 909.j.(1)–(5) the
              Operator transporting produced water produced from the same
              formation(s) in the same Field or unit to the same Pit may submit a Form 4
              to request the Director’s approval for an alternative sampling program to
              consolidate the number of samples required from the same formation(s).

910.   PIT LINING REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS

a.     Except for Cuttings Trenches and Pits constructed as an initial emergency
       response measure pursuant to Rule 908.c.(1), all Pits constructed after January
       15, 2021 will be lined.

b.     Skim Pits. Operators will not construct new Skim pits. All existing Skim Pits,
       regardless of date of construction, will be lined. For any unlined Skim Pits in
       existence on January 15, 2021, the Operator will submit a Form 27 outlining the
       Operator’s plan to delineate and remediate any associated impacts and a plan to
       either properly line or close the Pit. The Form 27 for an unlined Skim Pit must be
       submitted to the Director by April 1, 2021. If the Pit will be lined and returned to
       service, the Operator will also submit and obtain the Director’s approval of a
       Form 15.

c.     Operators will construct all Pits according to the following specifications:

       (1)    Materials used in lining Pits will be of a synthetic material that is
              impervious, has high puncture and tear strength, has adequate elongation,
              and is resistant to deterioration by ultraviolet light, weathering,
              hydrocarbons, aqueous acids, alkali, fungi, or other substances in the
              produced water.




                                                                                       442
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   All Pit lining systems will be designed, constructed, installed, and
           maintained in accordance with the manufacturers’ specifications and good
           engineering practices. Operators will maintain records demonstrating that
           the Operator followed manufacturers’ specifications, and provide them to
           the Director upon request.

     (3)   Field seams will be installed and tested in accordance with manufacturer
           specifications and good engineering practices. Operators will maintain
           testing results, repair documentation (including the dates of tests and
           repairs), and provide them to the Director upon request.

d.   Operators will construct all Pits, except those at Centralized E&P Waste
     Management Facilities, according to the following specifications:

     (1)   Liners will have a minimum thickness of 24 mils. The synthetic or
           fabricated liner will cover the bottom and interior sides of the Pit with the
           edges secured with at least a 12-inch deep anchor trench around the Pit
           perimeter. The anchor trench will be designed to secure, and prevent
           slippage or destruction of, the liner materials.

     (2)   The foundation for the liner will be constructed with material containing no
           sharp rocks, debris or other material that could puncture the liner. The
           foundation for the liner will have a minimum thickness of 12 inches after
           compaction, cover the entire bottom and interior sides of the Pit, and be
           constructed so that the hydraulic conductivity will not exceed 1.0 x 10-7
           cm/sec after testing and compaction. Operators will maintain compaction
           and permeability test results measured in the laboratory and field and
           provide the results to the Director upon request.

     (3)   As an alternative to the soil foundation described in Rule 910.d.(2),
           Operators may construct the foundation with bedding material that
           exceeds a hydraulic conductivity of 1.0 x 10-7 cm/sec, if a double synthetic
           liner system is used. However, the bottom and sides of the Pit will be
           padded with soil or synthetic matting type material and will be free of
           sharp rocks or other material that are capable of puncturing the liner. Each
           synthetic liner will have a minimum thickness of 24 mils.

e.   Operators will construct Pits used at Centralized E&P Waste Management
     Facilities according to the following specifications:

     (1)   Liners will have a minimum thickness of 60 mils. The synthetic or
           fabricated liner will cover the bottom and interior sides of the Pit with the
           edges secured with at least a 12-inch deep anchor trench around the Pit
           perimeter or in accordance with the liner manufacturer’s specifications.
           The anchor trench will be designed to secure, and prevent slippage or
           destruction of, the liner materials.




                                                                                      443
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)    The foundation for the liner will be constructed with material containing no
              sharp rocks, debris, or other material that could puncture the liner. The
              foundation for the liner will have a minimum thickness of 24 inches after
              compaction, cover the entire bottom and interior sides of the Pit, and be
              constructed so that the hydraulic conductivity will not exceed 1.0 x 10-7
              cm/sec after testing and compaction. Operators will maintain compaction
              and permeability test results measured in the laboratory and field and
              provide them to the Director upon request.

       (3)    As an alternative to the soil foundation described in Rule 910.e.(2),
              Operators may use a secondary liner consisting of a geosynthetic clay
              liner, which is a manufactured hydraulic barrier typically consisting of
              bentonite clay or other very low permeability material, supported by
              geotextiles or geomembranes, which are held together by needling,
              stitching, or chemical adhesives.

       (4)    As an alternative to the soil foundation described in Rule 910.e.(2),
              Operators may use a double synthetic liner system. However, the bottom
              and sides of the Pit will be padded with soil or synthetic matting type
              material and will be free of sharp rocks or other materials that are capable
              of puncturing the liner. Each synthetic liner will have a maximum thickness
              of 60 mils.

       (5)    All Pits will be constructed and operated with a leak detection system.

f.     The Director may require the use of additional liners or a leak detection system
       for the Pit or other equivalent protective measures, including but not limited to,
       increased recordkeeping requirements, monitoring systems, and underlying
       gravel filled sumps and lateral systems. In making such a determination, the
       Director will consider the site-specific information provided by the Operator,
       including but not limited to surface and subsurface geology, the presence and
       depth to Groundwater, the quality of the produced water, the hydraulic
       conductivity of the surrounding soils, the distance to surface water and water
       wells, and the type of liner.

911.   CLOSURE OF OIL AND GAS FACILITIES

a.     Operators will close all Oil and Gas Facilities, including Drilling Pits and Cuttings
       Trenches, in accordance with an approved Form 27.

       (1)    Operators will obtain the Director’s approval of the Form 27 prior to
              conducting any investigation or closure operations.

       (2)    The Form 27 will include a description of the proposed investigation and
              Remediation activities pursuant to Rule 913.




                                                                                         444
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)    Operators will close and remediate Emergency Pits as soon as the initial
              phase of emergency response operations is complete or any process
              Upset Conditions are controlled.

       (4)    Oil and Gas Facility closure pursuant to this Rule 911.a will be at the time
              of final site closure, Plugging and Abandonment, or decommissioning,
              unless the Director determines that a substantive change to the site
              requires a Form 27, or a reportable Spill or an historic impact is
              discovered during facility operation or removal.

b.     Discovery of a Spill or Release During Closure. If an Operator discovers a
       Spill or Release during closure operations, the Operator will report the Spill or
       Release on a Form 19, Spill/Release Report, pursuant to Rule 912.

c.     Pit Closure.

       (1)    Pit Evacuation. Operators will treat or dispose of E&P Waste pursuant to
              Rule 905 prior to backfilling and site Reclamation.

       (2)    Operators will collect a sufficient number of representative samples from
              locations beneath a Pit to demonstrate that no leakage of managed fluids
              has occurred. Operators will ensure that any soil left in place meets the
              cleanup concentrations listed in Table 915-1.

       (3)    Liner Disposal.

              A.      Synthetic Liner Disposal. Operators will remove and dispose of
                      synthetic liners pursuant to all state and federal requirements for
                      Solid Waste Disposal.

              B.      Constructed Soil Liners. Operators may remove constructed soil
                      liner material for treatment or disposal. Alternatively, if an Operator
                      leaves the constructed soil liner material in place, the Operator will
                      rip the material and mix it with native soils in a manner to alleviate
                      compaction and prevent an impermeable barrier to infiltration and
                      Groundwater flow. Operators will demonstrate that the resulting
                      material meets cleanup concentrations for contaminants of concern
                      listed in Table 915-1.

912.   SPILLS AND RELEASES

a.     General.

       (1)    Immediately upon discovering any Spills or Releases of E&P Waste,
              produced Fluids, or unauthorized Releases of natural gas that meet the
              criteria of Rules 912.b.(1).H, I, or J, regardless of size or volume,
              Operators will control and contain the Spill or Release to protect and




                                                                                           445
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, and wildlife resources.

     (2)   Operators will investigate, clean up, and document impacts resulting from
           Spills and Releases as soon as the impacts are discovered.

     (3)   The Director may require the Operator to perform any action the Director
           determines to be necessary and reasonable to prevent or mitigate adverse
           impacts on any air, water, soil, or biological resource caused by a Spill or
           Release.

     (4)   Operators will document and maintain records to demonstrate compliance
           with the concentration levels in Table 915-1, and, if surface water or
           Groundwater are impacted, WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative
           Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as incorporated by
           reference in Rule 901.b.

     (5)   For any Spills or Releases that do not meet the reporting requirements of
           Rule 912.b, Operators will document cleanup efforts and provide
           documentation of the cleanup to the Director upon request.

b.   Reporting Spills or Releases of E&P Waste, Gas, or Produced Fluids.

     (1)   Report to the Director. Operators will submit an initial report (“24 Hour
           Notification”) of a Spill or Release of E&P Waste, natural gas, or produced
           Fluids that meet any of the following criteria to the Director verbally, via
           electronic mail, or on a Form 19, Spill/Release Report – Initial within 24
           hours of discovery, unless otherwise specified below.

           A.    A Spill or Release of any size that impacts or threatens to impact
                 any Waters of the State, Public Water System, residence or
                 occupied structure, livestock, wildlife, or publicly-maintained road;

           B.    A Spill or Release in which 1 Barrel or more of E&P Waste or
                 produced Fluids is spilled or released outside of berms or other
                 secondary containment;

           C.    A Spill or Release of 5 Barrels or more of E&P Waste or produced
                 Fluids regardless of whether the Spill or Release is completely
                 contained within berms or other secondary containment.

           D.    Within 6 hours of discovery, a Grade 1 Gas Leak. For a Grade 1
                 Gas Leak from a Flowline, the Operator also must submit the Form
                 19 – Initial, document number on a Form 44, Flowline Report, for
                 the Grade 1 Gas Leak.

           E.    The discovery of 10 cubic yards or more of impacted material
                 resulting from a current or historic Spill or Release. Discovery and



                                                                                    446
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  reporting will not be contingent upon confirmation samples
                  demonstrating exceedance of Table 915-1 standards.

           F.     The discovery of impacted Waters of the State, including
                  Groundwater. Discovery and reporting will not be contingent upon
                  confirmation samples demonstrating exceedance of Table 915-1
                  standards. The presence of free product or hydrocarbon sheen on
                  Groundwater or surface water is reportable. The presence of
                  contaminated soil in contact with Groundwater or surface water is
                  reportable.

           G.     A suspected or actual Spill or Release of any volume where the
                  volume cannot be immediately determined, including a Spill or
                  Release of any volume that daylights from the subsurface.

           H.     A Spill or Release resulting in vaporized hydrocarbon mists that
                  leave the Oil and Gas Location or Off-Location Flowline right of way
                  from an Oil and Gas Location and impacts or threatens to impact
                  off-location property.

           I.     A Release of natural gas that results in an accumulation of soil gas
                  or gas seeps.

           J.     A Release that results in natural gas in Groundwater.

     (2)   The 24 Hour Notification to the Director will include, at a minimum,

           A.     The specific location of the Spill or Release, including latitude and
                  longitude;

           B.     Certification that the Operator provided additional party notifications
                  as required by Rules 912.b.(7)–(10), below;

           C.     A description of any threat to Waters of the State, Public Water
                  Systems, residences or occupied structures, livestock, wildlife, air
                  quality, or publicly-maintained roads from the Spill or Release; and

           D.     Any information available to the Operator about the type and
                  volume of Fluid or waste involved, including whether it is controlled
                  or uncontrolled at the time of the 24 Hour Notification.

     (3)   If the Operator did not submit the 24 Hour Notification through a Form 19
           – Initial, the Operator will submit a Form 19 – Initial no less than 72 hours
           after discovery of the Spill or Release unless the Director extends the
           timeframe in writing.




                                                                                     447
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   In addition to the Form 19 – Initial, the Operator will file a Form 19 –
           Supplemental not more than 10 days after the Spill or Release is
           discovered that includes:

           A.     A topographic map showing the governmental section and location
                  of the Spill or Release, or an aerial photograph showing the
                  location of the specific Spill or Release site.

           B.     All pertinent information about the Spill or Release known to the
                  Operator that has not been reported previously, including photo
                  documentation showing the source of the Spill or Release, the
                  impacted area, and initial cleanup activity; and

           C.     Information relating to the initial mitigation, site investigation, and
                  Remediation measures conducted by the Operator.

           D.     Global Positioning System data that meets the requirements of
                  Rule 216 if latitude and longitude data provided pursuant to Rule
                  912.b.(2).A did not meet the requirements of Rule 216.

     (5)   The Director may require any Form 19 – Supplemental reports or
           information the Director determines are necessary.

     (6)   No later than 90 days after a Spill or Release is discovered, the Operator
           will have submitted, and obtained the Director’s approval of either:

           A.     A Form 19 – Supplemental requesting closure pursuant to Rule
                  913.h and supported by adequate documentation to demonstrate
                  that the Spill or Release has been fully cleaned up and complies
                  with Table 915-1; or

           B.     A Form 27 if any of the criteria listed in Rules 912.b.(6).B.i–iii apply.
                  If Remediation will continue under an approved Form 27, the
                  Operator will also submit a Form 19 – Supplemental which requests
                  closure of the Spill or Release and includes the Remediation
                  project number assigned by the Director.

                  i.     A Form 27 is required by the Commission’s Rules;

                  ii.    Cleanup or Remediation will continue for longer than 90
                         days after the Spill or Release was discovered; or

                  iii.   The Director requests a Form 27.

           C.     On the Form 19 – Supplemental or Form 27 submitted pursuant to
                  this Rule 912.b.(6), the Operator will provide information about
                  general liability insurance pursuant to Rule 705.




                                                                                        448
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (7)    Notification to Local Governments. At the same time the Operator
            makes the 24 Hour Notification, the Operator will provide verbal or written
            notification to the entity with jurisdiction over emergency response within
            the local municipality if the Spill or Release occurred within a municipality
            or the local county if the Spill or Release did not occur within a
            municipality. The notification will include, at a minimum, the information
            listed in Rule 912.b.(2).

     (8)    Notification to the Surface Owner. The Operator will provide verbal or
            written notification to the affected Surface Owner or the Surface Owner’s
            appointed tenant concurrent with providing the 24 Hour Notification.

            A.     If the Surface Owner cannot be reached within 24 hours, the
                   Operator will continue to make good faith efforts to notify the
                   Surface Owner until notice has been provided.

            B.     The verbal or written notification will include, at a minimum, the
                   information listed in Rule 912.b.(2).

            C.     The Operator will document the notification including the name of
                   the person contacted, phone number or email of contact, date, and
                   time on the Form 19 – Initial and update the information as
                   necessary on the Form 19 -- Supplemental.

     (9)    Report to Environmental Release/Incident Report Hotline. Operators
            will report a Spill or Release of any size that impacts or threatens to
            impact surface waters to the Director and to the Environmental
            Release/Incident Report Hotline (1-877-518-5608). Spills and Releases
            that impact or threaten a Public Water System intake, as described in
            Rules 411.a.(4) & 411.b.(5), will be verbally reported to the emergency
            contact for that facility concurrent with providing the 24 Hour Notification to
            the Director pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1).

     (10)   At the same time the Operator submits a Form 19 – Initial, the Operator
            will provide verbal or written notification to CPW if the Spill or Release
            occurred within 300 feet of surface Waters of the State, or within High
            Priority Habitat.

     (11)   Reporting Chemical Spills or Releases. Operators will report Chemical
            Spills and Releases pursuant to applicable state and federal laws,
            including the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, the
            Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
            Act, the Oil Pollution Act, and the Clean Water Act.

c.   Remediation of Spills or Releases.

     (1)    The Director may require Operators to submit a Form 27 if the Director
            identifies any threatened or actual adverse impacts to any air, water, soil,



                                                                                        449
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           wildlife, or other environmental resource from a Spill or Release, or if
           necessary to ensure compliance with the concentration levels in Table
           915-1 and WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater
           quality standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
           901.b.

     (2)   Not including initial emergency response operations, the Operator will
           notify and consult with any affected Surface Owners, or the Surface
           Owner’s appointed tenant, prior to commencing operations to remediate a
           Spill or Release in an area not being utilized for Oil and Gas Operations. It
           is the Operator’s burden to timely notify and negotiate access with the
           Surface Owner. Failure to do so will not relieve the Operator from its
           responsibility to commence or complete Remediation approved by the
           Director.

d.   Spill and Release Prevention.

     (1)   Operators will determine and document the cause of a Grade 1 Gas Leak
           or Spill or Release of E&P Waste or produced Fluids. After identifying the
           cause, Operators will implement measures to prevent Spills or Releases
           due to similar causes in the future, and document all changes made.

     (2)   The Director may take enforcement action if a Spill occurs at any site
           subject to control of the same Operator as a result of similar causes
           identified in Rule 912.d.(1).

     (3)   Operators will provide documentation of the Spill or Release evaluation
           and any steps taken to prevent Spills or Releases due to similar causes in
           the future to the Director upon request.

e.   Suspected Spill or Release Closure.

     (1)   Operators will submit a Supplemental Form 19 providing documentation
           that any suspected Spill or Release reported pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1).G
           did not exceed any applicable reporting thresholds. The Operator will
           clean up any actual Spill below the reporting threshold of Rule 912.b
           pursuant to the requirements of Rule 912.a.(5).

     (2)   If the suspected Spill or Release reported pursuant to Rule 912.b.(1).G did
           in fact exceed any reporting threshold identified in Rule 912.b.(1), the
           Operator will clean up the Spill pursuant to the requirements of Rule
           912.c.

f.   Changes of Operator. Within 60 days of the Director’s approval of a Form 9,
     Transfer of Operatorship – Subsequent pursuant to Rule 218.e, the Buying
     Operator will submit a supplemental Form 19 designating the responsible
     Operator for each open Spill and Release.




                                                                                    450
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

913.   SITE INVESTIGATION, REMEDIATION, AND CLOSURE

a.     Applicability. This Rule 913 applies to the investigation, Remediation, and
       reporting required for Spills and Releases, Remediation projects, and
       decommissioning of Oil and Gas Facilities. All site investigation, Remediation,
       and closure operations will be conducted in accordance with the Commission’s
       Rules, including the Commission’s 1000 Series Rules.

b.     General Site Investigation and Remediation Requirements.

       (1)   Site Investigation and Remediation Workplan. Operators will submit
             and obtain the Director’s approval of a Form 27 whenever it is required by
             the Commission’s Rules, prior to commencing the operations addressed
             by the Form 27.

       (2)   Sampling and Analyses. Operators will conduct sampling and analysis of
             soil and Groundwater pursuant to Rule 915 to determine the horizontal
             and vertical extent of any contamination in excess of the cleanup
             concentrations in Table 915-1 or in WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and
             narrative Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as
             incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

             A.     Sampling and analyses will be required to profile E&P Waste,
                    delineate extent of contamination, and confirm compliance with
                    applicable standards upon completion of Remediation.

             B.     Laboratory method detection limits must be less than or equal to
                    Table 915-1 or WQCC Regulation 41 standards, as incorporated by
                    reference in Rule 901.b.

             C.     Composite sample results may be submitted for preliminary
                    analysis and waste profiling. Discrete sample results will be
                    required for confirmation sampling.

       (3)   Management of Investigation-Derived Waste. Investigation-Derived
             Waste will be managed pursuant to Rules 905 or 906.

       (4)   Pit Evacuation. Prior to site investigation and Remediation, E&P Waste
             will be treated or disposed pursuant to Rule 905.

       (5)   Remediation.

             A.     Remediation will be performed in a manner that reduces or
                    removes contamination that exceeds the cleanup concentrations in
                    Table 915-1 or in WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative
                    Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as incorporated
                    by reference in Rule 901.b, and that protects and minimizes




                                                                                     451
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                  and wildlife resources.

           B.     When conducting Remediation activities, Operators will conform to
                  the following standards:

                  i.     Operators will fence or cover open excavations to prevent
                         access when sites are not attended.

                  ii.    Operators will protect topsoil, consistent with the
                         Commission’s 1000 Series Rules.

                  iii.   Operators will minimize surface disturbance.

                  iv.    Operators will properly store, handle, and manage all E&P
                         Waste to prevent contamination of stormwater, surface
                         water, Groundwater, and soil.

                  v.     If Remediation occurs within High Priority Habitat, the
                         Operator will incorporate Best Management Practices
                         protective of the relevant wildlife species or habitat in the
                         Operator’s Form 27.

           C.     Groundwater that does not meet the cleanup concentrations in
                  Table 915-1 or WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative
                  Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as incorporated
                  by reference in Rule 901.b, will be remediated pursuant to a Form
                  27.

     (6)   Surface Reclamation. If the Director approves the closure of a
           Remediation project, the Operator will reclaim the site(s) pursuant to the
           Commission’s 1000 Series Rules.

c.   Form 27, Site Investigation and Remediation Workplan. Operators will
     prepare and obtain the Director’s approval of a Form 27 prior to conducting the
     following operations and Remediation activities:

     (1)   Pit or Cuttings Trench closure;

     (2)   Buried or partially buried vessel closure, which will be by removal;

     (3)   Remediation of Spills and Releases pursuant to Rule 912;

     (4)   Land Treatment of Oily Waste pursuant to Rule 905.e;

     (5)   Closure of Centralized E&P Waste Management Facilities pursuant to
           Rule 907.h;




                                                                                         452
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)    Remediation of impacted Groundwater pursuant to Rule 915.e.(3).D, and
            the contaminant concentrations in Table 915-1;

     (7)    Investigation and Remediation of natural gas in soil or Groundwater;

     (8)    When requested by the Director due to any potential risk to soil,
            Groundwater, or surface water; and

     (9)    Decommissioning of Oil and Gas Facilities.

d.   Implementation Schedule. Each Form 27 will include a specific implementation
     schedule to complete investigation and Remediation.

     (1)    Operators will investigate impacts to soil, Groundwater, and surface water
            as soon as the impacts are discovered.

     (2)    Any change from the approved implementation schedule will be requested
            at least 14 days in advance, and the Operator may not make the change
            without the Director’s approval.

e.   Reporting Schedule. After initial approval of a Form 27, the Operator will
     provide quarterly update reports in a Supplemental Form 27 to document
     progress of site investigation and Remediation, unless an alternative reporting
     schedule has been requested by the Operator and approved by the Director. The
     Director may request a more frequent reporting schedule based on site-specific
     conditions.

     (1)    Operators may not change the reporting schedule without the Director’s
            approval.

     (2)    By April 15, 2021, Operators of existing Remediation projects approved
            prior to January 15, 2021 will submit a Supplemental Form 27 with a
            detailed project summary and status.

     (3)    For existing Remediation projects approved prior to January 15, 2021, the
            Operator will adopt a quarterly reporting schedule unless a more frequent
            or specific reporting schedule was already approved by the Director.

     (4)    At least one of the Operator’s quarterly reports each calendar year will
            address the adequacy of general liability insurance held by the Operator
            pursuant to Rule 705, or Financial Assurance otherwise provided by the
            Operator, to fully address the anticipated costs of Remediation.

f.   Discovery of a Spill or Release During Closure. If a Spill or Release is
     discovered during facility closure operations, the Operator will report it to the
     Director on a Form 19 pursuant to Rule 912.




                                                                                         453
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

g.   Changes of Operator. Within 60 days of the Director’s approval of a Form 9 –
     Subsequent pursuant to Rule 218.e, the Buying Operator will submit a
     supplemental Form 27 designating the responsible Operator for all open
     Remediation projects.

h.   Closure.

     (1)   Remediation will be considered complete when the Operator has
           demonstrated compliance with:

           A.     The cleanup concentrations in Table 915-1;

           B.     WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                  standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                  901.b, if applicable; and

           C.     Any condition of approval of a Form 27.

     (2)   An Operator may request a variance pursuant to Rule 502 to comply with
           an alternative standard in lieu of one or more of the standards in Rules
           913.h.(1).A & C. In addition to applying for a variance, the Operator will
           also submit a Form 27 demonstrating that their alternative clean-up
           process protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public health, safety,
           welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

     (3)   For contaminated groundwater where periodic monitoring has been
           required, closure may not occur until after 4 consecutive quarters of
           sampling and analysis demonstrating compliance with Table 915-1 and
           WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
           standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b,
           if applicable.

     (4)   Notification of Completion. Within 30 days after conclusion of site
           Remediation activities:

           A.     Operators conducting Remediation operations pursuant to an
                  approved Form 27 will submit to the Director a Supplemental Form
                  27 containing documentation sufficient to demonstrate compliance
                  with the Commission’s Rules.

           B.     Operators will coordinate with the Director through a Form 4
                  regarding additional surface Reclamation required by the
                  Commission’s 1000 Series Rules, if applicable.

i.   Release of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance required by Rule 706
     may be held by the Director until the required Remediation of soil and/or
     Groundwater impacts is completed in accordance with the approved workplan, or
     until cleanup goals are met.



                                                                                  454
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

914.   CRITERIA TO ESTABLISH POINTS OF COMPLIANCE

In determining a Point of Compliance, the Director will take into consideration
recommendations of the Operator or any Responsible Party or Parties, if applicable,
together with the following factors:

a.     The classified use established by the WQCC, for any Groundwater or surface
       water that was impacted by contamination. If not so classified, the interim
       narrative standard applies, and the domestic and agricultural uses are to be
       protected;

b.     The geologic and hydrologic characteristics of the site, such as depth to
       Groundwater, Groundwater flow, direction and hydraulic conductivity, soil types,
       surface water impacts, and any seasonal hydrologic variability;

c.     The toxicity, mobility, and persistence in the environment of contaminants
       released or discharged from the site;

d.     Established wellhead protection areas;

e.     The potential of the site as an Aquifer recharge area;

f.     The distance to the nearest permitted domestic water well or Public Water
       System supply well completed in the same Aquifer affected by the event; and

g.     The distance to the nearest permitted livestock or irrigation water well completed
       in the same Aquifer affected by the event.

915.   CONCENTRATIONS AND SAMPLING FOR SOIL AND GROUNDWATER

a.     Soil Concentrations. Operators will adhere to the concentrations for soil
       cleanup in Table 915-1. Operators will use Residential Soil Screening Level
       Concentrations as cleanup levels unless required otherwise by the Director. The
       Director will require adherence to the Protection of Groundwater Soil Screening
       Levels when a pathway to Groundwater exists. When the Director has
       reasonable cause to believe that oil and gas exploration-related compounds or
       parameters other than those listed in Table 915-1 may be present, the Director
       may require additional analyses of compounds included in the EPA RSLs, as
       incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

b.     Soil Suitability for Reclamation. Operators will adhere to the concentrations for
       soil in Table 915-1 for restoring soil to the agronomic properties for electrical
       conductivity (“EC”), sodium adsorption ratio (“SAR”), pH, and boron for soils.
       Subject to prior approval by the Director, Operators may leave materials with
       elevated concentrations of EC, SAR, or pH in situ. In such cases, the Operator
       will provide a detailed Reclamation plan that includes, but is not limited to, soil
       analysis from adjacent undisturbed lands, revegetation techniques, site
       stabilization, and details of seeded species.



                                                                                      455
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Groundwater Concentrations. Operators will adhere to the concentrations for
     Groundwater in Table 915-1. The Groundwater standards and analytical methods
     are derived from the Groundwater standards and classifications established by
     WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality standards and
     classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

d.   Additional Groundwater Analyses. When the Director has reasonable cause to
     believe that oil and gas exploration-related compounds or parameters other than
     those listed in Table 915-1 may be present, the Director may require additional
     analyses beyond the list of compounds included in Table 915-1 for Groundwater
     including but not limited to:

     (1)   Any element, compound or parameter listed in Table A and Tables 1, 2, 3,
           and 4 of WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated by reference in Rule
           901.b.

     (2)   In accordance with the Narrative Standards of WQCC Regulation 41.5.A,
           any element, compound, or parameter not listed in Table A or Tables 1, 2,
           3, and 4 of WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated by reference in Rule
           901.b, which alone or in combination with other substances, are in
           concentrations shown to be:

           A.     Carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, or toxic to human beings; or,

           B.     A danger to public health, safety, and welfare.

e.   Sampling and Analysis. Analysis will be conducted using EPA SW-846
     analytical methods, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b, or, with the
     Director’s approval, other analytical methods published by nationally-recognized
     organizations. Analyses of samples will be performed by laboratories that
     maintain state or national accreditation programs. Operators will adhere to the
     specialized agricultural analytical methods where required pursuant to footnote 2
     to Table 915-1. A lab with experience with agricultural analysis will be used.

     (1)   Methods for Sampling and Analysis. Sampling and analysis for site
           investigation or confirmation of successful Remediation will be conducted
           to determine the nature and extent of impact and confirm compliance with
           appropriate concentration levels in Table 915-1 and WQCC Regulation 41
           numeric and narrative Groundwater quality standards and classifications,
           as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.

           A.     Field Analysis. Field measurements and field tests will be
                  conducted using appropriate equipment, calibrated and operated
                  according to manufacturer specifications, by personnel trained and
                  familiar with the equipment. Operators will provide all field
                  measurements and tests to the Director upon request, including but
                  not limited to field notes, field screening logs, soil boring logs,




                                                                                   456
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 monitor well construction Logs, pump test reports, photographs,
                 and soil vapor screening results.

           B.    Sample Collection. Samples will be collected, preserved,
                 documented, and shipped or delivered to a laboratory under a
                 chain-of-custody protocol using standard environmental sampling
                 procedures in a manner to ensure accurate representation of site
                 conditions.

           C.    Laboratory Analytical Methods. Laboratories will analyze
                 samples using standard methods (including but not limited to EPA
                 SW-846, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b) appropriate
                 for detecting the target analyte. The method selected will have
                 detection limits less than or equal to the cleanup concentrations in
                 Table 915-1 and WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated by
                 reference in Rule 901.b.

           D.    Background Sampling. The Director may require the Operator to
                 take site-specific samples, outside of the area disturbed by Oil and
                 Gas Operations, of comparable, nearby, non-impacted, native soil,
                 Groundwater or other media to establish background conditions.

     (2)   Soil Sampling and Analysis.

           A.    Applicability. If soil contamination is suspected or known to exist
                 as a result of Spills or Releases or E&P Waste management,
                 Operators will collect and analyze representative samples of soil
                 pursuant to this Rule 915.e.(2).

           B.    Sample Collection. Samples will be collected from areas most
                 likely to have been impacted, and the horizontal and vertical extent
                 of contamination will be determined. The number and location of
                 samples will be appropriate to determine the horizontal and vertical
                 extent of the impact.

           C.    Sample Analysis. Operators will analyze soil samples for
                 contaminants of concern listed in Table 915-1 as appropriate to
                 assess the impact or confirm Remediation. If an Operator believes
                 it is appropriate to modify the list of contaminants of concern, the
                 Operator will submit, and obtain the Director’s approval of, a
                 modified list of contaminants of concern through a Form 19 or Form
                 27, as applicable. The list will be based on site specific E&P Waste
                 profile and process knowledge. Operators will analyze samples for
                 additional contaminants of concern upon the Director’s request.

           D.    Soil Background Determination. For impacts to soil due to E&P
                 Waste, samples from comparable, nearby non-impacted native soil
                 will be collected and analyzed for purposes of establishing



                                                                                   457
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                background soil conditions including pH, EC, SAR, and other
                constituents as identified in the E&P Waste profile.

     (3)   Groundwater Sampling and Analysis.

           A.   Applicability. Operators will collect and analyze representative
                samples of Groundwater if:

                i.     Groundwater contamination is suspected or is known to
                       exceed the concentrations in cleanup Table 915-1 or WQCC
                       Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                       standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference
                       in Rule 901.b;

                ii.    Impacted soils are in contact with Groundwater; or

                iii.   Impacts to soils extend down to the high water table.

           B.   Sample Collection. Operators will collect samples as soon as
                possible from areas most likely to have been impacted: immediately
                downgradient or in the middle of excavated areas in close proximity
                to the suspected source of the impact.

                i.     The number and location of samples will be appropriate to
                       determine the horizontal and vertical extent of the impact.

                ii.    If the cleanup concentrations in Table 915-1 or WQCC
                       Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                       standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference
                       in Rule 901.b, are exceeded, the direction of flow and a
                       Groundwater gradient will be established.

                iii.   The Director may require the installation of temporary or
                       permanent monitoring wells as necessary for sample
                       collection. All monitoring wells will be constructed and
                       permitted in accordance with the State Engineer’s Water
                       Well Construction and Permitting Rules, as incorporated by
                       reference in Rule 901.b.

           C.   Sample Analysis. Operators will analyze Groundwater samples for
                constituents of concern listed in Table 915-1, or other parameters
                appropriate for evaluating the impact, to assess the impact or
                confirm Remediation. If an Operator believes it is appropriate to
                modify the list of constituents of concern, the Operator will submit,
                and obtain the Director’s approval of, a modified list of constituents
                of concern through a Form 19 or Form 27, as applicable. The list
                will be based on site specific E&P Waste profile and process




                                                                                   458
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  knowledge. Operators will analyze samples for additional
                  constituents of concern upon the Director’s request.

           D.     Impacted Groundwater. Pursuant to Rule 913.c.(6), if
                  Groundwater contaminants exceed the concentrations listed in
                  Table 915-1 or in WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative
                  Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as incorporated
                  by reference in Rule 901.b, Operators will notify the Director and
                  submit to the Director for prior approval a Form 27 for the
                  investigation, Remediation, or monitoring of Groundwater to meet
                  the required cleanup concentrations in Table 915-1 or in WQCC
                  Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                  standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                  901.b.

     (4)   Waste and Produced Fluids Sampling and Analysis. When required by
           the Director, Operators will collect samples necessary to adequately
           characterize the composition of produced oil, condensate, water, drilling
           Fluids, drill cuttings, production gases, Bradenhead gases, soil gas, and
           soil gas seeps. The Operator will submit, and obtain the Director’s
           approval of the number of samples collected, the analyte lists, and
           analytical methods appropriate to the waste or production stream.

f.   Remediations in Progress. For sites that are subject to an open Form 19 or
     Form 27 as of January 15, 2021, Operators may seek the Director’s permission
     to comply with the version of Table 910-1 that was previously in effect, if
     Remediation is completed by January 15, 2022. If Remediation at a site subject
     to an open Form 19 or Form 27 is not completed by January 15, 2022, then the
     Operator will comply with the current version of Table 915-1.




                                                                                  459
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


                                Table 915-1
                         CLEANUP CONCENTRATIONS

Contaminant of Concern                             Concentrations
Soil TPH (total volatile [C6-C10]
and extractable [C10-C36]
hydrocarbons)                     500mg/kg
Soils and Groundwater - liquid
hydrocarbons including
condensate and oil                below visual detection limits
Soil Suitability for Reclamation
Electrical conductivity (EC) (by
saturated paste method)1,2        <4mmhos/cm
Sodium adsorption ratio (SAR)
(by saturated paste method)1,2,3  <6
pH (by saturated paste
method)1,2                        6–8.3
boron (hot water soluble soil
extract)1,2,3                     2mg/l
Organic Compounds in Groundwater4
benzene                           5µg/l
toluene  5                        560 to 1,000µg/l
ethylbenzene                      700µg/l
xylenes (sum of o-, m- and p-
isomers = total xylenes)5         1,400 to 10,000µg/l
naphthalene                       140µg/l
1,2,4-trimethylbenzene            67µg/l
1,3,5-trimethylbenzene            67µg/l
Groundwater Inorganic Parameters4
total dissolved solids (TDS)1     <1.25 X local background
chloride ion  1                   250mg/l or <1.25 X local background
sulfate ion 1                     250mg/l or <1.25 X local background




                                                                               460
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


                                 Table 915-1 (continued)
Contaminant of Concern                              Concentrations
                                      Residential      Protection of Groundwater
                                      Soil Screening Soil Screening Level
                                      Level            Concentrations (mg/kg)
                                      Concentrations Risk Based (R) and MCL
                                      (mg/kg)7         Based (M)7,8
Organic Compounds in Soils6, 9, 10
benzene                               1.2              0.0026 (M)
toluene                               490              0.69 (M)
ethylbenzene                          5.8              0.78 (M)
xylenes (sum of o-, m- and p-
isomers = total xylenes)              58               9.9 (M)
1,2,4-trimethylbenzene                30               0.0081 (R)
1,3,5-trimethylbenzene                27               0.0087 (R)
acenaphthene                          360              0.55 (R)
anthracene                            1800             5.8 (R)
benz(a)anthracene                     1.1              0.011 (R)
benzo(b)fluoranthene                  1.1              0.3 (R)
benzo(k)fluoranthene                  11               2.9 (R)
benzo(a)pyrene                        0.11             0.24 (M)
chrysene                              110              9 (R)
dibenzo(a,h)anthracene                0.11             0.096 (R)
fluoranthene                          240              8.9 (R)
fluorene                              240              0.54 (R)
indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene                1.1              0.98 (R)
1-methylnaphthalene                   18               0.006 (R)
2-methylnaphthalene                   24               0.019 (R)
naphthalene                           2                0.0038 (R)
pyrene                                180              1.3 (R)
Metals in Soils  1, 6, 9, 10, 11



arsenic                           0.68              0.29 (M)
barium                            15000             82 (M)
cadmium                           71                0.38 (M)
chromium (VI)                     0.3               0.00067 (R)
copper                            3100              46 (M)
lead                              400               14 (M)
nickel                            1500              26 (R)
selenium                          390               0.26 (M)
silver                            390               0.8 (R)
zinc                              23000             370 (R)




                                                                                   461
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


                           Table 915-1 (continued) footnotes
1 The Director will consider site-specific background concentrations or reference levels

in native soils and Groundwater.
2 Soil suitability thresholds for electrical conductivity (“EC”), pH, and sodium adsorption

ratio (“SAR”) in soils are based on use of saturated paste preparation methods, followed
by analysis. Soil suitability thresholds for available boron are based on hot water soluble
(or DPTA/sorbitol) extraction followed by analysis. Methods for preparation and analysis
of the soil suitability parameters can be found in Soil, Plant, and Water Reference
Methods for the Western Region, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.
3 With the Director’s prior approval, SAR levels and the concentration for hot water

soluble boron may be modified based on land use, depth, or characteristics of the
vegetative community.
4 Concentrations for Groundwater are taken from WQCC Regulation 41, as incorporated

by reference in Rule 901.b.
5 For toluene and xylenes (total), the first number in the range is a strictly health-based

value based on the WQCC’s established methodology for human health-based
standards. The second number in the range is a maximum contaminant level (“MCL”),
established under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act which has been determined to be
an acceptable level of this Chemical in public water supplies, taking treatability and
laboratory detection limits into account. The WQCC intends that control requirements
for this Chemical be implemented to attain a level of ambient water quality that is at
least equal to the first number in the range except as follows: 1) where Groundwater
quality exceeds the first number in the range due to a Release of contaminants that
occurred prior to September 14, 2004 (regardless of the date of discovery or
subsequent migration of such contaminants), clean-up levels for the entire contaminant
plume will be no more restrictive than the second number in the range or the
Groundwater quality resulting from such Release, whichever is more protective; and 2)
whenever the WQCC has adopted alternative, site-specific standards for the Chemical,
the site-specific standards will apply instead of these statewide standards.
6 Concentrations for organic compounds and metals in soils are taken from the

November 2020 EPA Regional Screening Levels (“EPA RSLs”) for Chemical
Contaminants at Superfund Sites, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b.
7 If there is no pathway for communication with Groundwater, then residential soil

screening levels apply for organic compounds and metals. If the Director determines
that a pathway to Groundwater exists, then the protection of Groundwater soil screening
levels will apply, secondary to actual measured concentrations of the contaminants of
concern in Groundwater.
8 The letter “(R)” following a protection of Groundwater soil screening level indicates the

concentration is derived from a risk-based approach. The letter “(M)” following a



                                                                                        462
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

protection of Groundwater soil screening level indicates the concentration is derived
from the drinking water MCL.
9 If the method detection limit (“MDL”) or practical quantitation limit (“PQL”) for a

pollutant is higher (less stringent) than a threshold concentration listed in Table 915-1,
the Director may allow an Operator to substitute the MDL or PQL for the concentration
listed in Table 915-1.
10 The risk based cleanup concentrations for organic compounds in soils shown in Table

915-1 are taken from the EPA RSLs, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b, tables
for Target Risk (“TR”) = 1x10-6 and Target Hazard Quotient (“THQ”)=0.1. The risk-based
cleanup concentrations for metals in soils shown in Table 915-1 are taken from the EPA
RSLs, as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b, tables for TR=1X10-6 and THQ=1.
The EPA RSL Frequently Asked Questions pages suggest that the THQ=0.1 tables are
appropriate when more than 1 compound of concern is to be considered as present or
likely to be present as is typical in soils impacted with organic compounds in Spills or
Releases of produced water or liquid hydrocarbons.
11 The Director will consider Residential Soil Screening Level Concentrations up to 1.25

times site specific background levels for metals in soil.




                                                                                        463
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


1000 SERIES        RECLAMATION REGULATIONS

1001. INTRODUCTION

a.   General. The rules and regulations of this series establish the proper reclamation
     of the land and soil affected by oil and gas operations and ensure the protection
     of the topsoil of said land during such operations. The surface of the land shall be
     restored as nearly as practicable to its condition at the commencement of drilling
     operations.

b.   Additional requirements. Notwithstanding the provisions of the 1000 Series
     rules, when the Director has reasonable cause to believe that a proposed oil and
     gas operation could result in a significant adverse environmental impact on any
     air, water, soil, or biological resource, the Director shall conduct an onsite
     inspection and may request an emergency meeting of the Commission to
     address the issue.

c.   Surface owner waiver of 1000-Series Rules. The Commission shall not require
     compliance with Rules 1002. (except Rules 1002.e.(1), 1002.e.(4), and 1002.f,
     for which compliance will continue to be required), Rule 1003, or Rule 1004
     (except Rules 1004.c.(4) and 1004.c.(5), for which compliance will continue to be
     required), if the operator can demonstrate to the Director's or the Commission's
     satisfaction both that compliance with such rules is not necessary to protect the
     public health, safety and welfare, including prevention of significant adverse
     environmental impacts, and that the operator has entered into an agreement with
     the surface owner regarding topsoil protection and reclamation of the land.
     Absent bad faith conduct by the operator, penalties may only be imposed for
     non-compliance with a Commission order issued after a determination that,
     notwithstanding such agreement, compliance is necessary to protect public
     health, safety and welfare. Prior to final reclamation approval as to a specific
     well, the operator shall either comply with the rules or obtain a variance under
     Rule 502.b. This rule shall not have the effect of relieving an operator from
     compliance with the 900 Series Rules.

1002. SITE PREPARATION AND STABILIZATION

a.   Effective June 1, 1996:

     (1)    Fencing of drill sites and access roads on crop lands. During drilling
            operations on crop lands, when requested by the surface owner, the
            operator shall delineate each drillsite and access road on crop lands
            constructed after such date by berms, single strand fence, or other
            equivalent method in order to discourage unnecessary surface
            disturbances.

     (2)    Fencing of reserve pit when livestock is present. During drilling
            operations where livestock is in the immediate area and is not fenced out



                                                                                     464
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           by existing fences, the operator, at the request of the surface owner, will
           install a fence around the reserve pit.

     (3)   Fencing of well sites. Subsequent to drilling operations, where livestock
           is in the immediate area and is not fenced out by existing fences, the
           operator, at the request of the surface owner, will install a fence around
           the wellhead, pit, and production equipment to prevent livestock entry.

b.   Soil removal and segregation.

     (1)   Soil removal and segregation on crop land. As to all excavation
           operations undertaken after June 1, 1996 on crop land, the operator shall
           separate and store soil horizons separately from one another and mark or
           document stockpile locations to facilitate subsequent reclamation. When
           separating soil horizons, the operator shall segregate horizons based
           upon noted changes in physical characteristics such as organic content,
           color, texture, density, or consistency. Segregation will be performed to
           the extent practicable to a depth of six (6) feet or bedrock, whichever is
           shallower.

     (2)   Soil removal and segregation on non crop-land. As to all excavation
           operations undertaken after July 1, 1997 on non-crop land, the operator
           shall separate and store the topsoil horizon or the top six (6) inches,
           whichever is deeper, and mark or document stockpile locations to facilitate
           subsequent reclamation. When separating the soil horizons, the operator
           shall segregate the horizon based upon noted changes in physical
           characteristics such as organic content, color, texture, density, or
           consistency.

     (3)   Horizons too rocky or too thin. When the soil horizons are too rocky or
           too thin for the operator to practicably segregate, then the topsoil shall be
           segregated to the extent possible and stored. Too rocky shall mean that
           the soil horizon consists of greater than thirty five percent (35%) by
           volume rock fragments larger than ten (10) inches in diameter. Too thin
           shall mean soil horizons that are less than six (6) inches in thickness. The
           operator shall segregate remaining soils on crop land to the extent
           practicable to a depth of three (3) feet below the ground surface or
           bedrock, whichever is shallower, based upon noted changes in physical
           characteristics such as color, texture, density or consistency and such
           soils shall be stockpiled to avoid loss and mixing with other soils.

c.   Protection of soils. All stockpiled soils shall be protected from degradation due
     to contamination, compaction and, to the extent practicable, from wind and water
     erosion during drilling and production operations. Best management practices to
     prevent weed establishment and to maintain soil microbial activity shall be
     implemented.




                                                                                     465
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   Drill pad location. The drilling location shall be designed and constructed to
     provide a safe working area while reasonably minimizing the total surface area
     disturbed. Consistent with applicable spacing orders and well location orders and
     regulations, in locating drill pads, steep slopes shall be avoided when reasonably
     possible. The drill pad site shall be located on the most level location obtainable
     that will accommodate the intended use. If not avoidable, deep vertical cuts and
     steep long fill slopes shall be constructed to the least percent slope practical.
     Where feasible, operators shall use directional drilling to reduce cumulative
     impacts and adverse impacts on wildlife resources.

e.   Surface disturbance minimization.

     (1)   In order to reasonably minimize land disturbances and facilitate future
           reclamation, well sites, production facilities, gathering pipelines, and
           access roads shall be located, adequately sized, constructed, and
           maintained so as to reasonably control dust and minimize erosion,
           alteration of natural features, removal of surface materials, and
           degradation due to contamination.

     (2)   Operators shall avoid or minimize impacts to wetlands and riparian
           habitats to the degree practicable.

     (3)   Where practicable, operators shall consolidate facilities and pipeline
           rights-of-way in order to minimize adverse impacts to wildlife resources,
           including fragmentation of wildlife habitat, as well as cumulative impacts.

     (4)   Access roads. Existing roads shall be used to the greatest extent
           practicable to avoid erosion and minimize the land area devoted to oil and
           gas operations. Roadbeds shall be engineered to avoid or minimize
           impacts to riparian areas or wetlands to the extent practicable.
           Unavoidable impacts shall be mitigated. Road crossings of streams shall
           be designed and constructed to allow fish passage, where practicable and
           appropriate. Where feasible and practicable, operators are encouraged to
           share access roads in developing a field. Where feasible and practicable,
           roads shall be routed to complement other land usage. To the greatest
           extent practicable, all vehicles used by the operator, contractors, and
           other parties associated with the well shall not travel outside of the original
           access road boundary. Repeated or flagrant instance(s) of failure to
           restrict lease access to lease roads which result in unreasonable land
           damage or crop losses shall be subject to a penalty under Rule 523.

f.   Stormwater management.

     (1)   All oil and gas locations are subject to the Best Management Practices
           requirements of Rule 1002.f.(2). In addition, upon the termination of a
           construction stormwater permit issued by the Colorado Department of
           Public Health and Environment for an oil and gas location, such oil and




                                                                                      466
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           gas location is subject to the Post- Construction Stormwater Program
           requirements of Rule 1002.f.(3), except that such requirements are not
           applicable to Tier 1 Oil and Gas Locations.

     (2)   Oil and gas operators shall implement and maintain Best Management
           Practices (BMPs) at all oil and gas locations to control stormwater runoff in
           a manner that minimizes erosion, transport of sediment offsite, and site
           degradation. BMPs shall be maintained until the facility is abandoned and
           final reclamation is achieved pursuant to Rule 1004. Operators shall
           employ BMPs, as necessary to comply with this rule, at all oil and gas
           locations, including, but not limited to, well pads, soil stock piles, access
           roads, tank batteries, compressor stations, and pipeline rights of way.
           BMPs shall be selected based on site-specific conditions, such as slope,
           vegetation cover, and proximity to water bodies, and may include
           maintaining in-place some or all of the BMPs installed during the
           construction phase of the facility. Where applicable based on site-specific
           conditions, operators shall implement BMPs in accordance with good
           engineering practices, including measures such as:

           A.     Covering materials and activities and stormwater diversion to
                  minimize contact of precipitation and stormwater runoff with
                  materials, wastes, equipment, and activities with potential to result
                  in discharges causing pollution of surface waters.

           B.     Materials handling and spill prevention procedures and
                  practices implemented for material handling and spill prevention of
                  materials used, stored, or disposed of that could result in
                  discharges causing pollution of surface waters.

           C.     Erosion controls designed to minimize erosion from unpaved
                  areas, including operational well pads, road surfaces and
                  associated culverts, stream crossings, and cut/fill slopes.

           D.     Self-inspection, maintenance, and good housekeeping
                  procedures and schedules to facilitate identification of conditions
                  that could cause breakdowns or failures of BMPs. These
                  procedures shall include measures for maintaining clean, orderly
                  operations and facilities and shall address cleaning and
                  maintenance schedules and waste disposal practices. In
                  conducting inspections and maintenance relative to stormwater
                  runoff, operators shall consider seasonal factors, such as winter
                  snow cover and spring runoff from snowmelt, to ensure site
                  conditions and controls are adequate and in place to effectively
                  manage stormwater.

           E.     Spill response procedures for responding to and cleaning up
                  spills. The necessary equipment for spill cleanup shall be readily




                                                                                    467
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 available to personnel. Spill Prevention, Control, and
                 Countermeasure plans incorporated by reference must be identified
                 in the Post-Construction Stormwater Management Program
                 specified in Rule 1002.f.(3).

           F.    Vehicle tracking control practices to control potential sediment
                 discharges from operational roads, well pads, and other unpaved
                 surfaces. Practices could include road and pad design and
                 maintenance to minimize rutting and tracking, controlling site
                 access, street sweeping or scraping, tracking pads, wash racks,
                 education, or other sediment controls.

     (3)   Operators of oil and gas facilities shall develop a Post-Construction
           Stormwater Program in compliance with this section no later than the time
           of termination of stormwater permits issued by the Colorado Department
           of Public Health and Environment for construction of oil and gas facilities.

           A.    The Post-Construction Stormwater Program shall reflect good faith
                 efforts by operators to select and implement BMPs intended to
                 serve the purposes of this rule. BMPs shall be selected to address
                 potential sources of pollution which may reasonably be expected to
                 affect the quality of discharges associated with the ongoing
                 operation of production facilities during the post-construction and
                 reclamation operation of the facilities. Pollutant sources that must
                 be addressed by BMPs, if present, include:

                 i.      Transport of chemicals and materials, including loading and
                         unloading operations;

                 ii.     Vehicle/equipment fueling;

                 iii.    Outdoor storage activities, including those for chemicals and
                         additives;

                 iv.     Produced water and drilling fluids storage;

                 v.      Outdoor processing activities and machinery;

                 vi.     Significant dust or particulate generating processes;

                 vii.    Erosion and vehicle tracking from well pads, road surfaces,
                         and pipelines;

                 viii.   Waste disposal practices;

                 ix.     Leaks and spills; and

                 x.      Ground-disturbing maintenance activities.



                                                                                   468
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            B.     The Post-Construction Stormwater Program shall be developed,
                   supervised, documented, and maintained by a qualified person(s)
                   with training or prior work experience specific to stormwater
                   management. Employees and subcontractors shall be trained to
                   make them aware of the BMPs implemented and maintained at the
                   site and procedures for reporting needed maintenance or repairs.
                   Documentation shall include a description of the BMPs selected to
                   ensure proper implementation, operation, and maintenance.

            C.     Facility-specific maps, installation specification, and implementation
                   criteria shall also be included when general operating procedures
                   and descriptions are not adequate to clearly describe the
                   implementation and operation of BMPs.

1003. INTERIM RECLAMATION

a.   General. Debris and waste materials other than de minimis amounts, including,
     but not limited to, concrete, sack bentonite and other drilling mud additives, sand
     plastic, pipe and cable, as well as equipment associated with the drilling, re-
     entry, or completion operations shall be removed. All E&P waste shall be
     handled according to the 900 Series rules. All pits, cellars, rat holes, and other
     bore holes unnecessary for further lease operations, excluding the drilling pit, will
     be backfilled as soon as possible after the drilling rig is released to conform with
     surrounding terrain. On crop land, if requested by the surface owner, guy line
     anchors shall be removed as soon as reasonably possible af-ter the completion
     rig is released. When permanent guy line anchors are installed, it shall not be
     mandatory to remove them. When permanent guy line anchors are installed on
     cropland, care shall be taken to minimize disruption or cultivation, irrigation, or
     harvesting operations. If requested by the surface owner or its representative, the
     anchors shall be specifically marked, in addition to the marking required below,
     so as to facilitate farming operations. All guy line anchors left buried for future
     use shall be identified by a marker of bright color not less than four (4) feet in
     height and not greater than one (1) foot east of the guy line anchor. In addition,
     all well sites and surface production facilities shall be maintained in accordance
     with Rule 603.j.

b.   Interim reclamation of areas no longer in use. All disturbed areas affected by
     drilling or subsequent operations, except areas reasonably needed for production
     operations or for subsequent drilling operations to be commenced within twelve
     (12) months, shall be reclaimed as early and as nearly as practicable to their
     original condition or their final land use as designated by the surface owner and
     shall be maintained to control dust and minimize erosion to the extent
     practicable. As to crop lands, if subsidence occurs in such areas additional
     topsoil shall be added to the depression and the land shall be re-leveled as close
     to its original contour as practicable. Interim reclamation shall occur no later than
     three (3) months on crop land or six (6) months on non-crop land after such
     operations unless the Director extends the time period because of conditions



                                                                                      469
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     outside the control of the operator. Areas reasonably needed for production
     operations or for subsequent drilling operations to be commenced within twelve
     (12) months shall be compacted, covered, paved, or otherwise stabilized and
     maintained in such a way as to minimize dust and erosion to the extent
     practicable.

c.   Compaction alleviation. All areas compacted by drilling and subsequent oil and
     gas operations which are no longer needed following completion of such
     operations shall be cross-ripped. On crop land, such compaction alleviation
     operations shall be undertaken when the soil moisture at the time of ripping is
     below thirty-five percent (35%) of field capacity. Ripping shall be undertaken to a
     depth of eighteen (18) inches unless and to the extent bed rock is encountered at
     a shallower depth.

d.   Drilling pit closure. As part of interim reclamation, drilling pits shall be closed in
     the following manner:

     (1)    Drilling pit closure on crop land and within 100-year floodplain. On
            crop land or within the 100-year floodplain, water-based bentonitic drilling
            fluids, except de minimis amounts, shall be removed from the drilling pit
            and disposed of in accordance with the 900 Series rules. Operators shall
            ensure that soils meet the concentration levels of Table 910-1, above.
            Drilling pit reclamation, including the disposal of drilling fluids and cuttings,
            shall be performed in a manner so as to not result in the formation of an
            impermeable barrier. Any cuttings removed from the pit for drying shall be
            returned to the pit prior to backfilling, and no more than de minimis
            amounts may be incorporated into the surface materials. After the drilling
            pit is sufficiently dry, the pit shall be backfilled. The backfilling of the
            drilling pit shall be done to return the soils to their original relative
            positions. Closing and reclamation of drilling pits shall occur no later than
            three (3) months after drilling and completion activities conclude.

     (2)    Drilling pit closure on non-crop land. All drilling fluids shall be disposed
            of in accordance with the 900 Series rules. Operators shall ensure that
            soils meet the concentration levels of Table 910-1, above. After the drilling
            pit is sufficiently dry, the pit shall be backfilled. Materials removed from the
            pit for drying shall be returned to the pit prior to the backfilling. No more
            than de minimis amounts may be incorporated into the surface materials.
            The backfilling of the drilling pit will be done to return the soils to their
            original relative positions so that the muds and associated solids will be
            confined to the pit and not squeezed out and incorporated in the surface
            materials. Closure and reclamation of drilling pits shall occur no later than
            six (6) months after drilling and completion activities conclude, weather
            permitting.

     (3)    Minimum cover. On crop lands, a minimum of three (3) feet of backfill
            cover shall be applied over any remaining drilling pit contents. As to both



                                                                                         470
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           crop lands and non- crop lands, during the two (2) year period following
           drilling pit closure, if subsidence occurs over the closed drilling pit location
           additional topsoil shall be added to the depression and the land shall be
           re-leveled as close to its original contour as practicable.

e.   Restoration and revegetation. When a well is completed for production, all
     disturbed areas no longer needed will be restored and revegetated as soon as
     practicable.

     (1)   Revegetation of crop lands. All segregated soil horizons removed from
           crop lands shall be replaced to their original relative positions and contour,
           and shall be tilled adequately to re-establish a proper seedbed. The area
           shall be treated if necessary and practicable to prevent invasion of
           undesirable species and noxious weeds, and to control erosion. Any
           perennial forage crops that were present before disturbance shall be re-
           established.

     (2)   Revegetation of non-crop lands. All segregated soil horizons removed
           from non- crop lands shall be replaced to their original relative positions
           and contour as near as practicable to achieve erosion control and long-
           term stability, and shall be tilled adequately in order to establish a proper
           seedbed. The disturbed area then shall be reseeded in the first favorable
           season following rig demobilization. Reseeding with species consistent
           with the adjacent plant community is encouraged. In the absence of an
           agreement between the operator and the affected surface owner as to
           what seed mix should be used, the operator shall consult with a
           representative of the local soil conservation district to determine the
           proper seed mix to use in revegetating the disturbed area. In an area
           where an operator has drilled or plans to drill multiple wells, in the
           absence of an agreement between the operator and the affected surface
           owner, the operator may rely upon previous advice given by the local soil
           conservation district in determining the proper seed mixes to be used in
           revegetating each type of terrain upon which operations are to be
           conducted.

           Interim reclamation of all disturbed areas no longer in use shall be
           considered complete when all ground surface disturbing activities at the
           site have been completed, and all disturbed areas have been either built
           on, compacted, covered, paved, or otherwise stabilized in such a way as
           to minimize erosion to the extent practicable, or a uniform vegetative cover
           has been established that reflects pre-disturbance or reference area forbs,
           shrubs, and grasses with total percent plant cover of at least eighty
           percent (80%) of pre-disturbance levels or reference areas, excluding
           noxious weeds. Re-seeding alone is not sufficient.

     (3)   Interim reclamation completion notice, Form 4. The operator shall
           submit a Sundry Notice, Form 4, which describes the interim reclamation



                                                                                       471
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            procedures and any associated mitigation measures performed, any
            changes, if applicable in the landowner’s designated final land use, and at
            a minimum four (4) photographs taken during the growing season facing
            each cardinal direction which document the success of the interim
            reclamation and one (1) photograph which documents the total cover of
            live perennial vegetation of adjacent or nearby undisturbed land or the
            reference area. Each photograph shall be identified by date taken, well
            name, GPS location, and direction of view.

f.   Weed control. During drilling, production, and reclamation operations, all
     disturbed areas shall be kept as free of all undesirable plant species designated
     to be noxious weeds as practicable. Weed control measures shall be conducted
     in compliance with the Colorado Noxious Weed Act, C.R.S. §35-5.5-115 and the
     current rules pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the Colorado
     Noxious Weed Act. It is recommended that the operator consult with the local
     weed control agency or other weed control authority when weed infestation
     occurs. It is the responsibility of the operator to monitor affected and reclaimed
     lands for noxious weed infestations. If applicable, the Director may require a
     weed control plan.

1004. FINAL RECLAMATION OF WELL SITES AND ASSOCIATED PRODUCTION
FACILITIES

a.   Well sites and associated production facilities. Upon the plugging and
     abandonment of a well, all pits, mouse and rat holes and cellars shall be
     backfilled. All debris, abandoned gathering line risers and flowline risers, and
     surface equipment shall be removed within three (3) months of plugging a well.
     All access roads to plugged and abandoned wells and associated production
     facilities shall be closed, graded and recontoured. Culverts and any other
     obstructions that were part of the access road(s) shall be removed. Well
     locations, access roads and associated facilities shall be reclaimed. As
     applicable, compaction alleviation, restoration, and revegetation of well sites,
     associated production facilities, and access roads shall be performed to the
     same standards as established for interim reclamation under Rule 1003. All other
     equipment, supplies, weeds, rubbish, and other waste material shall be removed.
     The burning or burial of such material on the premises shall be performed in
     accordance with applicable local, state, or federal solid waste disposal
     regulations and in accordance with the 900-Series Rules. In addition, material
     may be burned or buried on the premises only with the prior written consent of
     the surface owner. All such reclamation work shall be completed within three (3)
     months on crop land and twelve (12) months on non-crop land after plugging a
     well or final closure of associated production facilities. The Director may grant an
     extension where unusual circumstances are encountered, but every reasonable
     effort shall be made to complete reclamation before the next local growing
     season.




                                                                                     472
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Production and special purpose pit closure. The operator shall comply with
     the 900 series rules for the removal or treatment of E&P waste remaining in a
     production or special purpose pit before the pit may be closed for final
     reclamation. After any remaining E&P waste is removed or treated, all such pits
     must be back-filled to return the soils to their original relative positions. As to both
     crop lands and non-crop lands, if subsidence occurs over closed pit locations,
     additional topsoil shall be added to the depression and the land shall be re-
     leveled as close to its original contour as practicable.

c.   Final reclamation threshold for release of financial assurance. Successful
     reclamation of the well site and access road will be considered completed when:

     (1)    On crop land, reclamation has been performed as per Rules 1003 and
            1004, and observation by the Director over two growing seasons has
            indicated no significant unrestored subsidence.

     (2)    On non-crop land, reclamation has been performed as per Rules 1003
            and 1004, and disturbed areas have been either built on, compacted,
            covered, paved, or otherwise stabilized in such a way as to minimize
            erosion to the extent practicable, or a uniform vegetative cover has been
            established that reflects pre- disturbance or reference area forbs, shrubs,
            and grasses with total percent plant cover of at least eighty percent (80%)
            of pre-disturbance or reference area levels, excluding noxious weeds, as
            determined by the Director through a visual appraisal. The Director shall
            consider the total cover of live perennial vegetation of adjacent or nearby
            undisturbed land, not including overstory or tree canopy cover, having
            similar soils, slope and aspect of the reclaimed area.

     (3)    Disturbances resulting from flow line installations shall be deemed
            adequately reclaimed when the disturbed area is reasonably capable of
            supporting the pre- disturbance land use.

     (4)    A Sundry Notice Form 4, has been submitted by the operator which
            describes the final reclamation procedures, any changes, if applicable, in
            the landowner’s designated final land use, and any mitigation measures
            associated with final reclamation performed by the operator, and

     (5)    A final reclamation inspection has been completed by the Director, there
            are no outstanding compliance issues relating to Commission rules,
            regulations, orders, permit conditions or the act, and the Director has
            notified the operator that final reclamation has been approved.

d.   Final reclamation of all disturbed areas shall be considered complete when all
     activities disturbing the ground have been completed, and all disturbed areas
     have been either built upon, compacted, covered, paved, or otherwise stabilized
     in such a way as to minimize erosion, or a uniform vegetative cover has been
     established that reflects pre- disturbance or reference area forbs, shrubs, and




                                                                                         473
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     grasses with total percent plant cover of at least eighty percent (80%) of pre-
     disturbance or reference area levels, excluding noxious weeds, or equivalent
     permanent, physical erosion reduction methods have been employed. Re-
     seeding alone is not sufficient.

e.   Weed control. All areas being reclaimed shall be kept as free as practicable of
     all undesirable plant species designated to be noxious weeds. Weed control
     measures shall be conducted in compliance with the Colorado Noxious Weed
     Act, C.R.S. §35-5.5-115 and the current rules pertaining to the administration and
     enforcement of the Colorado Noxious Weed Act. It is recommended that the
     operator consult with the local weed control agency or other weed control
     authority when weed infestation occurs. It is the responsibility of the operator to
     monitor affected and reclaimed lands for noxious weed infestations. If applicable,
     the Director may require a weed control plan.




                                                                                       474
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


1100 SERIES        FLOWLINE REGULATIONS

1101. REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS

1101.a.     Flowline and Crude Oil Transfer Line Statuses.

      (1)   Pre-Commissioned Status means a constructed flowline or crude oil
            transfer line that:

            A.     Has not been connected or opened to sources of oil, condensate,
                   produced water, or natural gas;

            B.     Is isolated from active status assets;

            C.     Does not contain oil, condensate, produced water, or natural gas;
                   and

            D.     Is OOSLAT.

      (2)   Active Status means a flowline or crude oil transfer line that is connected
            or open to sources of oil, condensate, produced water, or natural gas or is
            not in the pre-commissioned, out-of-service, or abandoned status, or
            contains these products.

      (3)   Out-of-Service Status means a flowline or crude oil transfer line that is
            associated with an inactive well or the operator has ceased normal
            operations. For an out of service line, the operator must:

            A.     Isolate or disconnect it from sources of oil, condensate, produced
                   water, or natural gas;

            B.     Evacuate all hydrocarbons and produced water to ensure the line is
                   safe and inert and depressurize the line; and

            C.     apply OOSLAT.

      (4)   Abandoned Status means a flowline or crude oil transfer line that has
            been permanently removed from service in accordance with Rule 1105.

1101.b.     Off-Location Flowline Registration.

      (1)   An operator must register every off-location flowline either individually or
            as part of a flowline system. An operator may register individual off-
            location flowlines or a flowline system by submitting a Flowline Report,
            Form 44, to the Director within 90 days after the flowline or flowline system
            is placed in active status. An off-location flowline registered as part of a
            produced water transfer system is not subject to this requirement.




                                                                                        475
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Registration Requirements. For off-location flowlines registered pursuant
           to this section, operators must include the following information:

           A.    Geographic Information System (GIS) data that includes the
                 flowline alignment and the following attributes: fluid type, pipe
                 material type, and pipe size. GIS data must be submitted in the
                 North American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83) and in a format approved
                 by the Director;

           B.    Bedding materials used in construction;

           C.    Pipe material;

           D.    Maximum flowline diameter;

           E.    Fluids that will be transferred;

           F.    The maximum anticipated operating pressure, testing pressure, test
                 date and chart of successful pressure test;

           G.    Identify and describe the starting and ending oil and gas locations;

           H.    Description of corrosion protection;

           I.    Description of the integrity management system utilized in
                 accordance with Rule 1104.f.; and

           J.    Description of the construction method used for public by-ways,
                 road crossings, sensitive wildlife habitats, sensitive areas, and
                 natural and manmade watercourses (i.e., open trench, bored and
                 cased, or bored only), if applicable.

     (3)   For off-location flowlines in existence prior to May 1, 2018, and already
           registered with the Commission, operators must submit, on or before
           December 1, 2020, a Flowline Report, Form 44, that includes:

           A.    A description of the corrosion protection;

           B.    A description of the integrity management system utilized in
                 accordance with Rule 1104.f.; and

           C.    Geographic Information System (GIS) data that includes the
                 flowline alignment and the following attributes: fluid type, pipe
                 material type, and pipe size. GIS data must be submitted in the
                 North American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83) and in a format approved
                 by the Director. The GIS data for these off-location flowlines must
                 be the most accurate data possible without using invasive methods
                 and a minimum horizontal positional accuracy of +/- 25 feet.




                                                                                       476
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (4)   Within 90 days of modifying the alignment of a registered off-location
            flowline, the operator must report the change to the Director by submitting
            a Flowline Report, Form 44.

      (5)   If a document is executed after May 1, 2018, that grants a right of access
            or easement to locate an off-location flowline on lands, then either the
            document itself or a memorandum or notice of such document must be
            recorded by the operator in the office of the county clerk and recorder of
            the county where the lands are located. If the document contains a legal
            description or map of the access or easement, then the memorandum or
            notice must include the legal description or map. Upon the surface
            owner’s request, the operator shall provide a copy of the recorded
            document to the surface owner.

1101.c.     Domestic Tap Registration.

      (1)   Within 90-days of installation or discovery of a domestic tap connected to
            the operator’s flowline, an operator must submit a Flowline Report, Form
            44, to the Director to register the tap. The registration must include the
            latitude and longitude of the flowline or wellhead connection for the
            domestic tap and the street address or the latitude and longitude of the
            point of delivery.

      (2)   For domestic taps installed after May 1, 2018, an operator must register
            the domestic tap pursuant to subpart (1) and notify the domestic tap owner
            in writing that the domestic tap must:

            A.    Be locatable by a tracer line or location device placed adjacent to or
                  in the trench of the domestic tap to facilitate locating it, and a tracer
                  wire or metallic device for locating must be resistant to corrosion
                  damage;

            B.    Be installed by a licensed plumber;

            C.    Have properly-sized regulators at the point the tap connects to the
                  operator’s flowline and at the point the tap delivers gas to the
                  dwelling or structure where the gas is utilized;

            D.    Include all necessary piping to accommodate appropriate
                  odorization and equipment to control vapor content and gas
                  utilization metering;

            E.    Be installed using materials designed for gas service and
                  appropriate cover and bedding material in accordance with industry
                  standards; and

            F.    Have markers that are installed and maintained at the point the
                  domestic tap connects to the operator’s flowline and at the point it



                                                                                      477
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 delivers gas to the dwelling or structure where the gas is utilized
                 consistent with Rule 1102.g.

     (3)   An operator must supply odorant to the domestic tap owner at the time of
           installation until abandonment of the domestic tap.

     (4)   Within 30 days of realigning, abandoning, discovering, or receiving
           notification that a registered domestic tap has been re-aligned or
           abandoned, the operator must report the change to the Director by
           submitting a Flowline Report, Form 44.

1101.d.     Crude Oil Transfer Line and Produced Water Transfer System
      Registration.

     (1)   Registration. At least 10 days before beginning construction of a crude oil
           transfer line or produced water transfer system, an operator must register
           it by submitting a Flowline Report, Form 44, to the Director. A produced
           water transfer system registered as part of a flowline system is not subject
           to this requirement. An operator may register multiple crude oil transfer
           lines using a single Form 44 to register those lines as a system.

           For a crude oil transfer line or produced water transfer system constructed
           before May 1, 2018, and already registered with the Commission,
           operators must submit:

           A.    Geographic Information System (GIS) data as required by (2)A.,
                 below, on or before December 1, 2020; and

           B.    Update any information required by (2)B., below, to the extent such
                 information becomes known by the operator or can be acquired
                 from such relevant records in the possession of the operator or its
                 immediate predecessor in interest.

     (2)   As-built Specifications. For a crude oil transfer line or produced water
           transfer system, the operator must submit a Flowline Report, Form 44,
           within 90 days of placing it into active status to include the following
           information:

           A.    Geographic Information System (GIS) data that includes the
                 flowline or crude oil transfer line alignment, isolation valves, and the
                 following attributes: fluid type, pipe material type, and pipe size.
                 GIS data shall be submitted in the North American Datum of 1983
                 (NAD 83) and in a format approved by the Director;

           B.    Specifications:

                 i.     Bedding materials used in construction;




                                                                                       478
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 ii.     Fluids that will be transferred;

                 iii.    The maximum anticipated operating pressure, testing
                         pressure, test date, and chart of successful pressure test;

                 iv.     The pipe description (i.e., maximum size, grade, wall
                         thickness, coating, standard dimension ratio, and material);

                 v.      The burial depth of the crude oil transfer line or produced
                         water transfer system;

                 vi.     Description of corrosion protection;

                 vii.    Description of the integrity management system utilized in
                         accordance with Rule 1104.f.;

                 viii.   Description of the construction method used for public by-
                         ways, road crossings, sensitive wildlife habitats, sensitive
                         areas and natural and manmade watercourses (i.e., open
                         trench, bored and cased, or bored only); and

                 ix.     Copy of the operator’s crude oil leak protection and
                         monitoring plan prepared in accordance with 1104.g. If an
                         operator has previously filed with the Director a current copy
                         of its leak protection and monitoring plan it may cross
                         reference the oil and gas facility or location for which the
                         leak protection and monitoring plan was previously filed with
                         reference to the API number, facility identification number, or
                         COGCC document number.

           C.    An affidavit of completion stating the operator designed and
                 installed the crude oil transfer line or produced water transfer
                 system in compliance with the 1100 Series rules.

     (3)   Within 90 days of modifying the alignment of a registered crude oil transfer
           line, the operator must report the change to the Director by submitting a
           Flowline Report, Form 44.

     (4)   For produced water transfer systems that have had system alignment
           changes during the preceding year, an operator must submit a Flowline
           Report, Form 44, by May 1st of each year to report the new alignment.

     (5)   If a document is executed after May 1, 2018, that grants a right of access
           or easement to locate a crude oil transfer line or produced water system
           on lands, then either the document itself or a memorandum or notice of
           such document must be recorded by the operator in the office of the
           county clerk and recorder of the county where the lands are located. If the
           document contains a legal description or map of the access or easement,



                                                                                       479
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             then the memorandum or notice must include the legal description or map.
             Upon the surface owner’s request, the operator shall provide a copy of the
             recorded document to the surface owner.

1101.e.      Disclosure of Form 44 Data.

      (1)    The Director will make Geographic Information System (GIS) data for off-
             location flowlines, crude oil transfer lines, and produced water transfer
             systems available through a publicly accessible online map viewer. Line
             attributes available to the public through the online map viewer will include
             the spatial location, operator, fluid type, pipe material type, and pipe size.
             Online map viewer data only will be available at scales greater than or
             equal to 1:6,000. Any person may view spatial data at scales less than
             1:6,000 for an individual parcel at the Commission’s office.

      (2)    Upon request from a local governmental designee(s), and subject to
             executing a confidentiality agreement and the provisions of the Colorado
             Open Records Act, the Commission will provide to the local government
             all Geographic Information System (GIS) data submitted through Flowline
             Reports, Form 44s, for all off-location flowlines, crude oil transfer lines and
             produced water transfer systems. The local government may only
             reproduce or publish data that the Commission makes publicly available
             through its website. A local government may share more specific data in
             person than that which the Commission makes publicly available, but the
             information must be treated as confidential and may not be reproduced or
             published.

      (3)    Except as provided in parts (1) and (2), above, the Commission will keep
             all such Geographic Information System (GIS) data confidential to the
             extent allowed by the Colorado Open Records Act.

1102. FLOWLINE AND CRUDE OIL TRANSFER LINE REQUIREMENTS

1102.a.      Material. Materials for pipe and pipe components must be:

      (1)    Able to maintain the structural integrity of the flowline or crude oil transfer
             line under anticipated operating temperature, pressure, and other
             operating conditions; and

      (2)    Compatible with the substances to be transported.

1102.b.       Applicable Technical Standards. Each component of a flowline or crude
      oil transfer line installed or repaired must meet one of the following standards
      appropriate for the component:

      (1)    American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Pipeline
             Transportation Systems for Liquids and Slurries, 2016 Edition (ASME
             B31.4-2016), and no later editions of the standard. ASME B31.4-2016 is



                                                                                         480
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           available for public inspection during normal business hours from the
           Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
           Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. Additionally, ASME B31.4-
           2016 may be examined at any state publications depository library and is
           available to purchase from the ASME. The ASME can be contacted at
           Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763;

     (2)   ASME Gas Transmission and Distribution Piping Systems, 2016 Edition
           (ASME B31.8-2016), and no later editions of the standard. ASME B31.8-
           2016 is available for public inspection during normal business hours from
           the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120
           Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. Additionally, ASME
           B31.8-2016 may be examined at any state publications depository library
           and is available to purchase from the ASME. The ASME can be contacted
           at Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763;

     (3)   ASME Process Piping, 2016 Edition (ASME 31.3-2016), and no later
           editions of the standard. ASME 31.3-2016 is available for public inspection
           during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
           office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver,
           Colorado 80203. Additionally, ASME 31.3-2016 may be examined at any
           state publications depository library and is available to purchase from the
           ASME. The ASME can be contacted at Two Park Avenue, New York, NY
           10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763;

     (4)   API Specification 15S, Spoolable Reinforced Plastic Line Pipe, Second
           Edition, March 2016 (API Specification 15S), and no later editions of the
           standard. API Specification 15S is available for public inspection during
           normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of
           the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.
           In addition, API Specification 15S may be examined at any state
           publications depository library and is available from API at 1220 L Street,
           NW Washington, DC 20005-4070, 1-202-682-8000;

     (5)   API RP 15TL4 (R2018) Recommended Practice for Care and Use of
           Fiberglass Tubulars, Second Edition. March 1999 together with API
           Specification 15HR, High-pressure Fiberglass Line Pipe, Fourth Edition,
           February 2016 (API Specification 15HR), and no later editions of the
           standards. API RP 15TL4 and API Specification 15HR are available for
           public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
           Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
           801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, API RP 15TL4 and API
           Specification 15HR may be examined at any state publications depository
           library and are available from API at 1220 L Street, NW Washington, DC
           20005-4070, 1-202-682-8000;




                                                                                  481
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (6)    API RP 15TL4 (R2018) Recommended Practice for Care and Use of
             Fiberglass Tubulars, Second Edition, March 1999, together with API
             Specification 15LR (R2013), Low Pressure Fiberglass Line Pipe and
             Fittings, Seventh Edition, August 2001(API Specification 15LR), and no
             later editions of the standards. API RP 15TL4 and API Specification 15LR
             are available for public inspection during normal business hours from the
             Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
             Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, API RP 15TL4 and
             API Specification 15LR may be examined at any state publications
             depository library and are available from API at 1220 L Street, NW
             Washington, DC 20005-4070, 1-202-682-8000; or

      (7)    ASME “Repair of Pressure Equipment and Piping” (ASME PCC-2-2018)
             and no later editions of the standard. The ASME standard is available for
             public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
             Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
             801, Denver, Colorado 80203. Additionally, the standard may be
             examined at any state publications depository library. The ASME standard
             is available to purchase from ASME at Two Park Avenue, New York, NY
             10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763.

1102.c.     Design. Each component of a flowline or crude oil transfer line must be
      designed to:

      (1)    Prevent failure by minimizing internal or external corrosion and the effects
             of transported fluids;

      (2)    Withstand maximum anticipated operating pressures and other internal
             loadings without impairment;

      (3)    Withstand anticipated external pressures and loads that will be imposed
             on the pipe after installation;

      (4)    Allow for line maintenance, periodic line cleaning, and integrity testing;
             and

      (5)    Have adequate controls and protective equipment to prevent it from
             operating above the maximum operating pressure.

1102.d.      Installation.

      (1)    Installation crews must be trained in flowline or crude oil transfer line
             installation practices for which they are tasked to perform.

      (2)    All workers performing welding on steel flowline or steel crude oil transfer
             lines in pressure service, must be certified in accordance with:




                                                                                          482
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     API Standard 1104, Welding of Pipelines and Related Facilities,
                  Twenty First Edition, September 2013 and no later editions of the
                  standard. API Standard 1104 is available for public inspection
                  during normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator
                  at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801,
                  Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, API Standard 1104 may be
                  examined at any state publications depository library and is
                  available from API at 1220 L Street, NW Washington, DC 20005-
                  4070, 1-202-682-8000; or

           B.     ASME BPV Code 2017 Section IX - Welding, Brazing and Fusing
                  Qualification and no later editions of the code. The Section is
                  available for public inspection during normal business hours from
                  the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
                  1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In
                  addition, the ASME BPV Code may be examined at any state
                  publications depository library The ASME BPV Code is available to
                  purchase from the ASME at Two Park Avenue, New York, NY
                  10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763.

     (3)   Non-destructive testing of welds for newly constructed steel off-location
           flowlines or steel crude oil transfer lines must be done in accordance with
           one of the following:

           A.     Those standards established by the U.S. Department of
                  Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
                  Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 192.243 and 49 C.F.R. §
                  195.234, in existence as of the date of this regulation, and no later
                  amendments. 49 C.F.R. § 192.243 and 49 C.F.R. § 195.234 are
                  available for public inspection during normal business hours from
                  the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
                  1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.
                  Additionally, 49 C.F.R. § 192.243 and 49 C.F.R. § 195.234 may be
                  found at https://www.phmsa.dot.gov; or

           B.     One of the standards set forth in Rule 1102.b. or Rule 1102.d.(2)A.
                  and B., above.

     (4)   Non-destructive testing is not required for repairs of existing steel off-
           location flowlines or steel crude oil transfer lines.

     (5)   No pipe or other component may be installed unless it has been visually
           inspected at the site of installation to ensure that it is not damaged.

     (6)   Off-location flowlines and crude oil transfer lines must be locatable by a
           tracer line or location device placed adjacent to or in the trench of a buried
           nonmetallic flowline or crude oil transfer line. Any installed tracer wire or




                                                                                        483
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            metallic device for locating must be resistant to corrosion damage.
            Caution tape must be placed in the trench above the line and a minimum
            of one foot below grade. Metallic locatable caution tape may be used to
            satisfy both the tracer and caution tape requirements, if designed to be a
            location device.

     (7)    Flowlines or crude oil transfer lines must be installed in a manner that
            minimizes interference with agriculture, land under construction,
            structures, road and utility construction, wildlife resources, the introduction
            of secondary stresses, and the possibility of damage to the pipe.

     (8)    The pipe must be handled in a manner that minimizes stress and avoids
            physical damage to the pipe during stringing, joining, or lowering in.
            During the lowering in process the pipe string must be properly supported
            so as not to induce excess stresses on the pipe or the pipe joints or cause
            weakening or damage to the outer surface of the pipe.

     (9)    Flowlines or crude oil transfer lines that cross a municipality, county, or
            state graded road must be bored unless the responsible governing agency
            specifically permits the operator to open cut the road.

     (10)   Flowlines and crude oil transfer lines must be installed pursuant to the
            manufacturer’s specifications. In the absence of applicable manufacturer’s
            specifications, the following requirements apply:

            A.     Flowline or crude oil transfer line trenches must be constructed to
                   allow the line to rest on undisturbed native soil and provide
                   continuous support along the length of the pipe;

            B.     Trench bottoms must be free of rocks greater than two inches in
                   diameter, debris, trash, and other foreign material not required for
                   flowline or crude oil transfer line installation; and

            C.     Over excavated trench bottoms must be backfilled with appropriate
                   material and compacted prior to installation of the pipe to provide
                   continuous support along the length of the pipe.

     (11)   The width of the trench must provide adequate clearance on each side of
            the pipe. Trench walls must be excavated to ensure minimal sloughing of
            sidewall material into the trench. Subsoil from the excavated trench must
            be stockpiled separately from previously stripped topsoil.

     (12)   A flowline or crude oil transfer line trench must be backfilled in a manner
            that provides firm support under the pipe and prevents damage to the pipe
            and pipe coating from equipment or from the backfill material. Sufficient
            backfill material must be placed in the pipe springline to provide long-term
            support for the pipe. Backfill material that will be within two feet of the pipe
            must be free of rocks greater than two inches in diameter and foreign



                                                                                        484
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             debris. Backfilling material must be compacted as appropriate during
             placement in a manner that provides support for the pipe and reduces the
             potential for damage to the pipe and pipe joints.

      (13)   Flowlines and crude oil transfer lines that traverse sensitive wildlife
             habitats or sensitive areas, such as wetlands, streams, or other surface
             waterbodies, must be installed in a manner that minimizes impacts to
             these areas.

1102.e.      Cover for Subsurface Flowlines and Crude Oil Transfer Lines.

      (1)    All installed flowlines and crude oil transfer lines must have cover
             sufficient to protect them from damage. On cropland, all flowlines must
             have a minimum cover of three (3) feet.

      (2)    Where an underground structure, geologic, or other uncontrollable
             condition prevents a flowline or crude oil transfer line from being installed
             with minimum cover, or when there is a written agreement between the
             surface owner and the operator specifying flowline cover depth of less
             than minimum cover, it may be installed with less than minimum cover or
             above-ground, if:

             A.     The exposed pipe and components are designed to withstand
                    anticipated conditions;

             B.     The operator installs it in compliance with manufacturer’s
                    specifications; and

             C.     The operator installs it in a manner to withstand anticipated external
                    loads.

      (3)    Operators must protect above-ground flowlines or crude oil transfer lines,
             or associated above-ground equipment, from vehicular traffic by installing
             the lines a safe distance from public roads or installing barricades.

1102.f.      Top Soil Management and Reclamation.

      (1)    Site preparation and stabilization must be performed in accordance with
             Rule 1002 for trenches greater than eight inches in width. This
             requirement to segregate and backfill topsoil does not apply to trenches
             which are eight inches or less in width. Operator must make reasonable
             efforts to install flowlines or crude oil transfer lines parallel to crop
             irrigation rows on flood irrigated land.

      (2)    All trenches must be maintained in order to correct subsidence and
             reasonably minimize erosion.




                                                                                       485
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (3)    Interim and final reclamation, including revegetation, must be performed in
              accordance with the applicable 1000 Series rules.

1102.g.       Marking.

       (1)    Where crossing public rights-of-way or utility easement crossings, an
              operator must install and maintain markers that identify the location of
              flowlines or crude oil transfer lines. These markers must be placed in a
              manner to reduce the possibility of damage or interference with surface
              use but need not be placed where impracticable or if the landowner does
              not grant permission.

       (2)    Operators must install a marker consistent with the version of 49 C.F.R. §
              195.410 in existence as of the date of this regulation and does not include
              later amendments, or the marker must include the following language:

              “Warning”, “Caution” or “Danger” followed by the words “gas or petroleum
              (or name of gas or fluid transported) in the flowline (or crude oil transfer
              line)” along with the name of the operator and the telephone number
              where the operator can be reached at all times. The letters must be
              legible, written on a background of sharply contrasting color and on each
              side with at least one (1) inch high with one-quarter (¼) inch stroke.

              49 C.F.R. § 195.410 is available for public inspection during normal
              business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
              Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.
              Additionally, the regulation may be examined at any state publications
              depository library or found at https://www.phmsa.dot.gov.

1102.h.      Inspection. Before placing a newly constructed line into active status, a
      crude oil transfer line or off-location flowline must be inspected by a third-party
      inspector who is trained in the installation of crude oil transfer lines or off-location
      flowlines.

       (1)    A line constructed of welded steel pipe must be inspected by a third-party
              inspector who is: a Professional Engineer registered with the State of
              Colorado, working under the supervision of a Professional Engineer
              registered with the State of Colorado, a National Welding Inspection
              School Certified Pipeline Welding Inspector (CPWI), an American Welding
              Society Certified Welding Inspector (CWI), a National Welding Inspection
              School Certified Hydrotest Inspector, a National Association of Corrosion
              Engineers Certified Coating Inspector (Level 1 or higher), or an API
              Certified Pipeline Inspector.

       (2)    A line constructed of materials other than welded steel pipe must be
              inspected by a third-party inspector who is: a Professional Engineer
              registered with the State of Colorado, working under the supervision of a
              Professional Engineer registered with the State of Colorado, or who has



                                                                                          486
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            been trained on proper installation techniques by the pipe manufacturer or
            their representative, if available.

      (3)   The operator must maintain inspection records, including at a minimum:

            A.     The third-party inspector’s certification that the crude oil transfer
                   line was installed as prescribed by the manufacturer’s
                   specifications and in accordance with the requirements of the 1100
                   Series rules; and

            B.     The third-party inspector’s certification qualifications.

1102.i.     Maintenance.

      (1)   Each operator must take reasonable actions to prevent failures and
            leakage, and minimize corrosion of flowlines and crude oil transfer lines.

      (2)   Whenever an operator discovers any condition that could adversely affect
            the safe and proper operation of a flowline or crude oil transfer line, the
            operator must correct the condition as soon as possible. However, if the
            condition presents an immediate hazard to persons or property, the
            operator may not operate the affected segment until the operator has
            corrected the condition.

      (3)   If the flowline or crude oil transfer line lacks integrity, the operator must
            immediately investigate, report, and remediate any Spills or Releases in
            accordance with the 900 Series rules.

      (4)   While conducting maintenance, an operator must take reasonable
            precautions to prevent unintentional releases of pressure or fluid.

1102.j.     Repair.

      (1)   Each operator must make repairs in a safe manner that prevents injury to
            persons and damage to equipment and property.

      (2)   An operator may not use any pipe, valve, or fitting to repair a flowline or
            crude oil transfer line unless the component meets the installation
            requirements of the 1100 Series rules for the repaired segment. For a
            flowline or crude oil transfer line installed prior to May 1, 2018 that
            undergoes a major modification or change in status after May 1, 2018, the
            segment repaired must satisfy all applicable requirements of the 1100
            Series rules before an operator can return the flowline or crude oil transfer
            line to active status.

      (3)   An operator may not install or operate any pipe, valve, or fitting for
            replacement or repair of a flowline or crude oil transfer line unless it is
            designed to the maximum anticipated operating pressure.



                                                                                          487
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (4)   An operator must verify the integrity of any replaced or repaired segment
            of flowline or crude oil transfer line before returning it to use.

      (5)   An operator must conduct a repair in accordance with the manufacturer’s
            specifications or an applicable technical standard identified in Rule
            1102.b.

      (6)   Each segment of pipe, valve, or fitting that is found to leak or is unsafe
            must be replaced or repaired before returning it to service.

      (7)   While conducting a repair, an operator must take reasonable precautions
            to prevent unintentional releases of pressure or fluid.

1102.k.     Operating requirements.

      (1)   No flowline or crude oil transfer line may be in active status and operated
            until it has demonstrated compliance with Rule 1104, Integrity
            Management.

      (2)   The maximum operating pressure for a flowline or crude oil transfer line
            may not exceed the manufacturer’s specifications of the pipe or the
            manufacturer’s specifications of any other component of it, whichever is
            less.

1102.l.     Corrosion control.

      (1)   All coated pipe for underground service must be electronically inspected
            prior to installation using coating deficiency (i.e. scratch, bubble, and
            “holiday”) detectors to check for any faults not observable by visual
            examination. The detector must operate in accordance with
            manufacturer's specifications and at a voltage level appropriate for the
            electrical characteristics of the flowline or crude oil transfer line being
            tested. During installation all joints, fittings, and tie-ins must be coated with
            materials compatible with the coatings on the pipe. Coating materials
            must:

            A.     Be designed to mitigate corrosion of the buried pipe;

            B.     Have sufficient adhesion to the metal surface to prevent under-film
                   migration of moisture;

            C.     Be sufficiently ductile to resist cracking;

            D.     Have enough strength to resist damage due to handling and soil
                   stress;

            E.     Support any supplemental cathodic protection; and




                                                                                         488
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             F.     If the coating is an insulating type, have low moisture absorption
                    and provide high electrical resistance.

      (2)    Cathodic protection systems must meet or exceed the minimum criteria
             set forth in the National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE)
             standard practice SP0169-2007 (formerly RP0169), Control of External
             Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping Systems, 2007
             Edition (NACE SP0169-2007), and no later editions of the standard.
             NACE SP0169-2007 is available for public inspection during normal
             business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
             Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.
             Additionally, NACE SP0169-2007 may be examined at any state
             publications depository library and is available to purchase from the
             NACE. The NACE can be contacted at 15835 Park Ten Place, Houston,
             Texas 77084, 1-281-228-6200.

      (3)    An operator must take prompt remedial action to correct any abnormal
             internal corrosion. Remedial action may include increased pigging, using
             corrosion inhibitors, coating the internal flowline or crude oil transfer line
             (e.g. an epoxy paint or other plastic liner), or a combination of these
             actions.

1102.m. Record Keeping. An operator must maintain records of flowline or crude oil
      transfer line size, route, materials, maximum anticipated operating pressure,
      pressure or other integrity test results, inspections, repairs, integrity management
      documentation, applicable technical standard(s) used, design, installation, cover
      for subsurface flowlines and crude oil transfer lines, top soil management and
      reclamation, marking, maintenance and corrosion control, until the operator
      submits abandonment information pursuant to Rule 1105.f. If an operator relies
      upon manufacturer’s specifications, it is the operator’s responsibility to ensure
      the appropriate specifications are available upon request by the Commission.
      These records are to be transferred with a change of operator.

1102.n.       One Call participation. Every operator with underground facilities, as
      defined in §9-1.5-102(7), C.R.S., including wells and below-ground flowlines and
      crude oil transfer lines, must become a Tier One member of the Utility
      Notification Center of Colorado (CO 811) and participate in Colorado's One Call
      notification system, the requirements of which are established by §9-1.5-101.,
      C.R.S. et seq.

      (1)    An operator with underground facilities must confirm its CO 811
             membership when submitting an Operator Registration, Form 1, Change
             of Operator, Form 10, Gas Facility Registration, Form 12, or Flowline
             Report, Form 44.

      (2)    An operator that does not have underground facilities is exempt from the
             CO 811 membership requirement.




                                                                                         489
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (3)   Within 30 days of completing an asset purchase, a transfer, construction
            or relocation of a flowline or crude oil transfer line, an operator must
            update the operator’s location information with CO 811.

      (4)   An operator’s registration with the Commission grants the Director
            permission to access information the operator submits to CO 811 about its
            oil and gas facilities.

1102.o.     Requirements for shut-in or out of service off-location flowline or
      crude oil transfer line for inspection.

      (1)   For an active status off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line that has
            been shut-in, meaning that the line contains fluids associated with oil and
            gas operations, but is not flowing fluids, for more than 90 days, the
            operator must:

            A.     Apply a tag out device to each riser associated with the line;

            B.     Continue to comply with the integrity management requirements of
                   Rule 1104;

            C.     Pressure test the off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line in
                   accordance with Rule 1104.h. before returning the line to operation;
                   and

            D.     Not less than 48 hours prior to pressure testing, submit notice with
                   a Field Operations Notice, Form 42 – Notice of Return to Service,
                   to the Director of the scheduled date for the pressure test to allow
                   the Commission to inspect during the pressure test.

      (2)   For an off-location flowline or a crude oil transfer line that has been out of
            service for more than 90 days, the operator must:

            A.     Within 120 days of applying OOSLAT, submit a Flowline Report,
                   Form 44, to the Director identifying the off-location flowline or crude
                   oil transfer line or segment thereof that has been taken out of
                   service and the outcome of the most recent integrity management
                   test.

            B.     Pressure test the off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line in
                   accordance with Rule 1104.h. before returning the line to active
                   status; and

            C.     Not less than 48 hours prior to pressure testing, submit notice with
                   a Field Operations Notice, Form 42 – Notice of Return to Service,
                   to the Director of the scheduled date for the pressure test to allow
                   the Commission to inspect during the pressure test.




                                                                                           490
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1103. FLOWLINE AND CRUDE OIL TRANSFER LINE VALVES

1103.a.       Isolation valve repair and maintenance.

       (1)    Operators must annually conduct one of the following maintenance
              operations on all isolation valves:

              A.     Perform a function test; or

              B.     Maintain the isolation valve in accordance with its manufacturer’s
                     specifications.

       (2)    Operators must repair or replace isolation valves that are not fully
              operable.

       (3)    On-location manifold, peripheral and process piping flowlines are exempt
              from the annual maintenance operations set forth in this section Rule
              1103.a.(1).

1103.b.      Any valve, flange, fitting or other component that is connected to a flowline
      or crude oil transfer line must have a manufacturer’s specification rating that is
      equal to or greater than the maximum anticipated operating pressure.

1103.c.      For all flowlines or crude oil transfer lines constructed after May 1, 2018,
      an isolation valve must be installed at each of the following locations before
      being placed into active status:

       (1)    On the suction end and the discharge end of a pump station in a manner
              that permits isolation of the pump station equipment in the event of an
              emergency;

       (2)    On each flowline or crude oil transfer line entering or leaving a breakout
              tank in a manner that permits isolation of the breakout tank from other
              facilities;

       (3)    At locations along a flowline or crude oil transfer line that will minimize
              damage or pollution from accidental discharge of hydrocarbons or E&P
              Waste, as appropriate for the terrain in open country or for populated
              areas;

       (4)    On each side of a flowline or crude oil transfer line crossing a Rule 317B
              Public Water System defined water supply or a waterbody that is more
              than 100 feet (30 meters) wide from high-water mark to high-water mark;
              and

       (5)    On each side of a flowline or crude oil transfer line crossing a reservoir
              storing water for human consumption.




                                                                                           491
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1103.d.      Flowlines and crude oil transfer lines constructed before May 1, 2018,
      must be retrofitted with isolation valves at each of the locations identified in Rule
      1103.c.(1)-(5) by October 31, 2019. On-location manifold, peripheral and process
      piping flowlines are exempt from the retrofit provisions set forth in this section
      1103.d.

1103.e.       Check Valve Installation Requirements.

       (1)    Where an operator produces two or more wells through a common
              flowline, separator, or manifold, the operator must equip each flowline
              leading from a well to the common flowline, crude oil transfer line,
              separator, or manifold with a check valve or other comparable reverse
              flow prevention mechanism.

       (2)    The check valve or other comparable reverse flow prevention mechanism
              must be installed to permit fluids to move from the well to the common
              flowline, crude oil transfer line, separator, or manifold and to prevent any
              fluid from entering the well through the flowline.

       (3)    The operator must keep all check valves or other comparable reverse flow
              mechanisms in good working order.

       (4)    Upon the Director’s request, operators must test the operation of the
              check valve or other comparable reverse flow mechanism.

       (5)    The requirements set forth in subsection (1) and (2) above, apply only to
              those check valves or comparable reverse flow mechanisms installed after
              May 1, 2018. Existing check valves or comparable reverse flow
              mechanisms must comply with subsection (3) and (4) above.

1104. INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT

1104.a.       Initial Pressure Testing Requirements.

       (1)    Within 90 days prior to placing any newly installed segment of flowline or
              crude oil transfer line into active status, an operator must test the line to at
              least maximum anticipated operating pressure and demonstrate integrity.

       (2)    If an operator successfully completes an initial pressure test for an off-
              location flowline or crude oil transfer line, but does not place the line into
              active status within 90 days, the line may remain in pre-commissioned
              status and will not require an additional initial pressure test if:

              A.     The operator applied best practices to protect the line’s integrity for
                     the time between completing the successful initial pressure test and
                     placing the line into active status; and




                                                                                          492
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             B.     The operator submits a Field Operations Notice, Form 42 – Notice
                    of Return to Service, to the Director of the scheduled date for
                    placing the line into active status not less than 48 hours prior to
                    placing the line into service.

      (3)    In conducting tests, each operator must ensure that reasonable
             precautions are taken to protect its employees and the general public.

      (4)    The operator may use a hydrostatic test or conduct the test using inert gas
             or wellhead pressure sources and well bore fluids, including gas, in
             accordance with one of the applicable standards set forth in Rule
             1104.h.(1) below.

1104.b.      Testing upon request. An operator will conduct an integrity test of any
      segment of flowline or crude oil transfer line at any time upon request of the
      Director.

1104.c.     Integrity Management for Active Status Below-ground Dump Lines.
      An operator must verify integrity of below-ground dump lines by performing an
      annual static-head test and a monthly audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) detection
      survey of the entire line.

1104.d.      Integrity Management for Active Status Above-ground On-location
      Flowlines. An operator must verify the integrity of above-ground on-location
      flowlines by performing a monthly audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) detection survey
      of the entire flowline.

1104.e.     Integrity Management for Active Status Below-Ground On-location
      Flowlines.

      (1)    For any below-ground on-location flowlines not subject to Rule 1104.c. or
             d., above, an operator must adhere to one of the following integrity
             management programs:

             A.     A pressure test to maximum anticipated operating pressure every
                    three years;

             B.     Smart pigging conducted every three years;

             C.     Continuous pressure monitoring; or

             D.     Annual instrument monitoring conducted pursuant to Rule
                    1104.j.(2).

      (2)    If an operator elects to use smart pigging to comply with this section, the
             smart pig must be able to measure flowline wall thickness, and measure
             for flowline defects that could affect integrity, including measurement of
             metal loss. If no Geographic Information System (GIS) data of the flowline



                                                                                      493
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            exists, the smart pig will have GPS capabilities to the extent such
            capabilities do not materially compromise the ability of the smart pig to
            conduct the integrity testing required by this section.

1104.f.     Integrity Management for Active Status Off-Location Flowlines and
       Crude Oil Transfer Lines.

      (1)   For active status off-location flowlines and crude oil transfer lines, but not
            including off-location produced water flowlines, operators must adhere to
            one of the following integrity management programs:

            A.     An annual pressure test to maximum anticipated operating
                   pressure;

            B.     Continuous pressure monitoring;

            C.     Smart pigging conducted every three years; or

            D.     Annual instrument monitoring conducted pursuant to Rule
                   1104.j.(2).

      (2)   For active status off-location below-ground produced water flowlines,
            operators must adhere to one of the following integrity management
            programs:

            A.     An annual pressure test to maximum anticipated operating
                   pressure;

            B.     Continuous pressure monitoring; or

            C.     Smart pigging conducted every three years.

      (3)   For active status above-ground off-location produced water flowlines,
            operators may use any of the options listed in Rule 1104.f.(2), or monthly
            AVO inspections.

      (4)   If an operator elects to use smart pigging to comply with this section, the
            smart pig must be able to measure flowline wall thickness, and measure
            for flowline defects that could affect integrity, including measurement of
            metal loss. If no geodatabase file of the flowline exists, the smart pig will
            have GPS capabilities to the extent such capabilities do not materially
            compromise the ability of the smart pig to conduct the integrity testing
            required by this section.

1104.g.     Leak protection, detection, and monitoring.

      (1)   All crude oil transfer line operators must prepare and file with the Director
            a leak protection and monitoring plan with their registration.




                                                                                        494
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (2)   All crude oil transfer line operators must develop and maintain a plan to
            coordinate the assessment of all inflow and outflow data. The plan must
            provide for the assessment of inflow and outflow data between the
            production facility operator, the crude oil transfer line operator, and the
            operator at the point or points of disposal, storage, or sale. Upon
            discovery of a material data discrepancy, the discovering party is to notify
            all other appropriate parties and take action to determine the cause. The
            crude oil transfer line operator is to retain a record of all material data
            discrepancies.

1104.h.     Pressure Test Requirements.

      (1)   Initial Pressure Test.

            A.     Before putting an off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line into
                   active status, the successful initial pressure test must be conducted
                   for a minimum of four hours or in compliance with the
                   manufacturer’s specifications and in accordance with one of the
                   following applicable standards.

                   i.     American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Process
                          Piping, 2016 Edition (ASME 31.3-2016) and no later edition;

                   ii.    ASME Pipeline Transportation Systems for Liquids and
                          Slurries, 2016 Edition (ASME B31.4-2016) and no later
                          edition;

                   iii.   ASME Gas Transmission and Distribution Piping Systems,
                          2016 Edition (ASME B31.8-2016) and no later edition;

                   iv.    API Specification 15S, Spoolable Reinforced Plastic Line
                          Pipe, Second Edition, March 2016 (API Specification 15S)
                          and no later edition;

                   v.     API RP 15TL4 (R2018) Recommended Practice for Care
                          and Use of Fiberglass Tubulars, Second Edition, March
                          1999, together with API Specification 15HR, High-pressure
                          Fiberglass Line Pipe, Fourth Edition, February 2016 (API
                          Specification 15HR), and no later editions;

                   vi.    API RP 1110, Recommended Practice for the Pressure
                          Testing of Steel Pipelines for the Transportation of Gas,
                          Petroleum Gas, Hazardous Liquids, Highly Volatile Liquids
                          or Carbon Dioxide (6th Ed., February 1, 2013) (API RP
                          1110) and no later edition; or

                   vii.   ASTM F2164-13, Standard Practice for Field Leak Testing of
                          Polyethylene (PE) and Crosslinked Polyethylene (PEX)



                                                                                      495
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        Pressure Piping Systems Using Hydrostatic Pressure, and
                        no later edition, or manufacturer’s specifications and must
                        test the line to at least maximum anticipated operating
                        pressure.

           B.    The ASME, API and ASTM standards identified in A. above are
                 available for public inspection during normal business hours from
                 the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
                 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203.
                 Additionally, the standards may be examined at any state
                 publications depository library. The ASME standards are available
                 to purchase from the ASME at Two Park Avenue, New York, NY
                 10016-5990, 1-800-843-2763. The API standard is available to
                 purchase from the API at 1220 L Street, NW Washington, DC
                 20005-4070, 1-202-682-8000. The ASTM standard is available to
                 purchase from the ASTM at ASTM International, West
                 Conshohocken, PA, 19428-2959, 1-877-909-2786.

           C.    Before putting an on-location flowline into active status, the initial
                 pressure test must be conducted in compliance with the
                 manufacturer’s specifications or in accordance with one of the
                 applicable standards identified in Rule 1104.h.(1)A.

           D.    The initial pressure test can be hydrostatic or the test fluid can be
                 the produced fluids of oil, condensate, produced water, or natural
                 gas or inert gas in accordance with the applicable sections of the
                 above-mentioned standards.

           E.    A successful initial pressure test must demonstrate that the flowline
                 or crude oil transfer line does not leak.

     (2)   Annual and Triennial Pressure Testing Requirements. For annual or
           triennial pressure tests conducted to meet the requirements of Rules
           1104.e and 1104.f:

           A.    A pressure test must test to at least the maximum operating
                 pressure and run for at least 30 minutes once the fluid pressure has
                 stabilized.

           B.    The test can be hydrostatic or the test fluid can be the produced
                 fluids of oil, produced water or natural gas.

           C.    A successful test will demonstrate the flowline or crude oil transfer
                 line does not leak, that pressure loss does not exceed 10%, and
                 the fluid pressure is stable for the last five minutes of the pressure
                 test.




                                                                                      496
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1104.i.       Continuous Pressure Monitoring Requirements. An operator’s
       continuous pressure monitoring program must meet API RP 1175 “Pipeline Leak
       Detection Program Management” (2017), and no later editions of the standard,
       and ensure:

      (1)   Pressure data are monitored continuously, i.e., 24 hours per day and 7
            days a week, and the monitoring is sufficiently sophisticated to identify
            flowline or crude oil transfer line integrity or pressure anomalies;

      (2)   Systems are capable of being shut-in for repairs immediately upon
            discovery of a suspected leak, either through automation or a
            documented, manual process;

      (3)   The operator documents the continuous monitoring program, including
            suspected or identified integrity failures and how the operator will maintain
            and repair flowlines or crude oil transfer lines; and

      (4)   The API RP 1175 is available for public inspection during normal business
            hours from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
            1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203. In addition, API
            RP 1175 may be examined at any state publications depository library and
            is available from API at 1220 L Street NW, Washington, DO 20005-4070,
            1-202-682-8000.

1104.j.     Audio, Visual and Olfactory (AVO) Detection Survey or Alternative
       Survey Requirements.

      (1)   When performing an AVO detection survey, an operator must survey the
            entire flowline length using audio, visual and olfactory techniques to detect
            integrity failures, leaks, spills, or releases, or signs of a leak, spill, or
            release like stressed vegetation or soil discoloration.

      (2)   Instrument Monitoring Method (IMM). Where the regulations permit, an
            operator also may conduct a survey using an instrument monitoring
            method capable of detecting integrity failures, leaks, spills or releases, or
            signs of a leak, spill or release.

      (3)   For either survey method, an operator must document the date and time
            of the survey, the detection methodology and technology, if any, used and
            the name of the employee who conducted the survey.

1104.k.     Integrity Failure Investigation.

      (1)   If the integrity management program indicates that a flowline or crude oil
            transfer line has or has had an integrity failure, the operator must
            investigate the cause of the failure, investigate whether the failure resulted
            in a spill or release of liquids, produced water, or gas, and repair any
            failure as required by Rule 1102.j.



                                                                                        497
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

       (2)    If the failure resulted in a spill or release of liquids, produced water or gas,
              the operator must comply with the 900 Series Rules.

1105. ABANDONMENT

1105.a.      A flowline or crude oil transfer line remains subject to all of the
      requirements in Rules 1101 through 1104 until the operator completes all
      abandonment requirements set forth below.

1105.b.     Upon removing a flowline or crude oil transfer line from use with the intent
      to abandon, an operator must immediately apply OOSLAT to the risers. OOSLAT
      must stay in place at all times during the process of abandoning the flowline or
      crude oil transfer line until the operator removes the riser.

1105.c.       Isolation. When abandoning a flowline or crude oil transfer line, operators
      must permanently remove a flowline or crude oil transfer line from operation by
      physically separating it from all sources of fluids or pressure within the time frame
      set forth in Section 1004.a.

1105.d. Pre-abandonment notice requirements for flowline or crude oil transfer
      line for inspection. Operators must remove the flowline or crude oil transfer line
      and its risers, the riser associated with cathodic protection, and above-ground
      equipment, except where abandonment in place is less impactful as articulated in
      subparts (2) and (3).

       (1)    For on-location flowlines, the operator must submit notice to the Director
              of the scheduled date for commencing abandonment with a Field
              Operations Notice, Form 42 – Abandonment of Flowlines no less than 30
              days before the operator will commence abandonment.

       (2)    If the off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line will be removed or
              abandoned in place pursuant to one of the following exceptions, the
              operator must submit notice to the Director of the scheduled date for
              commencing abandonment that includes appropriate documentation. The
              operator must submit the notice and appropriate documentation no less
              than 30 days before the operator will commence abandonment. The
              Director may review the notice, if necessary, to determine whether the
              proposed abandonment process is less impactful to public health, safety,
              welfare, the environment and wildlife resources. The Director’s
              determination, if any, must be completed within 30 days of receiving the
              notice. Abandonment in place is allowed pursuant to the process in this
              section if:

              A.     A surface owner agreement executed by a surface owner allows
                     abandonment in place;

              B.     The line is subject to the jurisdiction of the federal government, and
                     the relevant federal agency directs abandonment in place;



                                                                                          498
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             C.    The flowline or crude oil transfer line is co-located with other active
                   pipelines or utilities or is in a recorded right of way;

             D.    Removal of the flowline or crude oil transfer line would cause
                   significant damage to natural resources, including wildlife
                   resources, topsoil, or vegetation;

             E.    The flowline or crude oil transfer line is in a restricted surface
                   occupancy area or sensitive wildlife habitat;

             F.    The flowline or crude oil transfer line or a segment of the line
                   crosses or is within 30 feet of a public road, railroad, bike path,
                   public right of way, utility corridor, or active utility or pipeline
                   crossing;

             G.    The flowline or crude oil transfer line or a segment of the line
                   crosses or is within 30 feet of or under a river, stream, lake, pond,
                   reservoir, wetlands, watercourse, waterway, or spring; or

             H.    The operator demonstrates and quantifies that the removal of the
                   flowline or crude oil transfer line will cause significant emissions of
                   air pollutants.

      (3)    An operator may request abandonment in place for off-location flowlines
             or crude oil transfer lines for reasons other than those articulated in
             section (2). The operator must request abandonment in place by
             submitting to the Director a Flowline Report, Form 44, no less than 30
             days before the operator plans to commence abandonment. The Flowline
             Report must include documentation demonstrating that abandonment in
             place, considering any mitigation measures or best management
             practices, will be less impactful to public health, safety, welfare, the
             environment, and wildlife resources than removal. The Director may not
             approve the request for abandonment in place for the line or a portion
             thereof unless the Director finds that abandonment in place causes less
             impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
             resources than removal.

      (4)    Unless waived, the operator must provide notice to the surface owner and
             the relevant local government simultaneously with submitting notice to the
             Director pursuant to this Rule 1105.d. The local government or surface
             owner must provide their comments to the Director within 15 days of
             receipt, regarding the proposed abandonment’s impacts to public health,
             safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

1105.e.      Abandonment in place requirements. For a flowline or crude oil transfer
      line abandoned in place, the operator must:




                                                                                          499
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (1).   Evacuate the flowline or crude oil transfer line of any hydrocarbons or
             produced water to ensure the line is safe and inert;

      (2).   Deplete the flowline or crude oil transfer line to atmospheric pressure;

      (3).   Cut the flowline’s or crude oil transfer line’s risers to three (3) feet below
             grade or to the depth of the flowline or crude oil transfer line, whichever is
             shallower;

      (4).   Seal the ends of the flowline or crude oil transfer line below grade;

      (5).   Remove above-ground cathodic protection and equipment associated with
             the riser; and

      (6).   Include pressure test results conducted in the prior 12 months as well as
             identification of any document numbers for a COGCC Spill/Release
             Report, Form 19, associated with the abandoned line with the Flowline
             Report, Form 44, submitted pursuant to Rule 1105.f.(2); and

      (7).   For an off-location flowline or crude oil transfer line abandoned in place
             pursuant to Rule 1105.d.(2), the operator must submit documentation
             supporting the applicable reason for abandonment in place with the
             Flowline Report, Form 44, submitted pursuant to Rule 1105.f.(2).

1105.f.      Abandonment Verification. Within 90 days of an operator completing
       abandonment requirements for a flowline or crude oil transfer line, an operator
       must submit:

      (1)    A Field Operations Notice, Form 42 – Abandonment of Flowlines, to the
             Director for an on-location flowline. If the operator conducted a pressure
             test as part of the abandonment, a copy of the pressure test shall be
             submitted with the Report of Abandonment, Form 6 – Subsequent.

      (2)    A Flowline Report, Form 44, to the Director for an off-location flowline or
             crude oil transfer line, which must include:

             A.     Geographic Information System (GIS) data that includes line
                    alignment, if such GIS data has not been submitted to the
                    Commission for the line;

             B.     An account of the manner in which the abandonment work was
                    performed;

             C.     Copies of any pressure test results run as part of the abandonment
                    shall be submitted with the Form 44 for off-location flowlines and
                    crude oil transfer lines; and




                                                                                        500
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             D.     If the line was abandoned in place, verification performed by a third
                    party who:

                    i.     Observed that the abandonment requirements of Rule
                           1105.e.(1)-(4) were met; and

                    ii.    Is a Professional Engineer registered with the State of
                           Colorado, working under the supervision of a Professional
                           Engineer registered with the State of Colorado, or has
                           specific training and experience abandoning lines in
                           accordance with the requirements of Rule 1105.

1105.g.      The Director will provide a Field Operations Notice, Form 42 –
      Abandonment of Flowlines, for an on-location flowline abandonment or a
      Flowline Report, Form 44, filed pursuant to Rule 1105.f. for an off-location
      flowline or crude oil transfer line abandonment to the appropriate Local
      Governmental Designee and CO 811.




                                                                                     501
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


1200 SERIES       PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES

1201. WILDLIFE PLANS

a.   Wildlife Protection Plan. Proposed Oil and Gas Operations on new or amended
     Oil and Gas Locations requiring a new Form 2A, Oil and Gas Location
     Assessment outside of High Priority Habitat require a Wildlife Protection Plan that
     includes a description of the Rule 1202.a operating requirements applicable to
     the Oil and Gas Location. Wildlife Protection Plans may address multiple Oil and
     Gas Locations if supplemental site-specific information is provided as needed to
     meet Rule 1202.a operating requirements at each Oil and Gas Location. Wildlife
     Protection Plans do not require Colorado Parks and Wildlife (“CPW”) consultation
     or approval.

b.   Wildlife Mitigation Plan. Proposed Oil and Gas Operations on new or amended
     Oil and Gas Locations within High Priority Habitat require a Wildlife Mitigation
     Plan that includes a description of the Rule 1202.a operating requirements, and
     the additional operating and mitigation requirements in Rules 1201.b.(1)–(4),
     1202, & 1203. Wildlife Mitigation Plans may address one or multiple Oil and Gas
     Locations. Pre-existing CPW-approved Wildlife Mitigation Plans in effect on
     January 15, 2021 may meet these requirements subject to written concurrence
     from CPW that the Wildlife Mitigation Plan satisfies the requirements of this Rule
     1201.b. The Wildlife Mitigation Plan will include the following:

     (1)   A description of any pre-application consultation with CPW, which may
           include an alternative location analysis pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2).B.viii, or
           identifying site-specific measures to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse
           Impacts to Wildlife Resources;

     (2)   A description of Best Management Practices incorporated into the
           proposed Oil and Gas Operations that the Operator commits to
           implementing for the purposes of minimizing impacts to wildlife;

     (3)   A description of the Rule 1202.b operating requirements applicable to the
           Oil and Gas Location; and

     (4)   A description of the Rule 1203 mitigation commitments to offset
           Unavoidable Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources.

1202. OPERATING REQUIREMENTS

a.   The operating requirements identified in this Rule 1202.a apply to Oil and Gas
     Operations statewide unless the Operator obtains a signed waiver from CPW
     and the Director or Commission approves a Form 4, Sundry Notice or Form 2A
     documenting the relief.




                                                                                     502
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   In black bear habitat, Operators will install and utilize bear-proof
           dumpsters and trash receptacles for food-related trash at all facilities that
           generate trash.

     (2)   Operators will disinfect water suction hoses and water transportation
           Tanks withdrawing from or discharging into surface waters (other than
           contained Pits) used previously in another river, intermittent or perennial
           stream, lake, pond, or wetland and discard rinse water in an approved
           disposal facility. Disinfection practices will be repeated prior to completing
           work and before moving to the next water body. Disinfection will be
           performed by scrubbing and pre-rinsing equipment away from water
           bodies to remove all mud, plants, and organic materials and then by
           implementing one of the following practices:

           A.     Spray/soak equipment with a CPW-approved disinfectant solution
                  capable of killing whirling disease spores and other aquatic
                  nuisance species defined by CPW; or

           B.     Spray/soak equipment with water greater than 140° Fahrenheit for
                  at least 10 minutes. All equipment and any compartments they
                  contain will be completely drained and dried between each use.

     (3)   At new and existing Oil and Gas Locations, Operators will not situate new
           staging, refueling, or Chemical storage areas within 500 feet of the
           Ordinary High Water Mark (“OHWM”) of any river, perennial or intermittent
           stream, lake, pond, or wetland.

     (4)   To prevent access by wildlife, including birds and bats, Operators will
           fence and net or install other CPW-approved exclusion devices on new
           Drilling Pits, Production Pits, and other Pits associated with Oil and Gas
           Operations that are intended to contain Fluids.

           A.     Such fencing and netting or other CPW-approved exclusion device
                  will be installed within 5 days after the cessation of active drilling
                  and completion activities and maintained until the Pit is removed
                  from service and dried or closed pursuant to the Commission’s 900
                  Series Rules.

           B.     The Director may require an operator to fence and net or install
                  other CPW-approved exclusion devices on an existing Pit if the
                  Director determines that the installation is necessary and
                  reasonable to protect Wildlife Resources based on the analysis
                  required by Rule 909.j, or other information that demonstrates
                  additional protections for Wildlife Resources are appropriate.

           C.     Operators will properly maintain and repair all fences, nets, and
                  CPW-approved exclusion devices required by this Rule 1202.a.(4).




                                                                                      503
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (5)    For trenches that are left open for more than 5 consecutive days during
            construction of Pipelines regulated pursuant to the Commission’s 1100
            Series Rules, Operators will install wildlife escape ramps at a minimum of
            one ramp per 1/4 mile of trench.

     (6)    When conducting interim and final Reclamation pursuant to Rules 1003
            and 1004, Operators will use CPW-recommended seed mixes for
            Reclamation when consistent with the Surface Owner’s approval and any
            local soil conservation district requirements.

     (7)    Operators will use CPW-recommended fence designs when consistent
            with the Surface Owner’s approval and any Relevant Local Government
            requirements.

     (8)    Operators will conduct all vegetation removal necessary for Oil and Gas
            Operations outside of the nesting season for migratory birds (April 1 to
            August 31). For any vegetation removal that must be scheduled between
            April 1 to August 31, Operators may implement appropriate hazing or
            other exclusion measures prior to April 1 to avoid take of migratory birds. If
            hazing or other exclusion measures are not implemented, Operators will
            conduct pre-construction nesting migratory bird surveys within the
            approved disturbance area prior to any vegetation removal during the
            nesting season. If active nests are located, Operators will provide work
            zone buffers around active nests.

     (9)    Operators will treat Drilling Pits, Production Pits, and any other Pit
            associated with Oil and Gas Operations containing water that provides a
            medium for breeding mosquitoes with Bti (Bacillus thuringiensis v.
            israelensis) or take other effective action to control mosquito larvae that
            may spread West Nile virus to Wildlife Resources. Such treatment will be
            conducted in a manner which will not adversely affect aquatic Wildlife
            Resources.

     (10)   Operators will employ the following minimum Best Management Practices
            on new Oil and Gas Locations with a Working Pad Surface located
            between 500 feet and 1000 feet hydraulically upgradient from a High
            Priority Habitat identified in Rule 1202.c.(1).Q–S:

            A.     Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in Tanks that are placed
                   on a Working Pad Surface in an area with downgradient perimeter
                   berming;

            B.     Construct lined berms or other lined containment devices pursuant
                   to Rule 603.o around any new crude oil, condensate, and produced
                   water storage Tanks that are installed after January 15, 2021;




                                                                                      504
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            C.     Inspect the Oil and Location on a daily basis, unless the approved
                   Form 2A provides for different inspection frequency or alternative
                   method of compliance;

            D.     Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at the Oil and Gas
                   Location during drilling and completion operations; and

            E.     Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that Operators may
                   continue to utilize existing Pits that were properly permitted,
                   constructed, operated, and maintained in compliance prior to
                   January 15, 2021.

b.   Operators will bore, rather than trench, Flowline and utility crossings of perennial
     streams identified as aquatic High Priority Habitat unless the Operator obtains a
     signed waiver from CPW and the Director or Commission approves a Form 4 or
     Form 2A documenting the relief. When installing culverts or bridges, such
     structures will not impact or prevent the passage of fish unless otherwise directed
     by CPW.

c.   Except as specified pursuant to Rule 1202.c.(2), Operators will not conduct any
     new ground disturbance and Well work, including access road and pad
     construction, drilling and completion activities, and Flowline/utility corridor
     clearing and installation activities in the High Priority Habitats listed in Rule
     1202.c.(1).

     (1)    High Priority Habitats subject to this Rule 1202.c include:

            A.     Columbian sharp-tailed grouse (within 0.6 miles of the lek site);

            B.     Greater prairie chicken (within 0.6 miles of the lek site);

            C.     Greater sage-grouse (within 1.0 miles of the lek site);

            D.     Gunnison sage-grouse (within 1.0 miles of the lek site);

            E.     Lesser prairie chicken (within 1.25 miles of the lek site);

            F.     Plains sharp-tailed grouse (within 0.4 miles of the lek site);

            G.     Bald eagle (within 0.25 miles of an active nest);

            H.     Ferruginous hawk (within 0.5 miles of an active nest);

            I.     Golden eagle (within 0.25 miles of an active nest);

            J.     Northern goshawk (within 0.5 miles of an active nest);

            K.     Peregrine falcon (within 0.5 miles of an active nest);




                                                                                       505
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           L.    Prairie falcon (within 0.5 miles of an active nest);

           M.    Least tern production area;

           N.    Piping plover production area;

           O.    Townsend’s big-eared bat, Mexican free-tailed bat, and myotis
                 (within 350 feet of winter hibernacula);

           P.    Bighorn sheep production area;

           Q.    Waters identified by CPW as “Gold Medal” (within 500 feet of
                 OHWM);

           R.    Cutthroat trout designated crucial habitat and native fish and other
                 native aquatic species conservation waters (within 500 feet of
                 OHWM);

           S.    Sportfish management waters not identified by CPW as “Gold
                 Medal” (within 500 feet of OHWM); and

           T.    CPW-owned State Wildlife Areas and State Parks.

     (2)   This Rule 1202.c does not apply to:

           A.    Production operations at existing Oil and Gas Locations, including:

                 i.     Routine maintenance, repairs, and replacements of
                        Production Facilities that do not require a drilling or workover
                        rig;

                 ii.    Emergency operations;

                 iii.   Spill and Release response;

                 iv.    Ongoing Reclamation and site maintenance activities;

                 v.     Habitat improvements that have been approved by CPW or
                        the Commission to Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife
                        Resources at existing facilities; or

                 vi.    Commission- or Director-requested work.

           B.    Non-emergency workovers, including uphole recompletions,
                 plugging operations, and site investigation and Remediation at
                 existing Oil and Gas Locations, if:

                 i.     The Operator has obtained prior approval from the Director;




                                                                                    506
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                   ii.    The Operator has consulted with CPW; and

                   iii.   The Operator Minimizes Adverse Impacts to the species for
                          which the High Priority Habitat exists.

            C.     Access road construction and Flowline/utility corridor clearing and
                   installation activities within the High Priority Habitat identified in
                   Rules 1202.c.(1).Q–S in association with an approved Form 2A
                   may be allowed subject to Best Management Practices or other
                   avoidance measures agreed to in consultation with CPW.

d.   All Oil and Gas Development Plans submitted after January 15, 2021, including
     amendments to previously-approved Form 2As, that cause the density of Oil and
     Gas Locations to exceed 1 per square mile in the High Priority Habitats listed in
     Rule 1202.d require a CPW-approved Wildlife Mitigation Plan pursuant to Rule
     1201.b or other CPW-approved conservation plan and compensatory mitigation
     for Wildlife Resources pursuant to Rule 1203. This Rule 1202.d applies to the
     following High Priority Habitat types:

     (1)    Bighorn sheep migration corridors and winter range;

     (2)    Elk migration corridors, production areas, severe winter range, and winter
            concentration areas;

     (3)    Mule deer migration corridors, severe winter range, and winter
            concentration areas;

     (4)    Pronghorn migration corridors and winter concentration areas;

     (5)    Greater sage-grouse priority habitat management areas;

     (6)    Columbian sharp-tailed grouse production areas;

     (7)    Greater prairie chicken production areas;

     (8)    Gunnison sage-grouse occupied habitat and production areas;

     (9)    Lesser prairie chicken focal areas; and

     (10)   Plains sharp-tailed grouse production areas.

1203. COMPENSATORY MITIGATION FOR WILDLIFE RESOURCES

a.   In High Priority Habitats listed in Rule 1202.d, the Operator will complete
     compensatory mitigation to Mitigate direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect
     Impacts pursuant to Rules 1203.b–d. Direct impacts to wildlife are unavoidable
     and occur from direct mortality or displacement during construction activities and
     habitat conversion to industrial facilities. Indirect impacts to wildlife occur over




                                                                                       507
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     time from the cumulative functional habitat loss from fragmentation and modified
     habitat use as development density increases. Indirect Impacts may be Avoided
     or Minimized through the application of alternative siting and Rule 1202 operating
     requirements. The Director, after consultation with CPW, will have discretion to
     determine whether compensatory mitigation proposed by the Operator is
     sufficient to protect wildlife from direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts.
     An Operator may fulfill the obligation to complete compensatory mitigation by:

     (1)    Completing or causing to be completed a project approved by CPW and
            the Director as described in a Compensatory Mitigation Plan pursuant to
            Rule 1203.b; or

     (2)    Paying a habitat mitigation fee to CPW, as provided by Rules 1203.c &
            1203.d. Any fee pursuant to Rules 1203.c & 1203.d will be calculated to
            reimburse all reasonable and necessary direct and indirect costs that will
            be incurred by CPW in completing compensatory mitigation sufficient to
            offset the direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts to Wildlife
            Resources caused by the proposed Oil and Gas Operations.

     (3)    The Director may grant an exception from the compensatory mitigation
            requirement set forth in this Rule 1203 after consulting with CPW pursuant
            to Rule 309.e.

b.   If an Operator chooses to complete or cause to be completed compensatory
     mitigation to Mitigate the direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts to
     Wildlife Resources:

     (1)    The Operator will submit a Compensatory Mitigation Plan to the Director
            with a level of detail commensurate with the scale, scope, intensity, and
            duration of the impacts to Wildlife Resources that includes, as appropriate:

            A.     Plan objectives or mitigation goal, including a description of how the
                   plan will address equivalence, timeliness, duration, durability, and
                   additionality;

            B.     Coordination and concurrence with CPW;

            C.     Site selection;

            D.     Site protection instrument;

            E.     Baseline information on Wildlife Resources;

            F.     Mitigation schedule and workplan;

            G.     Maintenance plan;

            H.     Performance standards;



                                                                                     508
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            I.      Monitoring and reporting requirements;

            J.      Long-term management plan;

            K.      Adaptive management plan, if necessary;

            L.      Financial Assurances; and

            M.      Other information as required by the Director.

      (2)   The Director will consult with CPW about the adequacy of the proposed
            Compensatory Mitigation Plan.

      (3)   The Director may accept the Operator’s Compensatory Mitigation Plan if it
            meets the criteria of Rule 1203.b.(1) and, in the Director’s judgment,
            based on the consultation described in Rule 1203.b.(2), provides
            adequate compensation for direct and Unavoidable Adverse indirect
            Impacts to Wildlife Resources from the proposed Oil and Gas Operations.

c.    Direct Impact Habitat Mitigation Fee. An Operator may fulfill its obligation to
      Mitigate direct Adverse Impacts to wildlife caused by new ground disturbance
      within High Priority Habitat types listed in Rule 1202.d by paying to CPW a
      habitat mitigation fee in the amount listed in Table 1203-1 no less than 30 days
      prior submitting a Form 42, Field Operations Notice – Notice of Construction or
      Major Change pursuant to Rule 405.b. The direct impact habitat mitigation fee is
      subject to update on a periodic but no more frequent than annual basis and will
      be modified only through the Commission’s rulemaking process described in
      Rule 529. Notice of such rulemaking proceeding will be provided by January 15
      of each year.

Table 1203-1 – Direct Impact Habitat Mitigation Fee


     Total Disturbance Acres                             Fee

            1.0–10.99                                  $13,750

                                    Determined based on site-specific conditions
                 11.0+
                                            and consultation with CPW

d.    Indirect Impacts.

      (1)   In High Priority Habitats listed in Rule 1202.d with a density of Oil and Gas
            Locations less than 5 per square mile, CPW will recommend to the
            Director whether compensatory mitigation is required to address the
            Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts of habitat fragmentation caused by
            the proposed Oil and Gas Development Plan.




                                                                                     509
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   When determining whether to recommend that compensatory mitigation
           be required for Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts on Wildlife
           Resources, factors that CPW may consider include, but are not limited to:

           A.    The existing landscape context, and extent to which the proposed
                 Oil and Gas Operations are within land already used for residential,
                 industrial, commercial, agricultural, or other purposes, and the
                 existing wildlife disturbance associated with such land uses;

           B.    The estimated lifespan of the proposed Oil and Gas Operations;

           C.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations
                 incorporate alternative siting of Oil and Gas Facilities or Oil and
                 Gas Locations to Avoid and Minimize Adverse Impacts;

           D.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations
                 incorporate the use of existing Oil and Gas Facilities, Oil and Gas
                 Locations, roads, or Pipeline corridors to limit new surface
                 disturbance and habitat fragmentation;

           E.    The extent to which the proposed Oil and Gas Operations use
                 technology and practices which protect Wildlife Resources,
                 including but not limited to:

                 i.     Seasonal construction and drilling limitations;

                 ii.    Noise limitations;

                 iii.   Remote operations; or

                 iv.    Measures to reduce traffic volumes, including but not limited
                        to transport of liquids through the use of Pipelines and
                        storage in large Tanks.

     (3)   If the Director determines that compensatory mitigation for Unavoidable
           Adverse indirect Impacts to Wildlife Resources is necessary, the Operator
           may fulfill its obligation to Mitigate the indirect Adverse Impacts of its
           proposed Oil and Gas Operations by either:

           A.    Completing or causing to be completed a project approved by CPW
                 and the Director pursuant to Rule 1203.b; or

           B.    Paying an additional habitat mitigation fee to CPW.

     (4)   The Director will determine the amount of the fee for each proposed Oil
           and Gas Location based on CPW’s estimate of costs to reimburse all
           reasonable and necessary expenditures to complete compensatory




                                                                                       510
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          mitigation sufficient to offset the Unavoidable Adverse indirect Impacts to
          Wildlife Resources from the proposed disturbance.




                                                                                   511
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


1300 Series – Deep Geothermal Operations

1301. GENERAL PROVISIONS

a.   Deep Geothermal Operators are subject to the provisions of Rules 201-204,
     205.a.-c. (1), 205.c.(4), 206.a, 206.b.(1)-(2), 206.b.(5)-(6), 206.c-f, 207, 208,
     209.a-b, 210-213, 216, 218, and 221-223.

b.   As to Rule 211 applications by Relevant Local Governments and Surface
     Owners, those provisions of Rule 1320.c. will apply.

c.   The provisions for Rule 215 apply to Local Governments in the context of Deep
     Geothermal Operations.

d.   Except for the requirement for consultation with tribal governments set forth in
     Rule 1304.k., these 1300 Series Rules do not apply to:

     (1)    Indian Lands; or

     (2)    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe or any tribally controlled entities conducting
            Deep Geothermal Operations on lands within the exterior boundaries of
            the Southern Ute Indian Reservation.

e.   Nothing in this 1300 Series is intended to establish the jurisdiction of either the
     Commission or the Southern Ute Indian Tribe over nontributary groundwater
     within the boundaries of the Southern Ute Indian Reservation as confirmed in
     Public Law No. 98-290, § 3.98 Stat. 201 (1984).

1302. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL, CHANGES TO OPERATIONS,
AND FILING FEES FOR DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS

a.   Approval. All Deep Geothermal Operations governed by any regulation in this
     Series require written approval of the Director or Commission. The Director or
     Commission will approve Deep Geothermal Operations only if they protect and
     minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and
     wildlife resources, and avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse impacts to
     Disproportionately Impacted Communities. Deep Geothermal Operators will
     obtain the approval of the Director or Commission through the procedures set
     forth in the Commission Rules. The Director or Commission may require any
     conditions of approval that are determined to be necessary and reasonable to
     protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
     environment, and wildlife resources, or avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse
     impacts to Disproportionately Impacted Communities. When providing a
     Director’s Recommendation for permit applications pursuant to this 1300 Series,
     the Director may add conditions of approval that are necessary and reasonable
     to protect public health, safety, and welfare, including the protection of the
     environment and wildlife resources.



                                                                                         512
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Denial. The Director or Commission may deny a permit application for Deep
     Geothermal Operations if it does not comply with the Commission’s Rules or the
     Geothermal Act.

c.   Changes to Approved Permits for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (1)    Operators will file any proposed change to an approved permit for Deep
            Geothermal Operations with the Director in writing through a Form 4,
            Sundry Notice. The Director will review and approve or deny the proposed
            change, unless the Director determines that the proposed change is
            significant and requires Commission approval.

            A.     When submitting a Form 4 pursuant to this Rule 1302.c.(1)
                   proposing changes to a Deep Geothermal Location, the Operator
                   will provide notice and a copy of the Form 4 to the Relevant and
                   Proximate Local Government within two business days of
                   submitting the Form 4 to the Commission.

     (2)    The Operator will not begin work until the Director or Commission provides
            written approval.

     (3)    The Director or Commission will only approve changes that comply with
            the Geothermal Act and the Commission’s Rules.

d.   Filing Fees. Operators will pay filing fees at the time of applying for a permit for
     Deep Geothermal Operations, a Form 2G, Location Assessment; a Form 2,
     Application for Permit-to-Drill; or a Geothermal Resource Unit (see Appendix III).
     Geothermal Science Wells will be exempt from paying the filing fee. When an
     Operator applies to Convert a Location or Wellbore, all fees applicable to a
     permit for Deep Geothermal Operations will be assessed when the Operator files
     the application.

e.   The Director or Commission may request any information necessary and
     reasonable to make a final determination of approval or denial on any permit
     application before the Commission. In such information requests, the Director or
     Commission will provide the reason(s) for the request and a reasonable
     timeframe for the applicant to provide the information.

f.   Coordination with Local Governments and Federal Agencies.

     (1)    Purpose. The Commission, Local Governments, and federal surface
            management agencies each have authority to require permits for the
            surface impacts of Deep Geothermal Operations. Recognizing that each
            permitting authority brings its own, unique expertise in reviewing a permit,
            the Commission supports creating coordinated, efficient processes among
            the permitting authorities.




                                                                                     513
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Concurrent Permitting. Where possible, the Commission prefers
           Operators to follow the concurrent permit review process described in
           Rule 303.a.(6). A. to allow each permitting authority to coordinate sharing
           its unique expertise and standards.

     (3)   Sequential Permitting. An Operator may pursue a permit from the federal
           government or a Relevant Local Government before or after applying for a
           permit for Deep Geothermal Operations pursuant to Rule 303.a.(6). B.

1303. LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

a.   Nothing in the Commission’s Rules constrains the legal authority conferred to
     Local Governments by §§ 24-65.1-101 et seq., 29-20-104, 30-15-401, 37-90.5-
     106(2)(b)(I), C.R.S., or any other statute, to regulate surface Deep Geothermal
     Operations in a manner that is more protective or stricter than the Commission’s
     Rules.

b.   Local Government Siting Information. With their permit application for Deep
     Geothermal Operations or Geothermal Resource Unit, Operators will submit to
     the Director certification that:

     (1)   The Relevant Local Government does not regulate the siting of Deep
           Geothermal Locations;

     (2)   The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Deep Geothermal
           Locations, and has denied the siting of the proposed Deep Geothermal
           Location;

     (3)   The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Deep Geothermal
           Locations, and has approved the siting of the proposed Deep Geothermal
           Location; or

     (4)   The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of Deep Geothermal
           Locations, but has not made a decision on the siting of the proposed Deep
           Geothermal Location.

c.   Director’s Review of Local Government Siting Information.

     (1)   For proposed Deep Geothermal Locations listed in Rule 1303.b.(1) and
           (4), the Director will conduct a siting review pursuant to the Commission’s
           1300 Series Rules.

     (2)   For proposed Deep Geothermal Locations listed in Rule 1303.b.(2),
           ECMC will not approve the proposed Deep Geothermal Location without a
           hearing before the Commission, and the applicant will file an application
           for hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10).




                                                                                   514
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      (3)    For proposed Deep Geothermal Locations listed in Rule 1303.b.(3), the
             Director will consider the Relevant Local Government’s siting disposition,
             but still require a Form 2G to assess the proposed Deep Geothermal
             Location pursuant to these Rules.

d.    With their permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations, Operators will
      state whether the proposed Deep Geothermal Location is subject to the
      requirements of § 24-65.1-108, C.R.S., because it is located in an area
      designated as one of state interest.

e.    Local Government Waiving Authority.

      (1)    At any time, a Local Government may, by providing written notice to the
             Director on a Form 29, Local Government Information, and any relevant
             Operators:

             A.     Waive its right to receive notice under any or all of the
                    Commission’s Rules; or

             B.     Certify that it chooses not to regulate the siting of Deep Geothermal
                    Locations.

      (2)    The Commission will maintain a list of Local Governments that have
             certified to the Director that they have chosen not to regulate the siting of
             Deep Geothermal Locations, or receive any category of notice otherwise
             required by the Commission’s Rules. This list will be posted on the
             Commission’s website.

      (3)    A Local Government may withdraw a waiver or certification at any time by
             providing written notice to an Operator and the Director on a Form 29.
             Upon receiving such notice, the Director will immediately remove the Local
             Government from the Rule 1303.e.(2) list on the Commission’s website.

f.    Local Government Consultation. Prior to filing its permit application for Deep
      Geothermal Operations, the Deep Geothermal Operator will request a pre-
      application consultation between the Commission’s planning and permitting staff
      and the Relevant and Proximate Local Government. The Director or Operator will
      promptly schedule a Formal Consultation Process meeting. Nothing in this Rule
      1303.f precludes a Relevant or Proximate Local Government from providing
      comments on a permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations during the
      Rule 1305.d.(1) public comment period. Topics for Formal Consultation Process
      meeting will include, but not be limited to:

      (1)    The location of access roads, Production Facilities, and Wells;

(2)   Necessary and reasonable measures to avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse
      impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife resources;




                                                                                       515
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

(3)   Necessary and reasonable measures to avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse
      impacts to Disproportionately Impacted Communities, and;

(4)   Any discussions the Relevant or Proximate Local Government had with its
      residents and any Conditions of Approval requested by the Local Government.

1304. CONSULTATION

a.    Prior to filing its permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations, the Deep
      Geothermal Operator will request a pre-application consultation between the
      Commission’s planning and permitting staff, those people or entities required to
      be consulted pursuant to Rules 1303 and 1304, and the Deep Geothermal
      Operator to discuss the siting, scope, and timing of the proposed Deep
      Geothermal Operations in addition to those topics specifically addressed in Rule
      1304.b.- l.

b.    Surface Owners. The Operator and Director will consult in good faith with the
      Surface Owner or the Surface Owner’s appointed agent about the location of all
      surface disturbances, and in preparation for Reclamation and abandonment. The
      Surface Owner or appointed agent may submit relevant comments to the Director
      about any permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.

      (1)   Information Provided by Operator. When consulting with the Surface
            Owner or appointed agent, the Operator will furnish, in writing:

            A.     All the information required for a complete permit application for
                   Deep Geothermal Operations;

            B.     The expected date of commencement of operations;

            C.     Topsoil management practices to be employed; and

            D.     The location of associated roads, Production Facilities,
                   infrastructure, and any other areas to be used for Deep Geothermal
                   Operations.

      (2)   Waiver. The Surface Owner or the Surface Owner’s appointed agent may
            waive, permanently or otherwise, their right to consult with the Operator at
            any time. Such waiver will be in writing and signed by the Surface Owner.

c.    Building Unit Owners and Tenants. An Operator and Director will be available
      to meet for a Formal Consultation Process with residents (including owners and
      tenants) of Building Units located within 2,000 feet of the proposed Deep
      Geothermal Location. Building Unit Owners, their agents, their tenants, or a
      Relevant or Proximate Local Government may request such a meeting.




                                                                                        516
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Information Provided by Operator. When meeting with Building Unit
           owners or their appointed agent(s) or tenants, the Operator will provide
           the following information:

           A.    The date construction is anticipated to begin;

           B.    The anticipated duration of pad construction, drilling, and
                 completion activities;

           C.    The types of equipment anticipated to be present on the proposed
                 Deep Geothermal Location;

           D.    The Operator’s interim and final Reclamation obligation;

           E.    A description and diagram of the proposed Deep Geothermal
                 Location that includes the dimensions of the proposed Deep
                 Geothermal Location and the anticipated layout of production or
                 injection facilities, Pipelines, roads, and any other areas to be used
                 for Deep Geothermal Operations;

           F.    Information relevant to potential health, safety, welfare, and
                 environmental impacts associated with Deep Geothermal
                 Operations, including but not limited to security, noise, light, odors,
                 dust, and traffic; and

           G.    Information about proposed Best Management Practices or
                 mitigation measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate those impacts.

     (2)   Waiver. The Building Unit owner, agent, or tenant may waive,
           permanently or otherwise, their respective right to receive notice pursuant
           to the Commission’s Rules. Any such waiver will be in writing, signed by
           the owner, their agent, or tenant.

     (3)   The Operator and the Director will consider all concerns related to public
           health, safety, and welfare, including protection of the environment and
           wildlife resources, raised by Building Unit owners, their agents, or tenants
           during the Formal Consultation Process, including concerns raised during
           informational meetings or in written comments. The Operator will provide a
           written response to all such concerns to the Director as an attachment to
           the Form 2G prior to the Director or Commission making a decision on the
           application pursuant to Rule 1305.

     (4)   All information provided pursuant to this Rule 1304.c will also be provided
           in all languages spoken by 5% or more of the population in the census
           block group(s) within 2,000 feet of each proposed Deep Geothermal
           Location.

d.   Schools, Child Care Centers, and School Governing Bodies.



                                                                                     517
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   The Operator will provide a pre-application notice of intent to conduct
           Deep Geothermal Operations to any relevant School, Child Care Center,
           and School Governing Body within 2,000 feet as measured from the Deep
           Geothermal Location to:

           A.     The property line of a parcel currently owned by the School, Child
                  Care Center, or School Governing Body as identified through
                  county assessor records;

           B.     The property line of a parcel considered a Future School Facility as
                  identified on the final approved plat that may be obtained from the
                  planning department of the Local Government; or

           C.     What reasonably appears to be a School Facility (regardless of
                  property ownership) based on the Operator’s review of current
                  aerial maps that show surface development or surveys of the area.

     (2)   The Notice will include:

           A.     The Operator’s contact information;

           B.     The location and general description of the proposed Deep
                  Geothermal Location, including the cultural distances table as
                  required under Rule 1305.b.(3). B., and drawings, maps, and
                  figures required under Rule 1305.b.(3).C. - O.

           C.     Contact information of Relevant Local Government;

           D.     Contact information of state agencies entitled to pre-application
                  consultation pursuant to this Rule 1304, including any community
                  liaisons or community engagement specialists affiliated with such
                  agencies or ECMC;

           E.     The anticipated date that construction will begin and the expected
                  schedule of drilling and completion activities;

           F.     A description of the status of the Relevant Local Government’s
                  siting disposition, if applicable;

           G.     Notice that the School Governing Body for the School Facility or
                  Child Care Center may request a consultation to discuss the
                  proposed operations by contacting the Operator, and that the
                  Director may be invited to any meeting; and

           H.     Notice that the School, Child Care Center, or School Governing
                  Body may submit comments regarding the proposed Deep
                  Geothermal Location to the Commission as part of the Rule
                  1305.d.(1) public comment period.



                                                                                     518
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

e.   Colorado Parks and Wildlife.

     (1)   The Purpose of Consultation. The purpose of consultation with CPW is
           to provide the Director the information necessary to determine whether an
           application protects Wildlife Resources and whether conditions of approval
           are necessary to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife
           Resources associated with High Priority Habitats, and protect against
           adverse impacts to Wildlife Resources resulting from Deep Geothermal
           Operations. Factors that CPW may take into consideration during
           consultation include, but are not limited to, the following:

           A.    Anticipated adverse impacts of the proposed Deep Geothermal
                 Operations on Wildlife Resources;

           B.    The extent to which the proposed siting of facilities Avoids or
                 Minimizes Adverse Impacts;

           C.    The extent to which the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations
                 incorporate the use of existing facilities, roads, and Pipeline
                 corridors and limit new surface disturbance and habitat
                 fragmentation;

           D.    The extent to which the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations
                 use technology and Best Management Practices which are
                 protective of Wildlife Resources, including but not limited to
                 seasonal construction and drilling limitations, noise limitations,
                 remote operations, equipment disinfection, and transporting and
                 storing liquids through Pipelines and large Tanks or other measures
                 to reduce traffic volumes;

           E.    The extent to which the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations are
                 within land used or designated to be used for residential, industrial,
                 commercial, agricultural, or other purposes, and the existing wildlife
                 disturbance associated with such use; and

           F.    The extent to which the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations
                 occur on federal or private lands for which the use and access of
                 the lands in question may already be incorporated into a federal
                 planning document, or the private Surface Owner designates the
                 use of the land based on the function and utility of multiple use
                 designations.

     (2)   When Consultation Must Occur. The Operator will consult with CPW
           about a permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations or other
           matter where:




                                                                                   519
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.    A proposed Deep Geothermal Location or associated new access
                 road, utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within High Priority Habitat, a
                 State Park, or a State Wildlife Area;

           B.    A proposed Deep Geothermal Location or associated new access
                 road, utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within federally designated
                 critical habitat or an area with a known occurrence for a federal or
                 Colorado threatened or endangered species;

           C.    A proposed Deep Geothermal Location or associated new access
                 road, utility, or Pipeline corridor falls within an existing conservation
                 easement established wholly or partly for wildlife habitat;

           D.    CPW requests consultation or because consultation is necessary to
                 Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate reasonably foreseeable Adverse
                 Impacts to Wildlife Resources from a proposed Deep Geothermal
                 Location or other matter where consultation is not otherwise
                 required;

           E.    The Operator seeks a variance pursuant to Rule 502 from a
                 provision in the Commission’s 1200 Series Rules, or from wildlife-
                 specific conditions of approval or Best Management Practices
                 approved on a Form 2G; or

           F.    The Director determines that consultation would assist the Director
                 in determining whether to recommend approving or denying a
                 permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.

           G.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement to consult with
                 CPW may be waived by CPW at any time. Any waiver will be based
                 on a written finding by CPW that consultation is not necessary to
                 protect Wildlife Resources from quantifiable adverse impacts from
                 Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (3)   When Consultation is Not Required. Consultation will not be required if:

           A.    The Director has previously approved a Form 2G and associated
                 Wildlife Protection Plan or Wildlife Mitigation Plan that addresses
                 the proposed Deep Geothermal Location, the proposed operations
                 are in compliance with previously approved plans, and the
                 associated High Priority Habitat maps under which the Director
                 previously approved the Wildlife Protection Plan or Wildlife
                 Mitigation Plan have not changed.

           B.    CPW has previously approved, in writing, a Wildlife Protection Plan,
                 Wildlife Mitigation Plan, or other conservation plan that remains in
                 effect for the area that includes the proposed Deep Geothermal
                 Operations, the Deep Geothermal Location is in compliance with



                                                                                        520
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 such plan, and the associated High Priority Habitat maps under
                 which CPW previously approved the Wildlife Protection Plan,
                 Wildlife Mitigation Plan, or other conservation plan have not
                 changed.

           C.    The Operator demonstrates and CPW agrees in writing that:

                 i.     The identified habitat and species triggering the consultation
                        is no longer present and unlikely to return to the area; or

                 ii.    The proposed Deep Geothermal Location is within an area
                        either primarily or completely developed for residential,
                        agricultural, commercial, or industrial use that makes the
                        area incompatible with wildlife habitat.

           D.    The proposed new Deep Geothermal Location would involve a one-
                 time increase in surface disturbance of 1 acre or less contiguous
                 with an existing Deep Geothermal Location with a Wildlife
                 Mitigation Plan or other conservation plan that remains in effect for
                 the area.

           E.    A Commission Order limits the density of Deep Geothermal
                 Locations within a Geothermal Resource Unit to 1 per section, and
                 the Order includes a Wildlife Mitigation Plan or other conservation
                 plan that remains in effect for the area.

     (4)   Procedures for Consultation.

           A.    The Operator will provide:

                 i.     The permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations, if
                        applicable, or for consultations that do not involve a permit
                        application for Deep Geothermal Operations, a description of
                        the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations, including their
                        location, and the phasing and duration of operations; and

                 ii.    Any other relevant available information about the proposed
                        Deep Geothermal Operations and the affected Wildlife
                        Resources, including the wildlife habitat drawing pursuant to
                        Rule 1305.b.(3). H. and information required by Rule 1201.

           B.    If the Operator has made no reasonable accommodation for
                 consultation, the Director will have discretion to postpone making a
                 decision about a permit application for Deep Geothermal
                 Operations to allow consultation to occur if the Director believes the
                 information from consultation is necessary to determine how to
                 protect and Avoid, Mitigate, and Minimize Adverse Impacts to
                 Wildlife Resources.



                                                                                   521
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.    The Surface Owner may waive their right to participate in the
                 consultation and is not obligated to provide access to its surface for
                 such consultation. If access to the surface is not granted, the
                 Operator will arrange a consultation meeting with CPW at a
                 mutually agreeable time and location and the consultation will be
                 based on best available data.

     (5)   Result of Consultation.

           A.    As a result of consultation required by this Rule 1304.e., CPW may
                 make written recommendations to the Director about how to protect
                 Wildlife Resources and conditions of approval that are necessary
                 and reasonable to Avoid, Minimize, or Mitigate direct, indirect, and
                 cumulative Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources from Deep
                 Geothermal Operations pursuant to Rules 1202 & 1203.

           B.    CPW may also recommend, in writing, that the Commission deny a
                 permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations, Wildlife
                 Protection Plan, Wildlife Mitigation Plan, or Compensatory
                 Mitigation Plan due to reasonably foreseeable risks or Adverse
                 Impacts to Wildlife Resources that cannot be Avoided, Minimized,
                 or Mitigated to the extent necessary to protect these resources from
                 Deep Geothermal Operations.

           C.    Except for Rule 1202.c, CPW may waive, in writing, any operating
                 or mitigation requirements otherwise required by Rules 1202 or
                 1203 based on CPW’s analysis of potential Unavoidable Adverse
                 Impacts.

           D.    For Rule 1202.c:

                 i.     CPW may waive the application of and the Director may
                        grant an exception to Rule 1202.c.(1). R for any new ground
                        disturbance that meets the criteria of Rule 1202.c between
                        300 feet and 500 feet from the Ordinary High Water Mark
                        (“OHWM”) of cutthroat trout designated crucial habitat, and
                        native fish and other native aquatic species conservation
                        waters, if the Operator adheres to the following Best
                        Management Practices:

                        aa.    Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in Tanks
                               that are placed on a Deep Geothermal Location in an
                               area with downgradient perimeter berming;

                        bb.    Construct lined berms or other lined containment
                               devices pursuant to Rule 603.o. around any new
                               crude oil, condensate, and produced water storage
                               Tanks that are installed after January 15, 2021;



                                                                                   522
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                      cc.   Inspect the Deep Geothermal Location on a daily
                            basis, unless the approved Form 2G provides for
                            different inspection frequency or alternative method of
                            compliance;

                      dd.   Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at the
                            Deep Geothermal Location during drilling and
                            completion operations; and

                      ee.   Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that Operators
                            may continue to utilize existing Pits that were properly
                            permitted, constructed, operated, and maintained in
                            compliance prior to January 15, 2021.

                ii.   CPW may waive the application of and the Director may
                      grant an exception to Rule 1202.c.(1). S:

                      aa.   For perennial streams, if the Operator adheres to the
                            following Best Management Practices for any new
                            ground disturbance that meets the criteria of Rule
                            1202.c between 300 feet and 500 feet from the
                            OHWM of sportfish management waters:

                            1.     Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in
                                   Tanks that are placed on a Deep Geothermal
                                   Location in an area with downgradient
                                   perimeter berming;

                            2.     Construct lined berms or other lined
                                   containment devices pursuant to Rule 603.o.
                                   around any new crude oil, condensate, and
                                   produced water storage Tanks that are
                                   installed after January 15, 2021;

                            3.     Inspect the Deep Geothermal Location on a
                                   daily basis, unless the approved Form 2G
                                   provides for different inspection frequency or
                                   alternative method of compliance;

                            4.     Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at
                                   the Deep Geothermal Location during drilling
                                   and completion operations; and

                            5.     Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that
                                   Operators may continue to utilize existing Pits
                                   that were properly permitted, constructed,
                                   operated, and maintained in compliance prior
                                   to January 15, 2021.



                                                                                523
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                       bb.    For ephemeral and intermittent streams, if the
                              Operator adheres to the following Best Management
                              Practices:

                              1.     Contain Flowback and Stimulation Fluids in
                                     Tanks that are placed on a Deep Geothermal
                                     Location in an area with downgradient
                                     perimeter berming;

                              2.     Construct lined berms or other lined
                                     containment devices pursuant to Rule 603.o
                                     around any new crude oil, condensate, and
                                     produced water storage Tanks that are
                                     installed after January 15, 2021;

                              3.     Inspect the Deep Geothermal Location on a
                                     daily basis, unless the approved Form 2G
                                     provides for different inspection frequency or
                                     alternative method of compliance;

                              4.     Maintain adequate Spill response equipment at
                                     the Deep Geothermal Location during drilling
                                     and completion operations; and

                              5.     Not construct or utilize any Pits, except that
                                     Operators may continue to utilize existing Pits
                                     that were properly permitted, constructed,
                                     operated, and maintained in compliance prior
                                     to January 15, 2021.

                       iii.   CPW may waive the application of Rule 1202.c.(1). T.

           E.    Where applicable, CPW may also make written recommendations
                 on whether a variance request pursuant to Rule 502 should be
                 granted, under what conditions, and the reasons for any such
                 recommendations, including requests for variances from Rule
                 1202.c.(1). Q–S. The Commission will consider the written
                 recommendations of CPW and the relevant federal land
                 management agency, if applicable, including recommended or final
                 federal stipulations and conditions of approval.

     (6)   Conditions of Approval.

           A.    If the Director agrees that the conditions of approval or denial as
                 recommended by CPW are necessary and reasonable to Avoid,
                 Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources, the
                 Director will incorporate CPW’s recommended conditions into the
                 Director’s approval on approved Form 2G.



                                                                                  524
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The Director will not incorporate conditions of approval to Avoid,
                 Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources into
                 the Director’s approval without consent of the affected Surface
                 Owner, unless the Director finds such conditions of approval
                 reasonably necessary to effectuate the Commission’s mission. This
                 provision does not apply to conditions of approval to Avoid,
                 Minimize, or Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources that do
                 not directly impact the affected Surface Owner’s property or use of
                 that property including, but not limited to, off-site compensatory
                 mitigation requirements.

           C.    If the Director determines that any conditions of approval or denial
                 as recommended by CPW are not necessary to Avoid, Minimize, or
                 Mitigate Adverse Impacts to Wildlife Resources, the permit
                 application for Deep Geothermal Operations will be subject to
                 Commission review pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10).

           D.    The Commission will determine whether to follow CPW’s
                 recommendation when making a final decision to approve or deny a
                 permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (7)   Notification of Decision to Consulting Agency. Where consultation
           occurs, the Director will provide the Director’s approval or denial to CPW
           on the same day that the Director or Commission issues such approval or
           denial.

f.   Consultation with CDPHE.

     (1)   When Consultation Will Occur.

           A.    The Operator and Director will consult with CDPHE if:

                 i.     A Relevant or Proximate Local Government requests the
                        participation of CDPHE in the Director’s consideration of a
                        permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations based
                        on concerns regarding public health, safety, welfare, or
                        impacts to the environment; or

                 ii.    An Operator requests a variance from the Commission
                        pursuant to Rule 502 from a provision of Rules 1305, 408.e,
                        411, 426, 427, 615, 801, 802, 803.g, 803.h, 806.c, or the
                        Commission’s 900 Series Rules as part of a permit
                        application for Deep Geothermal Operations or UIC Aquifer
                        exemption application.

           B.    The Director may request consultation about any permit application
                 for Deep Geothermal Operations if the Director reasonably believes
                 that consultation with the CDPHE would assist the Director in



                                                                                  525
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 understanding the potential risks to public health, safety, and
                 welfare, including protection of the environment and wildlife
                 resources.

           C.    The Director will consult with CDPHE if CDPHE requests
                 consultation.

           D.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement to consult with
                 CDPHE may be waived by CDPHE at any time.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation.

           A.    The consultation required by this Rule 1304.f will focus on
                 identifying potential impacts to public health, safety, welfare, or the
                 environment from activities associated with the permit application
                 for Deep Geothermal Operations, and development of conditions of
                 approval or other measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate those
                 potential adverse impacts.

           B.    The consultation process may include, but is not limited to:

                 i.     Review of the relevant permit application for Deep
                        Geothermal Operations, variance request, Well-density
                        application, or draft Commission regulation;

                 ii.    Discussions with the Relevant Local Government(s) and
                        Proximate Local Government(s) to better understand the
                        Local Governments’ concerns;

                 iii.   Discussions with the Commission, Operator, Surface Owner,
                        Surface Owner’s tenant, emergency responders, School
                        officials, hospital administrators, Public Water System
                        administrators, or any other potentially Affected Person; and

                 iv.    Review of public comments.

     (3)   Results of Consultation.

           A.    As a result of consultation called for by this Rule 1304.f, CDPHE
                 may make written recommendations to the Director about
                 conditions of approval to ensure compliance with these Rules and
                 as may be necessary and reasonable to protect public health,
                 safety, welfare, or the environment. Such recommendations may
                 include, but are not limited to, monitoring requirements or Best
                 Management Practices. CDPHE may also recommend that the
                 Director or Commission deny a permit application for Deep
                 Geothermal Operations if necessary and reasonable to protect
                 public health, safety, and welfare, including protection of the



                                                                                    526
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                 environment. Where applicable, CDPHE may also make written
                 recommendations about whether a variance request should be
                 granted or denied and the reasons for any such recommendations.

           B.    Standards for Consultation and Director Decision. If the
                 Director agrees that the conditions of approval recommended by
                 CDPHE are necessary and reasonable to ensure compliance with
                 these Rules and to protect public health, safety, and welfare,
                 including protection of the environment and wildlife resources, the
                 Director will incorporate CDPHE’s recommended conditions into
                 approvals of a permit for Deep Geothermal Operations. If the
                 Director determines that any conditions of approval recommended
                 by CDPHE are not necessary and reasonable to protect public
                 health, safety, and welfare, including protection of the environment,
                 the permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations will be
                 subject to Commission review pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10).

           C.    Notification of Decision to Consulting Agency. Where
                 consultation occurs, the Director will provide the Director’s approval
                 or denial to CDPHE on the same day that it announces the
                 decision.

g.   Public Water Systems.

     (1)   The Operator and Director will engage in a Formal Consultation Process
           with all Public Water Systems that receive notice pursuant to Rule
           303.e.(1).H, unless the Public Water System waives its right to
           consultation.

     (2)   Groundwater Monitoring. Among other topics, consultations pursuant to
           Rule 1304.g will address whether groundwater monitoring should occur
           pursuant to Rule 411.b.(4). B.

h.   State Land Board.

     (1)   When Consultation Will Occur.

           A.    The Operator and Director will consult with SLB if a permit
                 application for Deep Geothermal Operations will impact any surface
                 estate, mineral estate, geothermal resources, pore space, or water
                 rights owned or managed by SLB.

           B.    The Director may request consultation about any permit application
                 for Deep Geothermal Operations if the Director reasonably believes
                 that consultation with SLB would assist the director in
                 understanding the potential impact to any surface estate, mineral
                 estate, geothermal resources, pore space, or water rights owned or
                 managed by SLB.



                                                                                   527
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.    The Operator and Director will consult with SLB if SLB requests a
                 consultation regarding impacts to SLB property interests.

           D.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement to consult with SLB
                 may be waived by SLB at any time.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation. The consultation required by this Rule
           1304.h. will focus on whether any real property interest owned or
           managed by SLB will be impacted by the permit application for Deep
           Geothermal Operations, and whether SLB has granted to the Operator the
           necessary permissions to impact such real property interests.

     (3)   Results of Consultation. As a result of consultation called for by this
           Rule 1304.h. SLB may make written statements on whether SLB granted
           to the Operator the necessary permissions to utilize any real property
           interest owned or managed by SLB and which will be impacted by the
           permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.

i.   Division of Water Resources.

     (1)   When Consultation Will Occur. The Operator and Director will consult
           with DWR on all permit applications for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation. The consultation required by this Rule
           1304.i. will focus on:

           A.    DWR’s determination, if any, on whether the Geothermal Resource
                 to be developed is an Allocated Geothermal Resource;

           B.    Whether the Deep Geothermal Operator’s proposed Deep
                 Geothermal Operations require a water use permit from DWR; and

           C.    Any conditions of approval DWR requests for the permit application
                 for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (3)   Results of Consultation. As a result of consultation called for by this
           Rule 1304.i. DWR may:

           A.    Inform ECMC on whether DWR made a determination pursuant to
                 Rule 1304.i.(2). A. and/or provide written comments on the
                 determination;

           B.    Inform ECMC on whether the Deep Geothermal Operator has
                 obtained the necessary water use permit(s), if required, and provide
                 written comments regarding the water use permit(s); and




                                                                                     528
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.    Provide written, proposed conditions of approval for the permit
                 application for Deep Geothermal Operations necessary to
                 effectuate DWR’s mission.

j.   Environmental Protection Agency.

     (1)   Criteria for Consultation.

           A.    The Operator and Director will consult with EPA for any permit
                 application for Deep Geothermal Operations which may result in
                 any injection activities regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act.

           B.    The Director will consult with EPA for any permit application for
                 Deep Geothermal Operations which may require an aquifer
                 exemption from EPA for Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

           C.    The Director will consult with EPA if EPA requests consultation.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation.

           A.    The consultation period with EPA may last as long as necessary for
                 EPA to determine whether to issue the necessary authorization to
                 inject pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act.

           B.    The consultation required by this Rule 1304.j. will focus on whether
                 the Operator has obtained the necessary authorization to inject
                 pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act from EPA, and whether the
                 Operator has obtained the necessary aquifer exemption from EPA
                 for Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

     (3)   Results of Consultation. Neither the Director nor the Commission will
           approve a permit for Deep Geothermal Operations which includes a
           Geothermal Injection Well without written verification from EPA that the
           Operator has obtained the necessary authorizations pursuant to the Safe
           Drinking Water Act required for the proposed Deep Geothermal
           Operations, and that the Operator must obtain any necessary aquifer
           exemptions for Underground Sources of Drinking Water, where required.

k.   Tribal Governments.

     (1)   Criteria for Consultation. As to permit applications for Deep Geothermal
           Operations subject to Commission regulatory and permitting authority
           pursuant to Rule 201.d.(2), the Operator and Director will consult with the
           Southern Ute Indian Tribe for any permit application in which the applicant
           contemplates locating a Deep Geothermal Location within the exterior
           boundaries of the Southern Ute Indian Reservation. The Operator and
           Director will consult with the Southern Ute Indian Tribe and/or Ute
           Mountain Ute Tribe for any permit application for Deep Geothermal



                                                                                    529
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Operations which either tribe finds may impact tribal minerals and/or
           Geothermal Resources, or may adversely affect other tribal resources.

     (2)   Procedure for Consultation.

           A.    The consultation period with the Southern Ute Indian Tribe and/or
                 the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe is as long as necessary for the tribes to
                 determine whether the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations will
                 impact tribal minerals and/or Geothermal Resources, or may
                 adversely affect other tribal resources.

           B.    The consultation required by this Rule 1304.k. will focus on whether
                 the Operator’s proposed Deep Geothermal Operations will
                 potentially impact tribal minerals and/or Geothermal Resources, or
                 may adversely affect other tribal resources.

     (3)   Results of Consultation.

           A.    Neither the Director nor the Commission will approve a permit for
                 Deep Geothermal Operations which will impact tribal minerals
                 and/or Geothermal Resources without express approval of the
                 relevant tribal government which controls the minerals and/or
                 geothermal resources at issue.

           B.    As to permit applications for Deep Geothermal Operations subject
                 to Commission regulatory and permitting authority pursuant to Rule
                 201.d.(2), the relevant tribal government may request any
                 conditions of approval to the permit for Deep Geothermal
                 Operations necessary to protect tribal sovereignty, public health,
                 safety, and welfare, including protection of the environment and
                 wildlife resources.

l.   Bureau of Land Management.

     (1)   Criteria for Consultation. As to permit applications for Deep Geothermal
           Operations which contemplate locating a Deep Geothermal Location on
           lands where any federal entity controls or manages the surface estate or
           which contemplate exploring for and producing federal Geothermal
           Resources, the Operator and Director and applicant will consult with the
           Bureau of Land Management.

     (2)   Results of Consultation.

           A.    Neither the Director nor the Commission will approve a permit for
                 Deep Geothermal Operations which will permit a Deep Geothermal
                 Location on federal lands, or which will explore for and produce
                 federal Geothermal Resources without approval of the relevant
                 federal entity.



                                                                                   530
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     The relevant federal entity may request conditions of approval to
                  the permit for Deep Geothermal Operations.

1305. PERMITTING OF DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS

a.   General Provisions. Prior to commencing Deep Geothermal Operations or
     drilling a Geothermal Science Well, a Deep Geothermal Operator will obtain the
     Director’s or Commission’s approval of a permit for Deep Geothermal
     Operations.

b.   Permit for Deep Geothermal Operations. A permit application for Deep
     Geothermal Operations will include with the following:

     (1)   For at least one portion of a geothermal tract within the proposed area,
           documentation showing the applicant’s status as an Owner within the
           area. Acceptable forms of documentation include, but are not limited to:

           A.     Geothermal and/or nontributary water deed or memorandum;

           B.     Geothermal and/or nontributary water lease or memorandum; or

           C.     Any other agreement confirming the applicant’s right to drill into and
                  produce a Geothermal Resource, or a memorandum of such
                  agreement.

     (2)   Form 2 Required. The Operator will submit a Form 2, Application and
           Permit to Drill, for the proposed Deep Geothermal Well(s). The Form 2 will
           include the following requirements, including those described in the Rules
           incorporated below by reference:

           A.     Rule 308.b.(1) - Distances to nearest building, Building Unit, public
                  road, above ground utility, railroad, and property line;

           B.     A wellbore diagram;

           C.     Details of the proposed work;

           D.     Rule 308.b.(4) - Well location plat;

           E.     Rule 308.b.(5) - Deviated drilling plan;

           F.     Rule 308.b.(6) - Casing and cementing plan;

           G.     Rule 308.b.(7) - Statewide offset well evaluation; and

           H.     Rule 308.b.(8) - Hydraulic fracturing treatment at depths 2,000 feet
                  or less.




                                                                                    531
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           I.    A Form 2 for a Geothermal Injection Well will include those
                 information requirements found at Rules 803.g.(5), (6), (9), & (10).

           J.    With their Form 2, Operators will state whether the proposed Well is
                 subject to the requirements of § 24-65.1-108, C.R.S., because it is
                 located in an area designated as one of state interest.

           K.    A Form 2 to Convert an existing Well will include a demonstration of
                 appropriate logging and/or mechanical testing as approved by the
                 Director, pursuant to Rule 1311.f.(2).

     (3)   Form 2G Required. The Operator will submit a Form 2G for the proposed
           Deep Geothermal Location(s). The Form 2G will include the following
           requirements, including those described in the Rules incorporated below
           by reference:

           A.    Rule 1303.b. - Local Government siting information;

           B.    Rule 304.b.(3) - Cultural Distances;

           C.    Rule 304.b.(4) - Location pictures;

           D.    Rule 304.b.(5) - Site equipment list;

           E.    Rule 304.b.(6) - Geothermal Flowline and Off-Location Flowline
                 Descriptions;

           F.    Rule 304.b.(7). A - Location drawings;

           G.    Rule 304.b.(7). B - Layout drawings, as they pertain to the
                 proposed Deep Geothermal Location(s), except those describing
                 Well completion and stimulation, hydraulic fracturing, or Flowback;

           H.    Rule 304.b.(7).C - Wildlife habitat drawing;

           I.    Rule 304.b.(7). D. - Preliminary process flow diagrams;

           J.    Rule 304.b.(7). E - Hydrology map;

           K.    Rule 304.b.(7). F - Access Road map;

           L.    Rule 304.b.(7). G - Related location and flowline map;

           M.     Rule 304.b.(7).H - Directional Well plat, if one or more Deep
                 Geothermal Well(s) proposed for the Location are directional rather
                 than vertical;

           N.    Rule 304.b.(7). I - Geologic Hazard map;




                                                                                  532
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          O.    Rule 304.b.(7). J - Disproportionately Impacted Community map;

                i.    If the proposed Deep Geothermal Location is within 2,000
                      feet of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building
                      Unit, or School Facility located within a Disproportionately
                      Impacted Community, the applicant will:

                      aa.    Comply with Rule 304.c.(20). B. and C. by providing a
                             community outreach plan;

                      bb.    In developing the community outreach plan required
                             by this Rule 1305.b.(3). O., the applicant will consult
                             with the Commission’s community liaison to identify
                             local community organizations representative of the
                             potentially impacted communities. If the community
                             liaison identifies such local community organizations,
                             the applicant will coordinate with such organization(s)
                             to distribute necessary and relevant notice and
                             information to the community;

                      cc.    Deep Geothermal Operators are encouraged to
                             develop and disseminate educational materials on
                             geothermal technology and project-specific
                             information as part of its community outreach; and

                      dd.    Include a proposed plan for how the Deep
                             Geothermal Operator will avoid, minimize, or mitigate
                             adverse impacts of drilling and production operations
                             upon the Disproportionately Impacted Community;

          P.    Rule 304.b.(8) - Geographic information system (“GIS”) data;

          Q.    Rule 304.b.(9) - Land use description;

          R.    Rule 304.b.(10) - NRCS map unit description;

          S.    Rule 304.b.(11) - Best Management Practices;

          T.    Rule 304.b.(12) - Surface Owner information;

          U.    Rule 304.b.(13) - Proximate Local Government information;

          V.    Rule 304.b.(14) - Wetlands;

          W.    Rule 304.b.(15) - Schools and Child Care Centers;




                                                                                  533
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          X.    Rule 304.c.(1) - Emergency spill response program, if construction
                and/or drilling operations are proposed within 2,640 feet of a GUDI
                or Type III Well;

          Y.    Rule 304.c.(2) - Noise mitigation plan;

          Z.    Rule 304.c.(3) - Light mitigation plan;

          AA.   Rule 304.c.(4) - Odor mitigation plan (if within 2,000 feet of a
                Residential Building Unit);

          BB.   Rule 304.c.(5) - Dust mitigation plan;

          CC.   Rule 304.c.(6) - Transportation plan, if the Relevant Local
                Government requires it;

          DD.   Rule 304.c.(7) - Operations safety management program,

          EE.   Rule 304.c.(8) - Emergency response plan,

          FF.   Rule 304.c.(9) - Flood shut-in plan, if in a Floodplain;

          GG.   Rule 304.c.(10) - Hydrogen sulfide drilling operations plan, if H2S is
                anticipated;

          HH.   Rule 304.c.(11) - Waste management plan, specific to construction,
                drilling, any data gathering operations, and for any subsequent Well
                statuses such as Shut-In or Temporarily Abandoned until the Well
                is either re-permitted or Plugged and Abandoned;

          II.   Rule 304.c.(14) - Topsoil protection plan;

          JJ.   Rule 304.c.(15) - Stormwater management plan;

          KK.   Rule 304.c.(16) - Interim Reclamation plan;

          LL.   Rule 304.c.(17) - Wildlife plan;

          MM.   Rule 304.c.(18) - Water plan;

          NN.   Rule 304.c.(21) - Geologic Hazard plan, if any Geologic Hazards
                are identified/confirmed on the Geologic Hazard Map;

          OO.   Details on the end use of the operations including:

                i.     Whether the Operator will utilize the Geothermal Resources
                       to produce or store mechanical or thermal energy, and if so,
                       details of the process(es) that the Operator will employ to
                       produce or store such energy, the anticipated amount of



                                                                                   534
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        energy to be produced or stored expressed in joules or
                        megawatts, and the ultimate disposition of any energy to be
                        produced or stored;

                 ii.    Whether the Operator will utilize the Geothermal Resources
                        for heating buildings or other structures or infrastructure, and
                        if so, the details of how the Operator will transport the
                        Geothermal Resource to the ultimate use point;

                 iii.   Any other end use contemplated by the Deep Geothermal
                        Operations including details on how the Operator will
                        achieve such end use; and

                 iv.    Whether the Operator will extract minerals from Geothermal
                        Fluids and the Operator’s plan for disposition of those
                        extracted minerals;

           PP.   Whether the Deep Geothermal Operations contemplate reinjection
                 of fluids, and if so, the number of reinjected fluids anticipated;

           QQ.   Any surface facilities the Operator anticipates locating on the Deep
                 Geothermal Location; and

           RR.   Evidence or certification that the Deep Geothermal Operator has a
                 right to construct a Deep Geothermal Location at the proposed site.
                 Such requirement can be satisfied with:

                 i.     A redacted version of any written agreement between the
                        Deep Geothermal Operator and the surface owner including
                        a Surface Use Agreement, a geothermal and/or nontributary
                        water lease, or other written agreement which includes
                        authorization from the surface owner to construct the Deep
                        Geothermal Location at the proposed site, a description of
                        the lands subject to the agreement, signatures of the parties
                        to the agreement, dates of signature, and any provisions of
                        the agreement that are relevant to the Form 2G; or

                 ii.    Certification that the Deep Geothermal Operator has a right
                        to construct pursuant to § 37-90.5-105, C.R.S.

     (4)   As to the Form 2G requirements described in Rule 1305.b.(3), a Deep
           Geothermal Operator may omit an informational requirement of the Form
           2G if the required information is not applicable. The Deep Geothermal
           Operator will include an explanation of why the information is not
           applicable. Nothing in this Rule 1305.b.(4) precludes the Director or
           Commission from requiring the applicant to submit information otherwise
           required by Rule 1305.b.(3) because the Director or Commission
           determines that the information is applicable.



                                                                                    535
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   The applicant may submit substantially equivalent information or plans developed
     through a Local Government land use process or a federal agency permitting or
     leasing process in lieu of providing information required by this Rule 1305.
     Nothing in this Rule 1305.c. precludes the Director or Commission from requiring
     the applicant to submit information otherwise required by Rule 1305. because the
     Director or Commission determines that the information developed through the
     Local Government land use process or federal agency permitting or leasing
     process must be supplemented.

d.   Notice of Completeness and Public Comment. When the Director determines that
     the application for Deep Geothermal Operations is complete, the Director will
     post the application and supporting materials to the Commission’s website and
     will notify the Relevant and Proximate Local Government. The website posting
     will provide:

     (1)   The date by which public comments must be received to be considered,
           which is:

           A.     60 days from the date the permit application for Deep Geothermal
                  Operations is posted if the permit application for Deep Geothermal
                  Operations includes any proposed Deep Geothermal Location(s)
                  within 2,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy
                  Building Unit, or School Facility within a Disproportionately
                  Impacted Community; and

           B.     30 days from the date the permit application for Deep Geothermal
                  Operations was posted for all other permit applications for Deep
                  Geothermal Operations; and

     (2)   The mechanism for the public to provide comments.

e.   Consideration and Approval or Denial. Upon closure of the public comment
     period, the Director will review all public comments and consultative documents
     received:

     (1)   If appropriate, the Director may administratively issue a conditional
           approval of the permit for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (2)   The Director will inform the Commission and Relevant and Proximate
           Local Governments when the Director issues a conditional approval of the
           permit for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (3)   The Director’s conditional approval will become final 10 days after the
           Director issues a conditional approval, unless the Commission stays the
           conditional approval on its own motion.

     (4)   If the Director determines that there are circumstances that warrant the
           permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations going before the



                                                                                   536
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Commission for a special hearing, the Director will issue a director’s
           recommendation pursuant to Rule 306 and will work with the applicant to
           schedule the hearing as soon as possible.

f.   Specific Provisions for Geothermal Science Wells.

     (1)   The provisions of this Rule 1305 apply to permit applications for
           Geothermal Science Wells, except that applicants may omit the following
           listed provisions from the permit application:

           A.    Rule 1305.b.(3). I. - Preliminary process flow diagrams;

           B.    Rule 1305.b.(3). L. - Related location and flow line map;

           C.    Rule 1305. b.(3).OO. - Details of the end use of the operations; and

           D.    Rule 1305.b.(3). PP. - Reinjection of fluids.

     (2)   Permit applications for Geothermal Science Wells will include the following
           provisions specific to Geothermal Science Wells:

           A.    A general description of the timing, duration, and types of tests that
                 may be run in the wellbore for scientific purposes;

           B.    A general description of the reason for the scientific well and its
                 potential future use;

           C.    Flow Testing for Geothermal Information or Development. A
                 flow test for each Geothermal Science Well will be conducted for a
                 continuous period of not less than 72 hours unless the Director
                 specifies or approves a different period of time. Such flow testing
                 will not exceed a cumulative total of 7 days unless the Director has
                 granted prior written approval of additional testing. DWR may
                 impose other test requirements as deemed necessary. Copies of
                 any temperature records and any fluid sample analysis obtained
                 from the testing will be submitted through a Form 4, Sundry Notice.

                 i.     Discharge of Flow Testing Fluids - An Owner or Operator
                        of a Geothermal Science Well is responsible for being
                        knowledgeable about, and complying with, regulations for
                        discharge. The Well owner shall also be responsible for
                        obtaining and maintaining any necessary discharge permits
                        required by WQCD.

           D.    Operators of Deep Geothermal Science Wells will comply with Rule
                 905.c.(2).D., when applicable.




                                                                                       537
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1306. SUSPENDING APPROVED DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS

The Director may suspend an approved permit for Deep Geothermal Operations, or any
associated permits for Geothermal Resource Units, Form 2Gs, or Form 2s, if the
Director has reasonable cause to believe that information submitted on an application
was materially incorrect. An Operator may petition the Commission to review the
Director’s decision.

1307. EXPIRATION

a.    Permits for Deep Geothermal Operations are valid for five years. The following
      expirations will occur five years from the approval date of the permit for Deep
      Geothermal Operations:

      (1)    If drilling operations have not commenced for a permitted Well, the Form 2
             for the undrilled Well is null and void.

      (2)    If drilling operations have not commenced at any Wells on a Deep
             Geothermal Location, the Form 2G(s) for that Deep Geothermal Location,
             any associated Production Facilities designed to serve only that Location,
             and the associated Form 2s are null and void; or

      (3)    If drilling operations have not commenced for any permitted Well in a
             Geothermal Resource Unit, the Geothermal Resource Unit order will be
             vacated, and any associated Form 2Gs and Form 2s are null and void.

      (4)    When issuing a permit for Deep Geothermal Operations, including a Form
             2, Form 2G, or Geothermal Resource Unit, the Director or Commission
             may impose conditions of approval to the five-year expiration necessary
             and reasonable for the specific type of Deep Geothermal Operation or to
             protect public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife
             resources, or avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse impacts to
             Disproportionately Impacted Communities.

b.    Extensions. The Commission or Director will not approve extensions for a permit
      for Deep Geothermal Operations, a Form 2G, a Form 2, or a Geothermal
      Resource Unit.

c.    Applications and Refile Forms After Expiration. Refile permit applications for
      Deep Geothermal Operations, Refile Form 2Gs, Refile Form 2s, and Geothermal
      Resource Unit applications may be filed within 60 days prior to expiration or
      anytime following expiration and are subject to the Commission’s Rules in effect
      at the time of submission.

d.    Reclamation. Any built Deep Geothermal Location for which a Form 2G expires
      pursuant to Rule 1307.a will be subject to final Reclamation pursuant to the
      Commission’s 1000 Series Rules unless the Deep Geothermal Operator refiled
      pursuant to Rule 1307.c. in which case the Deep Geothermal Operator need not



                                                                                    538
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     conduct final reclamation until either six months after the initial expiration date or
     upon a final decision on the refiled application(s), whichever is sooner. If the
     refiled application is approved, the Deep Geothermal Operator need not conduct
     final reclamation while the Form 2G is valid.

1308. SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS ON EXISTING WELLS

a.   The Operator will submit and obtain the Director’s approval of a Form 4 before
     conducting any subsequent Well operations involving heavy equipment, except
     for routine Well maintenance.

b.   Verbal Approval. If during the course of the subsequent operations or routine
     Well maintenance the Operator determines that additional subsequent operations
     involving heavy equipment that are not routine maintenance are necessary, the
     Operator may obtain verbal approval from the Director to conduct the subsequent
     operations. If the Operator obtains verbal approval from the Director, the
     Operator will submit a Form 4 to obtain written approval from the Director within 7
     days.

c.   Information Requirements. The Form 4 will describe the details of the proposed
     work.

d.   Approval of Subsequent Well Operations. The Director may approve a Form 4
     that complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules, and protects and
     minimizes adverse impacts to public health, safety, and welfare, including
     protection of the environment and wildlife resources.



     (1)    The Director may add any conditions of the approval to a Form 4 that are
            necessary and reasonable to ensure compliance with all requirements of
            the Commission’s Rules, or to protect and minimize adverse impacts to
            public health, safety, and welfare, including the environment and wildlife
            resources.

     (2)    The Director will review the Deep Geothermal Location where the Well is
            located to ensure that necessary and reasonable conditions of approval
            are applied to protect and minimize adverse impacts to public health,
            safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

e.   Notice Requirements. An Operator will provide notice of operations covered by
     Rule 1308.a to the Surface Owner pursuant to Rule 412.a.(4). The Operator will
     also provide notice and a copy of the Form 4 for subsequent operations to the
     Relevant and Proximate Local Government within two business days of
     submitting the Form 4 to the Commission.




                                                                                        539
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1309. GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE UNITS

a.   Procedural Requirements.

     (1)   Operators will submit permit applications for Geothermal Resource Units
           either simultaneously with or subsequent to submission of a
           corresponding permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations. It is
           the Commission’s preference that permit applications for Deep
           Geothermal Operations and permit applications for Geothermal Resource
           Units be submitted simultaneously. In no event will an Operator submit a
           permit application for a Geothermal Resource Unit prior to submitting the
           corresponding permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.

     (2)   All permit applications for Geothermal Resource Units will include the
           following information:

           A.    Certification that the Operator has complied with the Local
                 Government siting disposition requirements.

           B.    Certification that the Operations in the Geothermal Resource Unit
                 will be conducted in a reasonable manner to protect and minimize
                 adverse impacts to public health, safety, and welfare, including the
                 protection of the environment and wildlife resources.

           C.    The proposed unit boundary and interwell completion setback
                 distances.

           D.    All existing Locations and associated Wells that are developing the
                 same formation(s) in the application lands. The permit application
                 will discuss what the Operator intends to do with the existing
                 Locations and Wells.

           E.    The wellbore orientation for all Wells in the proposed unit.

           F.    Whether there are existing Geothermal Resource Units within the
                 proposed application lands and what the disposition of the existing
                 Geothermal Resource Units and Wells will be under the proposed
                 permit application.

           G.    The approved production and injection rates for any existing
                 Geothermal Resource Units and/or Wells that are developing the
                 same formation(s) in the application lands, if applicable.

           H.    The Deep Geothermal Locations that are proposed for the unit. If
                 an Operator previously submitted a permit application for Deep
                 Geothermal Operations, the Operator will identify the document
                 number for the Form 2G. If the Form 2G has already been
                 approved, the Operator will identify its Location ID number.



                                                                                    540
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           I.    The total number of proposed Wells for the unit.

           J.    Unit Plan. A unit plan which describes how the Geothermal
                 Resource Unit will be operated in a manner which encourages
                 sustainable use of the Geothermal Resource. The unit plan will
                 include the Operator’s plan for equitable compensation to any
                 impacted owner of an Allocated Geothermal Resource to be
                 included in the proposed Geothermal Resource Unit. The unit plan
                 will include the Operator’s plan for controlling the quantity of
                 Geothermal Fluids extracted, including any plans to reinject
                 Geothermal Fluids.

           K.    Unit Area of Review. The application will include a review of all
                 existing Wells within the unit area and within 1/4 mile of the unit
                 boundary, describing existing isolation of injection zones, oil and
                 gas production formations, formations containing Geothermal
                 Resources, confining layers, and Underground Sources of Drinking
                 Water.

           L.    Any additional information that may be required to support the
                 requested prayer for relief.

           M.    All prior orders that implicate the prayer for relief.

           N.    Certification that satisfies the requirements of Rule 505.a.

           O.    For at least one portion of a geothermal tract within the proposed
                 unit, documentation showing the applicant’s status as an Owner
                 within the unit. Acceptable forms of documentation include, but are
                 not limited to:

                 i.     Geothermal and/or nontributary water deed or
                        memorandum;

                 ii.    Geothermal and/or nontributary water lease or
                        memorandum; or

                 iii.   Any other agreement confirming the applicant’s right to drill
                        into and produce a Geothermal Resource, or a
                        memorandum of such agreement.

           P.    For federal Geothermal Resources, certification that the Operator
                 will comply with any applicable federal unit agreement or
                 communitization agreement requirements.

     (3)   Operators who can demonstrate ownership of all Geothermal Resources
           to be impacted by the proposed Deep Geothermal Operations are not




                                                                                   541
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           required to comply with the equitable compensation information
           requirements.

     (4)   Deep Geothermal Operators will provide notice of its permit application for
           a Geothermal Resource Unit to all Geothermal Resource owners whose
           Geothermal Resources will be impacted by the proposed Geothermal
           Resource Unit. The Deep Geothermal Operator will provide such notice
           within 7 days of the completeness determination required pursuant to Rule
           1309.b. and 1305.d. The notice required by this Rule 1309.a.(4) will
           include:

           A.     An introductory letter including:

                  i.     The Deep Geothermal Operator’s contact information
                         including its electronic mail address, phone number, and
                         physical address(es) to which the public may direct
                         questions and comments;

                  ii.    The contact information for the Relevant Local Government;

                  iii.   The Commission’s website address and main telephone
                         number;

                  iv.    The location of all proposed or permitted Deep Geothermal
                         Wells and Locations; and

                  v.     The anticipated date that each phase of operations will
                         commence (by month and year).

           B.     A copy of the Unit Plan required by Rule 1309.a.(2).J.;

           C.     The document number(s) assigned to the permit application for the
                  Geothermal Resource Unit; and

           D.     Information about the Commission’s public comment process and
                  the relevant deadlines pursuant to Rule 1305.d.

           E.     The notice required by this Rule 1309.a.(4) will comply with the
                  procedure for providing notice described at Rule 303.e.(3).

b.   Consideration and Approval or Denial. Permit applications for Geothermal
     Resource Units are subject to the notice of completeness and public comment
     period provisions of Rule 1305.d. Approval or denial of the permit application for
     Geothermal Resource Units is subject to the approval or denial provisions of
     Rule 1305.e.

c.   Forms. For permit applications for Geothermal Resource Units filed
     simultaneously with the underlying permit application for Deep Geothermal



                                                                                     542
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Operations, the applicant will include the required information as an attachment
     to the Form 2. For permit applications for Geothermal Resource Units filed
     subsequent to an approved permit for Deep Geothermal Operations, the
     applicant will include the required information on a Form 4.

d.   Amending Existing Unit. The Deep Geothermal Operator will submit a Form 4
     to amend the boundaries of the Geothermal Resource Unit if, upon review of
     technical testimony or data, the Deep Geothermal Operator or Director
     determines the impacted Geothermal Resources do not correspond with the
     established unit boundaries. The Deep Geothermal Operator will comply with
     Rule 1309.a.(4).A – C. and E., to provide notice to those Geothermal Resource
     owners whose Geothermal Resources will be included or excluded as a result of
     the amendment.

1310. EQUITABLE COMPENSATION FOR GEOTHERMAL RESOURCES.

a.   A permit application for a Geothermal Resource Unit may request the inclusion of
     Allocated Geothermal Resources owned by unleased interest owners in the
     GRU, provided that the unleased interest owners are equitably compensated by
     the Operator for use of those Allocated Geothermal Resources.

b.   In its permit application for a Geothermal Resource Unit which includes a request
     that the Commission include Allocated Geothermal Resources owned by
     unleased interest owners, the Operator will include the following:



     (1)   Evidence that the Operator owns, or has secured the written consent of
           Owners of more than 45% of the Allocated Geothermal Resources to be
           included within the proposed Geothermal Resource Unit. Such evidence
           may be provided prior to or after drilling of a well, but no later than 90 days
           in advance of the date the matter is to be decided by the Director or
           Commission pursuant to Rule 510.

     (2)   Evidence that the Operator tendered to the unleased interest owners a
           good faith, reasonable offer to lease or participate at least 90 days prior to
           the decision on the Geothermal Resource Unit. For the purposes of this
           Rule 1310, “good faith” means a state of mind consisting in observance of
           reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing in Deep Geothermal
           Operations, and absence of intent to defraud or seek unconscionable
           advantage.

     (3)   A proposed plan for equitable compensation to any impacted interest
           Owner of an Allocated Geothermal Resource to be included in the
           Geothermal Resource Unit.




                                                                                      543
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Upon a showing by the applicant that it has complied with the Commission’s
     rules, the Director or Commission may deem an Owner to be a nonconsenting
     interest owner in the Geothermal Resource Unit if:

     (1)   The Operator certifies that it provided notice to all nonconsenting interest
           owners to be included within the proposed Geothermal Resource Unit.
           The Operators will comply with Rule 303.e.(3) for the procedure for
           providing notice. The notice must include:

           A.     The Operator’s contact information including its electronic mail
                  address, phone number, and physical address(es) to which the
                  public may direct questions and comments;

           B.     The Operator’s proposed plan for equitable compensation for all
                  Geothermal Resources to be included in the Geothermal Resource
                  Unit;

           C.     ECMC’s information sheet about the procedural steps involved with
                  the Director’s and Commission’s review of permit application for the
                  Geothermal Resource Unit;

           D.     ECMC’s information sheet about the Commission’s public comment
                  process and the relevant deadlines;

           E.     ECMC’s information sheet about how the public may view the
                  status of the permit application for the Geothermal Resource Unit
                  on the Commission’s website; and

           F.     Information on how the public may learn more details about and
                  ask questions about the permit application for the Geothermal
                  Resource Unit prior to the closure of the public comment period.

           G.     All written information provided pursuant to this Rule 1310.c.(1) will
                  also be provided in all languages spoken by 5% or more of the
                  population in all census block groups within 2,000 feet of each
                  proposed Geothermal Resource Unit.

     (2)   After receiving an offer to participate, and being given at least 60 days to
           review the offer, the Owner does not elect in writing to consent to
           participate in the cost of the Well(s) concerning which the Geothermal
           Resource Unit order is sought. The offer to participate will include the
           following information, at a minimum:

           A.     The location and objective depth of the Well(s).

                  i.     Directional Wells will include the estimated measured depth
                         and true vertical depth (“md”, “tvd”); and




                                                                                     544
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  ii.    Horizontal Wells will include the estimated measured depth,
                         true vertical depth, and lateral length (“md”, “tvd”, and “ll”);

           B.     The estimated drilling and completion cost in dollars of the Well(s)
                  (both the total cost and the Owner’s share);

           C.     The estimated spud date for the Well(s) or range of time within
                  which spudding is to occur; and

           D.     Contact information for an Operator representative who will be
                  available to answer Owner questions, and ECMC’s brochure
                  describing its procedures for reviewing and approving applications
                  for Geothermal Resource Units which include nonconsenting
                  interest owners.

           E.     An authority for expenditure prepared by the Operator and
                  containing the information required above, together with additional
                  information deemed appropriate by the Operator may satisfy these
                  obligations.

     (3)   If, after receiving a good faith offer to lease and given at least 60 days to
           review the offer, the unleased interest owner has failed to accept or
           refused a reasonable offer to lease.

     (4)   For an offer to lease to be considered reasonable and have been made in
           good faith, the offer will be written in clear and neutral language and
           include information on which the offered price can be determined to be
           fair. At any hearing or in written comment on the Geothermal Resource
           Unit, the burden of showing that an offer to lease is not reasonable or not
           made in good faith is upon the Owner of the Allocated Geothermal
           Resources who opposes inclusion in the Geothermal Resource Unit.

d.   A nonconsenting interest owner will be subject to cost recovery.

e.   Consideration and Approval or Denial. A permit application for a Geothermal
     Resource Unit that will include nonconsenting interest owners will be considered
     concurrently with the associated permit application for the GRU, pursuant to Rule
     1309. If an Operator submits a permit application to include nonconsenting
     interest owners after approval of a GRU, the permit application to include
     nonconsenting interest owners is subject to the approval or denial provisions of
     Rule 1305.e.

1311. CONVERTING WELLBORES FOR DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS

a.   Converting wellbores includes repurposing an existing Well for any purpose other
     than its originally intended and permitted use.




                                                                                      545
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   An Operator will not convert an existing Well unless the Director approves a
     Form 2 and 2G.

     (1)   For a Form 2G required by this Rule 1311, the Deep Geothermal Operator
           may avail itself of the substantially-equivalent provisions in Rule 1305.c.
           as to information or plans developed through a Local Government land
           use process, a federal agency permitting or leasing process, or a
           previously approved Form 2A for the existing Oil and Gas Location
           proposed to be converted.

c.   The Director may request any information necessary and reasonable to
     determine that the proposed well conversion protects and minimizes adverse
     impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.
     This may include the Director requesting a permit application for Deep
     Geothermal Operations pursuant to Rule 1305.

d.   Any significant change to the design and operation of a Location, including but
     not limited to the addition of surface Facilities necessary for the conversion of a
     wellbore, may require Director or Commission approval of a permit application for
     Deep Geothermal Operations.

e.   When converting a wellbore to use for Deep Geothermal Operations, the
     applicant will include in its permit application a Surface Use Agreement or
     memorandum of Surface Use Agreement between the applicant and the owner of
     the surface estate covering the proposed Deep Geothermal Location.

f.   Permitting Requirements. To convert an existing Well, an Operator will:

     (1)   Submit a Form 2 and Form 2G, pursuant to Rules 1305.b.(2) and (3); and

     (2)   Demonstrate the wellbore integrity for converted Wells with appropriate
           logging and/or mechanical testing as required by Rule 417.

g.   The Notice of Completeness and Public Comment provisions of Rule 1305.d.
     apply to applications filed under this Rule 1311.

1312. GEOTHERMAL INJECTION

a.   An Operator cannot operate a Geothermal Injection Well without authorization to
     inject from the relevant authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act, an
     approved Form 4 pursuant to Rule 1312.d, and an approved Form 2 for the
     Geothermal Injection Well.

b.   For Deep Geothermal Operations utilizing Geothermal Injection Wells, the
     Operator will comply with Rule 805, and Rule 806.a. and b.

c.   Geophysical Logs. Operators will run openhole gamma ray, electrical resistivity,
     and neutron/density logs from total depth to the bottom of the surface casing on



                                                                                    546
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     all Geothermal Injection Wells, in addition to any other logging requirements of
     Rule 408.r., unless otherwise specified as a condition of approval on the Form 2.

d.   Form 4, Authorization to Inject. After a Geothermal Injection Well is completed,
     recompleted, or after Injection Zones are temporarily abandoned, the Deep
     Geothermal Operator will file a Form 4, Authorization to Inject. The Form 4,
     Authorization to Inject will include the following as-constructed details:

     (1)   Wellbore Diagram. A final schematic drawing showing all casing strings
           with cement volumes and tops, plug back total depth, isolation devices,
           depth of any existing open or squeezed perforations, setting depths of any
           bridge plugs, formation tops, perforations in the Injection Zone, tubing and
           packer size, and setting depths.

     (2)   Casing and Cementing. Documentation of the final casing and cement in
           the Geothermal Injection Well, any existing remedial cement confirmed
           during the work, and remedial cement placed during the work.

     (3)   Cement Bond Log. Unless already provided to the Commission, to
           determine if the cement has been placed to adequately isolate the
           Injection Zone, production zones, and Groundwater, a cement bond or
           other cement evaluation Log will be run and provided with this report as a
           means of verifying cementing records.

     (4)   Mechanical Integrity Testing Requirement. Before the Director or
           Commission approve the authorization to inject, the proposed Geothermal
           Injection Well will satisfactorily pass a mechanical integrity test pursuant to
           Rule 417 and be witnessed by the Director.

e.   Maximum Allowable Injection Rate and Surface Injection Pressure. The
     Director will set the maximum allowable injection rate and surface injection
     pressure in the approved Form 4, Authorization to Inject. Except during Hydraulic
     Fracturing Treatment, the maximum allowable injection pressure will be set
     below the fracture gradient of the injection zone, as determined by a step-rate
     injection test in the Geothermal Injection Well, a step rate injection test in an
     offset well completed in the same injection zone, or other test acceptable to the
     Director. The maximum allowable injection pressure will assure that the pressure
     in the injection zone during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate
     existing fractures. Until a step-rate injection test is performed, the maximum
     allowable injection pressure will be set consistent with a formation pressure
     gradient of 0.6 pounds per square inch (“psi”) per total vertical foot from surface
     to the uppermost injection perforation.

f.   Deep Geothermal Operators utilizing Geothermal Injection Wells will perform
     continuous seismic monitoring if:

     (1)   The Director determines it necessary to protect public health, safety, and
           welfare, including protection of the environment and wildlife resources;



                                                                                      547
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)    The Operator plans to inject at a rate exceeding 40,000 bbl/day; or

     (3)    If injection is to occur within any Precambrian basement formation or
            within 300 feet in the vertical dimension of any Precambrian basement
            formation.

g.   For Deep Geothermal Operations that are subject to Rule 1312.f, the Operator
     will provide seismic monitoring data to the Director upon request, and a traffic
     light protocol for seismicity associated with injection activities may be applied as
     a condition of approval.

h.   Geothermal Injection Wells may only inject the following types of Fluids:

     (1)    Geothermal Fluids from the same geothermal reservoir, including any
            Geothermal Fluids produced during flow testing;

     (2)    Fresh or recycled water used for the makeup of minor system losses; or

     (3)    Other Fluids with prior approval from the Director or other relevant
            authority.

i.   When an Operator proposes to inject any Fluid other than Geothermal Fluids or
     fresh or recycled water, pursuant to Rule 1312.h.(3), the Operator will comply
     with Rule 803.g.(5).C. and D.

1313. OPERATIONS AND REPORTING

a.   Form 7G, Deep Geothermal Operator's Monthly Report of Operations.
     Operators will report all existing Deep Geothermal Wells that are not Plugged
     and Abandoned on the Form 7G, Deep Geothermal Operator’s Monthly Report of
     Operations within 45 days after the end of each month.

     (1)    Operators will report a Deep Geothermal Well every month from the
            month that it is spud until it has been Plugged and Abandoned and
            reported for one month as abandoned. In addition to their producing and
            injecting and Plugged and Abandoned Wells, Operators will identify and
            list all drilling, Shut-In Wells, Suspended Operations, Temporarily
            Abandoned Wells, and Waiting on Completion Wells on their Form 7G
            reports.

     (2)    Operators will report each formation that is completed in a Deep
            Geothermal Well every month from the time that it is completed until it has
            been abandoned and reported for one month as abandoned.

     (3)    Operators will report the volume and disposition of Geothermal Fluids
            produced from a Deep Geothermal Well within 45 days after the end of
            each month. The reported volumes will include all Fluids produced during
            Flowback, initial testing, Completion, and production of the Deep



                                                                                      548
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Geothermal Well or Geothermal Injection Well. Produced fluids include,
           but are not limited to, produced water and fluids recovered during drilling,
           casing cementing, pressure testing, Completion, workover, and formation
           stimulation of all Deep Geothermal Wells including production, exploration,
           injection, service and monitoring wells.

     (4)   Operators will report the volume of any Fluids injected into a Geothermal
           Injection Well within 45 days after the end of each month. Any added fresh
           or recycled water, including but not limited to “makeup water” described in
           Rule 1312.h.(2), will be reported separately. The Operator will also report
           the source(s) of such water.

     (5)   Operators will report surface temperature and flow rate readings of
           Geothermal Fluid as near as practicable to the wellhead of a Deep
           Geothermal Well.

     (6)   For any Closed-Loop Geothermal System, Operators will report volumes
           and percentages of Fluid lost to the subsurface.

     (7)   Operators will measure and report Fluids and Geothermal Fluids in
           accordance with Rule 431.a.

b.   Form 4, Sundry Notices. Deep Geothermal Operators are subject to the
     provisions of Rule 404.a. and d.

     (1)   Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 1302.a. for any Form 4
           submitted to propose a change to an approved permit for Deep
           Geothermal Operations.

     (2)   Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 1305.a. for any Form 4
           submitted to propose a change to an approved Form 2G associated with a
           Deep Geothermal Location or Facility.

     (3)   When amending a Form 2A previously approved for Oil and Gas
           Operations to include Ancillary Heat Production of Geothermal Resources,
           the Operator will submit a Form 4, Sundry Notice proposing such change
           to the approved Oil and Gas Operations, unless the Operator proposes to
           deepen, re-enter, or recomplete a Well to facilitate Ancillary Heat
           Production, in which the Operator will comply with Rule 308.

c.   Form 42, Field Operations Notice. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply
     with the provisions of Rules 405.a.-r. and 405.t.

d.   Deep Geothermal Location Construction. Deep Geothermal Operators will
     comply with the provisions of Rules 406 and 407.

e.   Deep Geothermal Drilling Rules. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
     the provisions of Rule 408.a.- e., 408.g. - p. and Rule 408.r.- aa.



                                                                                   549
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Cementing. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 408.f;
           alternative cementing methods must be approved in writing by the Director
           or Commission.

           A.     To request approval of an alternative cementing method in the
                  permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations, the Deep
                  Geothermal Operator will describe the proposed alternative
                  cementing method in its Form 2 required by Rule 1305.b.(2).

           B.     To request approval of an alternative cementing method after
                  approval of the Form 2, the Deep Geothermal Operator will submit
                  a Form 4 describing the proposed alternative cementing method.

           C.     As to both Rule 1313.e.(1).A. and B., the Director or Commission
                  can request, and the Deep Geothermal Operator will provide, any
                  additional information the Director or Commission consider
                  necessary to adequately assess the proposed alternative
                  cementing method.

f.   Directional Drilling. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with the provisions
     of Rule 410.a.-c.

g.   Public Water System Protection. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
     the provisions of Rule 411.

h.   Surface Owner Notice. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with the
     provisions of Rule 412.b.

i.   Form 5, Drilling Completion Reports. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply
     with the provisions of Rule 414.

j.   Form 5A, Completed Interval Report. Deep Geothermal Operators will submit
     a Form 5A, Completed Interval Report for a Deep Geothermal Well within 30
     days after Completion of the Deep Geothermal Well. The requirements of Rule
     416.b. and c. are applicable to Form 5As submitted for Deep Geothermal Wells.

k.   Mechanical Integrity Tests and Bradenhead Monitoring.

     (1)   Mechanical Integrity Tests for Geothermal Injection Wells.

           A.     Deep Geothermal Injection wells are subject to Rule 417.a.

           B.     All Deep Geothermal Wells are subject to Rule 417.b-g.

     (2)   Form 21, Mechanical Integrity Test. Deep Geothermal Operators will
           comply with Rule 418.




                                                                                  550
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   Bradenhead Monitoring. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
           Rules 419 and 420.

l.   Statewide Floodplain Requirements. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply
     with Rule 421.

m.   Welfare Protection Standards. Rules 422, 423, 424, 426, and 427 apply to
     Deep Geothermal Operations.

n.   Well Control. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 428.

o.   Measurement and Reporting of Produced, Reused, Recycled, and Injected
     Water. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 431.a.-b. In the context
     of Deep Geothermal Operations, Rule 431.a.-b. apply to all Deep Geothermal
     Wells including Geothermal Injection Wells. In addition to the requirements of
     Rule 431.a.-b., when reporting fluid volumes on the Form 7G, Deep Geothermal
     Operators will also calculate volumes in gallons and acre-feet.

p.   Abandonment. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rules 434.a.,
     434.b., 434.c.(2).A.i., 434.c.(2).B., 434.c.(2).C., and 435.

q.   Seismic Operations, Notice, Consultation, and Reporting. Deep Geothermal
     operators will comply with Rule 436.

r.   Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Additives. Deep Geothermal Operations will
     comply with Rule 437.

1314. GEOTHERMAL SAFETY AND FACILITIES OPERATIONS

a.   Inspection and Maintenance. Deep Geothermal Operators will regularly inspect
     Deep Geothermal Locations and Facilities. All Deep Geothermal Wells,
     equipment, and Facilities utilized in the development of Geothermal Resources,
     will be maintained in good condition to prevent loss of Geothermal Resources,
     and to protect public health, safety, and welfare, including protection of the
     environment and wildlife resources. Deep Geothermal Operators will promptly
     investigate, and if appropriate, repair, replace, or remediate any malfunctioning
     equipment or process. If a Deep Geothermal Operator takes action to address
     any malfunctioning equipment or process identified during an inspection, the
     Deep Geothermal Operator will maintain documentation of the action taken, and
     provide it to the Director upon request. The Deep Geothermal Operator will
     submit documentation of the results of all Deep Geothermal Facility inspections
     to the Director upon request.

b.   Corrosion.

     (1)   The Operator will check the condition of the casing on any Geothermal
           Well with a pipe analysis log in conjunction with any other logging
           requirements of Rule 408.r.



                                                                                   551
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   On a Form 4, Sundry Notice, Operators will provide a corrosion risk
           assessment that includes prevention measures to minimize internal and
           external corrosion within one year of a new Geothermal Well commencing
           production, or a Geothermal Injection Well commencing injection, and
           then at least once every five (5) years thereafter.

     (3)   The corrosion risk assessment shall include consideration of at least the
           following:

           A.     Evaluation of casing and tubing integrity and identification of
                  defects caused by corrosion or other chemical or mechanical
                  damage;

           B.     Corrosion potential of Geothermal Fluids and solids, including the
                  impact of operating pressures, temperatures, and compositions on
                  the corrosion potential of Geothermal Fluids; and

           C.     Corrosion potential of uncemented casing.

c.   General Safety Requirements. Operators will operate and maintain all Deep
     Geothermal Facilities in a safe manner. Operators will train their employees in
     the safe conduct of all job responsibilities, including safe operation and location
     of all equipment. An Operator will ensure that all contractors, subcontractors, and
     persons directly under the Operator’s control on a Deep Geothermal Location or
     at a Deep Geothermal Facility receive adequate training and are aware of the
     hazards presented by the Operator’s Deep Geothermal Operations.

d.   Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 602.

e.   Operational and Safety Requirements. Deep Geothermal Operators will
     comply with Rules 603.a-c, 603.f, 603.h-j, and 603.l-o.

f.   Setbacks and Siting Requirements. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply
     with Rules 605.a-e, 605.g-h, 606, 607, 608.c, 608.e-g.

     (1)   At the time the Deep Geothermal Well is drilled, the Well will be located
           not less than 200 feet from Building Units, public roads, above ground
           utility lines, or railroads, unless the applicant can justify such placement
           with technical testimony at hearing or in the application, and the applicant
           includes informed consent from all Building Unit owner(s) and tenant(s)
           explicitly agreeing to the proposed Deep Geothermal Well.

     (2)   No Geothermal Pad Surface will be located less than 500 feet from one or
           more Building Units not subject to a Surface Use Agreement or waiver,
           unless the Deep Geothermal Operator can justify such placement with
           technical testimony at hearing or in the application, and the applicant
           includes informed consent from all Building Unit owner(s) and tenant(s)
           explicitly agreeing to the proposed Geothermal Pad Surface.



                                                                                    552
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

g.   Fire Prevention And Protection. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
     Rules 610.a-h, 610.j, 610.l-r.

h.   Air And Gas Drilling. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 611.

i.   Hydrogen Sulfide Gas. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rules 612.

j.   Groundwater Baseline Sampling And Monitoring. Deep Geothermal
     Operators will comply with Rule 615.

k.   Those 1100-Series Rules applicable to Flowlines are also applicable to
     Geothermal Flowlines.

1315. GEOTHERMAL RESERVOIR MONITORING

a.   On a Form 4, Sundry Notice, Operators of Deep Geothermal Wells and
     Geothermal Science Wells will report the initial state of the Geothermal
     Resource, obtained as soon as practicable after Completion of such Well, by
     providing data of temperature and pressure, as well as initial flow rates and
     volumes if a flow test was done.

b.   On a Form 4, Sundry Notice, Operators will provide observation well records
     within 30 days of any measurement taken in an observation well, or temperature
     gradient well, including temperature and pressure readings.

c.   Operators will annually report a summary of Fluid usage by submitting a Form 4
     Sundry to the Deep Geothermal Facility:

     (1)   For any Open-Loop Geothermal System, Operators will submit a summary
           of the difference between the volumes of Fluids produced and injected,
           including any fluid loss, and the volume and source of makeup water, if
           any.

     (2)   For any Closed-Loop Geothermal System, Operators will submit a
           summary of types and volumes of Fluids used in the system, including any
           fluid loss.

d.   Where the Director believes it is necessary to prevent waste, prevent the
     degradation of the geothermal resource, protect correlative rights, or to protect
     and minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
     and wildlife resources, the Director may require subsurface temperature or
     pressure measurements.

e.   The Director may require injection and/or reinjection of fluid where necessary for
     the maintenance of underground pressures, the prevention of subsidence, or the
     disposal of brines.




                                                                                     553
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1316. FINANCIAL ASSURANCE FOR DEEP GEOTHERMAL OPERATIONS

a.   Applicability.

     (1)   All Deep Geothermal Wells. This Rule 1316 applies to every Deep
           Geothermal Well and its associated Deep Geothermal Location and Deep
           Geothermal Facilities, in Colorado, except for those Deep Geothermal
           Operators who have an approved “Option 6” Financial Assurance Plan,
           pursuant to Rule 702.d.(6), and who are in compliance with their
           obligations to provide such Financial Assurance.

     (2)   Approved Wells Not Yet Spud. All references to Wells in this Rule 1316
           include Deep Geothermal Wells subject to an approved but not yet expired
           Form 2 that have not yet been Spud.

     (3)   Wells Subject to Federal Financial Assurance. Notwithstanding the
           provisions of Rule 1316.a.(1) and (2), an Operator may demonstrate in its
           Financial Assurance Plan that it has already provided or will provide
           Financial Assurance for the same Deep Geothermal Well, Deep
           Geothermal Location, or Deep Geothermal Facilities to the federal
           government at the time it files a Form 2G. All Operators with Deep
           Geothermal Wells subject to federal bonding requirements will so indicate
           in its Financial Assurance Plan. The Commission or Director will
           determine whether the Financial Assurance required by the federal
           government is substantially equivalent to the Commission’s 700-Series
           Financial Assurance obligations and, if not, what additional Financial
           Assurance is required, so long as the additional Financial Assurance does
           not duplicate Financial Assurance imposed by the federal government.

b.   Form 3, Financial Assurance Plan. Operators of 1 or more Wells subject to this
     Rule 1316 will file Financial Assurance Plans as required by this Rule 1316.b.
     Each Financial Assurance Plan will demonstrate how the Operator is financially
     capable of fulfilling its obligations under the Geothermal Act and the
     Commission’s Rules.

     (1)   Initial Financial Assurance Plan Submissions.

           A.     Wells Approved Before the Effective Date of this Rule.
                  Operators who operate Deep Geothermal Wells approved by the
                  Commission, Director, or DWR prior to the effective date of this
                  Rule 1316 will submit an initial Financial Assurance plan by
                  January 1, 2025.

           B.     All Other Wells for Deep Geothermal Operations. Operators who
                  submit permit applications for Deep Geothermal Operations
                  pursuant to Rule 1305 will include a Financial Assurance Plan in
                  the permit application for Deep Geothermal Operations.




                                                                                 554
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Review of Initial Financial Assurance Plan. Review of initial Financial
           Assurance Plans for Deep Geothermal Operations will occur according to
           the procedures described in Rules 702.b.(1).C. & 702.e.(1). If the Director
           denies the Operator’s proposed initial Financial Assurance Plan for Deep
           Geothermal Operations, the denial is subject to Commission review
           pursuant to the procedures described at Rules 702.b.(1).C. & 702.e.(2).
           Only CDPHE, CPW, or a Relevant Local Government with jurisdiction over
           Deep Geothermal Wells subject to the Deep Geothermal Operator’s initial
           Financial Assurance Plan may file a petition pursuant to Rule 507 to
           participate formally as a party in the Financial Assurance Hearing. If the
           Director denies the Operator’s proposed initial Financial Assurance Plan,
           either the Operator or the Director may file an application for Commission
           review under Rule 702.b.(1).C.i.

     (3)   Revised Financial Assurance Plans. A Deep Geothermal Operator will
           file a revised Financial Assurance Plan if the Deep Geothermal Operator
           believes that a change to its approved Financial Assurance Plan is
           warranted due to a change in circumstance. Revised Financial Assurance
           Plans will be reviewed, approved, or denied according to the procedures
           described at Rules 702.b.(2) & 702.e.(1). Only CDPHE, CPW, or a
           Relevant Local Government with jurisdiction over Deep Geothermal Wells
           subject to the Deep Geothermal Operator’s revised Financial Assurance
           Plan may file a petition pursuant to Rule 507 to participate formally as a
           party in the Financial Assurance Hearing. If the Director denies the
           Operator’s proposed revised Financial Assurance Plan, either the
           Operator or the Director may file an application for Commission review
           under Rules 702.b.(2).A.

     (4)   Director’s Annual Review. The Director will conduct a review of every
           registered Deep Geothermal Operator’s Financial Assurance at least once
           every fiscal year pursuant to Rule 707.a.(1). The Director may require an
           Operator to file a revised Financial Assurance Plan and file an application
           for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(11) based on
           the Director’s annual review pursuant to this Rule 1316.b.(4).

     (5)   Discretionary Review. If the Director has reasonable cause to believe
           that the Commission may become burdened with the costs of fulfilling an
           Operator’s plugging and abandonment, reclamation, or remediation
           obligations under the Geothermal Act or the Commission’s Rules because
           the Operator has demonstrated a pattern of non-compliance with the
           Commission’s Rules or other unique circumstances, the Director may file
           an application for a Financial Assurance hearing pursuant to Rule
           503.g.(11) to obtain the Commission’s approval of a plan for the Operator
           to provide additional Financial Assurance beyond what would otherwise
           be required under the Commission’s Rules.




                                                                                  555
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)   Consolidation of Related Operators. Where a registered Operator
           owns, holds, or controls 50% or more of one or more other registered
           Operators, that parent company Operator and its subsidiary Operators
           may be consolidated, at their discretion, for purposes of determining the
           applicable amount of required Financial Assurance, provided the parent
           Operator guarantees all Financial Assurance obligations for itself and the
           consolidated subsidiary entities. Consolidation under this Rule will include
           all of a parent Operator's subsidiary Operators.

c.   Contents of Financial Assurance Plans for Deep Geothermal Operations.
     Financial Assurance Plans for Deep Geothermal Operations will meet the
     following informational criteria:

     (1)   Information Requirements.

           A.     Well Status, Designation, and Depth Data. A summary table
                  accounting for all Wells subject this Rule 1316, including the
                  number of Wells that fall within each operational status and
                  designation as of the date the Financial Assurance Plan is
                  submitted, and the true vertical depth of such Wells.

           B.     Asset Retirement Planning. A demonstration of how the Operator
                  is planning for the retirement of its Deep Geothermal Operations
                  and Deep Geothermal Facilities based on the projected life of the
                  Deep Geothermal Operations, age of the infrastructure, and related
                  information.

     (2)   Financial Assurance Amount. The amount of Financial Assurance the
           Operator will provide to the Commission as soon as practicable but no
           later than 90 days from the Commission’s approval of the Financial
           Assurance Plan, which will be:

           A.     Single Well Plugging and Abandonment Cost. The Single Well
                  Plugging and Abandonment Cost, as defined in these Rules;

           B.     Location Reclamation Costs. The Location Reclamation Cost, as
                  defined in these Rules;

           C.     Other Financial Assurance. The amount of Financial Assurance
                  required by Rules 703.b, 703.c., and 703.e.

     (3)   Type of Financial Assurance. The Operator will indicate the type of
           Financial Assurance the Operator proposes to provide, pursuant to Rule
           701.

     (4)   Certification of Financial Capability. An Operator will provide a
           certification of financial capability signed by an Operator’s corporate officer




                                                                                      556
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           to ensure it is financially capable of meeting all of the obligations imposed
           by the Geothermal Act and Commission’s Rules.

d.   General Liability Insurance. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
     general liability insurance obligations pursuant to Rule 705.

e.   Release or Claim of Financial Assurance. Financial Assurance provided under
     this Rule 1316 is subject to the release and/or claim provisions of Rule 706.

1317. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PREVENTION

a.   General Standards. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 901.

b.   Pollution. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 902.a-e.

c.   Venting or Flaring Natural Gas. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with
     Rule 903.a-c.

d.   Management of Waste. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule
     905.a-b, 905.d-g and Rule 906.

e.   Pits. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rules 908, 909, and 910.

f.   Closure of Deep Geothermal Facilities. Deep Geothermal Operators will
     comply with Rule 911.

g.   Spill and Releases. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 912.

h.   Site Investigation, Remediation, and Closure. Deep Geothermal Operators
     will comply with Rule 913.

i.   Criteria to Establish Points of Compliance. Deep Geothermal Operators will
     comply with Rule 914.

j.   Concentrations and Sampling for Soil and Groundwater. Deep Geothermal
     Operators will comply with Rule 915.

1318. PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES

a.   Wildlife Plans. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule 1201.

b.   Operating Requirements. Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rule
     1202.

c.   Compensatory Mitigation for Wildlife Resources. Deep Geothermal
     Operators will comply with Rule 1203.

     (1)   For permit applications for Deep Geothermal Operations in which the
           Deep Geothermal Operator requests an exemption from the



                                                                                     557
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            compensatory mitigation requirements of Rule 1203, the consultation
            required between ECMC, CPW, and the Deep Geothermal Operator will
            be conducted as part of the pre-application consultation required by Rule
            1304.e.

1319. RECLAMATION REGULATIONS

Deep Geothermal Operators will comply with Rules 1001-1004.

1320. RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR DEEP GEOTHERMAL
OPERATIONS

a.    Applicability of 500-Series Rules of Practice and Procedure. Deep
      Geothermal Operators are subject to the Rules of Practice of Procedure found at
      Rules 501 - 505 and Rules 507 - 530.

b.    Specific Applicability of Rule 503.g.(10). If the Director determines that there
      are unique circumstances that warrant the permit application for Deep
      Geothermal Operations or Geothermal Resource Units going before the
      Commission for a special hearing, the Director may initiate such a hearing
      pursuant to Rule 503.g.(10).

c.    Specific Applicability of Rule 211 and Rule 503.g.(12).B.

      (1)   Relevant Local Government or Surface Owner Applications to
            Require Plugging and Abandonment of a Deep Geothermal Well or
            Closure of Deep Geothermal Location. For applications by Relevant
            Local Governments or Surface Owners to require Plugging and
            Abandonment a Deep Geothermal Well(s) or closure of a Deep
            Geothermal Location(s) pursuant to Rules 211 and 503.g.(12).B., the
            Relevant Local Government or Surface Owner applicant will comply with
            Rules 503.g.(12).B.i. and iii.

            A.     In addition to the requirements of Rule 503.g.(12).B.i. and iii., the
                   Relevant Local Government or Surface Owner applicant will also
                   certify that the Deep Geothermal Well has been an Inactive Well
                   each year of the previous three years.

      (2)   Time Limit on Used or Useful for Conversion of an Oil and Gas Well
            to a Deep Geothermal Well. For applications filed within two years of the
            effective date of this 1300 Series by Relevant Local Governments or
            Surface Owners to require Plugging and Abandonment of an Oil and Gas
            Well(s) or closure of an Oil and Gas Location(s) pursuant to Rules 211
            and 503.g.(12).B. where the Operator asserts that the Oil and Gas Well(s)
            and/or Oil and Gas Location(s) are Used or Useful because the Operator
            intends to convert the Oil and Gas Well(s) to a Deep Geothermal Well(s),
            there is a rebuttable presumption that the wells will be utilized for Deep
            Geothermal Operations. For such applications pursuant to Rules 211 and



                                                                                       558
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          503.g.(12).B. filed more than two years from the effective date of this 1300
          Series Rules, if the Operator has not filed an application to convert the Oil
          and Gas Well(s) to a Deep Geothermal Well(s), pursuant to Rule 1311,
          there is a rebuttable presumption that the Oil and Gas Well(s) is not Used
          or Useful for Deep Geothermal Operations.




                                                                                   559
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


1400 Series - Class VI UIC

1401. APPLICABILITY

a.    Covered Operations. The Commission’s 1400 Series Rules apply to:

      (1)   Geologic Storage Operations; and

      (2)   Operators of Geologic Storage Science Wells, Geologic Storage
            Monitoring Wells or Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental Injection
            Carbon Dioxide injection projects who seek to apply for a Class VI UIC
            permit for their Well or Wells. Operators seeking to convert existing Class
            I, Class II, or Class V experimental wells to Class VI UIC well must
            demonstrate to the Director that the wells were engineered and
            constructed pursuant to Rule 1416.a and ensure protection of USDWs, in
            lieu of requirements at Rule 1416.b and Rule 1417.a. A converted well
            must still meet all other requirements under the Commission’s 1400 Series
            Rules.

      (3)   Operators of any existing Well or other wellbore not subject to Rule
            1401.a.(2) that seek to apply for a Class VI UIC Permit for their Well or
            Wells. An Operator seeking to convert an existing Well or other wellbore
            must meet all requirements under the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules.

b.    When the Rules Apply. The Commission’s 1400 Series Rules are effective
      upon approval by EPA of the Commission’s application for primacy over Class VI
      UIC Wells pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300h-1.

c.    EPA-Issued Class VI Permits. Upon the effective date of the Commission’s
      1400 Series Rules, Geologic Storage Operations in the State conducted
      pursuant to a valid Class VI UIC Permit issued by EPA will be subject to the
      prospective requirements of these 1400 Series Rules.

      (1)   The Operator, in consultation with the Director, must transfer all necessary
            permit information, financial responsibility, and other items related to the
            Operator’s Geologic Storage Operations approved by EPA to the
            Commission in order to facilitate the Commission’s ongoing regulation of
            such operations. The Director may require any additional information
            reasonable and necessary to regulate such Geologic Storage Operations
            in the format prescribed by the Director.

      (2)   A Geologic Storage Operator will not be required to apply to the
            Commission for authorization to conduct any Geologic Storage Operations
            or related activities for which EPA has issued a valid permit, authorization,
            or other approval.




                                                                                     560
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   EPA-Pending Class VI Permits. Upon the effective date of the Commission’s
     1400 Series Rules, any pending Class VI UIC Well permit applications for which
     EPA has issued a completeness determination but has not yet issued a final
     permitting disposition will be transferred to the Commission. The Director will
     coordinate with EPA and the Geologic Storage Operator to facilitate the efficient
     review of the pending Class VI UIC Well application.

     (1)   Applicants for such transferred permits may seek variance(s) pursuant to
           Rule 502 from requirements of the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules that
           are more stringent than EPA regulations.

1402. IDENTIFICATION OF UNDERGROUND SOURCES OF DRINKING WATER
AND EXEMPTED AQUIFERS

a.   The Commission or the Director may identify (by narrative description,
     illustrations, maps, or other means) and must protect as Underground Sources of
     Drinking Water, all aquifers and parts of aquifers which meet the Commission’s
     100 Series definition of Underground Source of Drinking Water, except to the
     extent there is an applicable aquifer exemption under Rule 1402.b or an
     expansion to the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or
     enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption for the exclusive purpose of Class VI
     injection for Geologic Storage pursuant to Rule 1402.c. Even if an aquifer has not
     been specifically identified by the Director, it is an Underground Source of
     Drinking Water if it meets the definition in the Commission's 100 Series Rules.

b.   The Commission or the Director may identify (by narrative description,
     illustrations, maps, or other means) and describe in geographic and/or geometric
     terms (such as vertical and lateral limits and gradient) which are clear and
     definite, all aquifers or parts thereof which the Director proposes to designate as
     Exempted Aquifers pursuant to Rule 1402.d.

     (1)   No designation of an Exempted Aquifer submitted as part of a UIC
           program will be final until approved by the EPA Regional Administrator as
           part of a UIC program. No designation of an expansion to the areal extent
           of a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer
           exemption for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for Geologic
           Storage will be final until approved by the EPA Regional Administrator as
           a revision to the applicable Federal UIC program under 40 C.F.R. part 147
           or as a substantial revision of an approved State UIC program in
           accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 145.32.

c.   Expansion to the areal extent of existing Class II aquifer exemptions for
     Class VI UIC Wells. Operators of Class II UIC Wells may request that the
     Director approve an expansion to the areal extent of an aquifer exemption
     already in place for a Class II UIC Well for the exclusive purpose of Class VI
     injection for Geologic Storage. Such requests must be treated as a revision to the
     applicable Federal UIC program under 40 C.F.R. part 147 or as a substantial




                                                                                    561
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     revision of an approved State UIC program in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
     145.32.

     (1)   The Operator of a Class II UIC Well that requests an expansion of the
           areal extent of an existing aquifer exemption for the exclusive purpose of
           Class VI injection for Geologic Storage must define (by narrative
           description, illustrations, maps, or other means) and describe in
           geographic and/or geometric terms (such as vertical and lateral limits and
           gradient) that are clear and definite, all aquifers or parts thereof that are
           requested to be designated as exempted pursuant to Rule 1402.d.

     (2)   In evaluating a request to expand the areal extent of an aquifer exemption
           of a Class II UIC Well for the purpose of Class VI injection, the Director
           must determine whether the request meets the criteria for exemptions in
           Rule 1402.c and d. In making the determination, the Director must
           consider:

           A.     Current and potential future use of the USDWs to be exempted as
                  drinking water resources;

           B.     The predicted extent of the injected Carbon Dioxide Plume, and
                  any mobilized Fluids that may result in degradation of water quality,
                  over the lifetime of the Geologic Storage project, as informed by
                  computational modeling performed pursuant to Rule 1414.c.(1), in
                  order to ensure that the proposed injection operation will not at any
                  time endanger USDWs including non-exempted portions of the
                  injection Formation;

           C.     Whether the areal extent of the expanded aquifer exemption is of
                  sufficient size to account for any possible revisions to the
                  computational model during reevaluation of the Geologic Storage
                  Area of Review, pursuant to Rule 1414.e; and

           D.     Any information submitted to support a waiver request made by the
                  Geologic Storage Operator pursuant to Rule 1425, if appropriate.

     (3)   The areal extent of an aquifer exemption for a Class II enhanced oil
           recovery or enhanced gas recovery well may be expanded for the
           exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration pursuant
           to Rule 1402.d.

d.   Criteria for Exempted Aquifers. The Commission or the Director may designate
     an aquifer or a portion thereof which meets the criteria for an Underground
     Source of Drinking Water as an Exempted Aquifer if it meets all requirements of
     40 C.F.R. § 146.4. Only the version of 40 C.F.R. § 146.4 in effect as of the
     effective date of these Rules applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply.
     40 C.F.R. § 146.4 is available for public inspection during normal business hours
     from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120



                                                                                     562
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S.
     Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO
     80202, and is available online at https://www.ecfr.gov/.

1403. REQUIREMENTS FOR GEOLOGIC STORAGE SCIENCE WELLS AND
GEOLOGIC STORAGE MONITORING WELLS

a.   Procedure. A Geologic Storage Operator seeking to drill a Geologic Storage
     Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well must follow the below-
     described process.

     (1)   Pre-application Consultation. The Geologic Storage Operator must
           attend a pre-application consultation with the Director and any Relevant
           and Proximate Local Governments to discuss the siting, scope, and timing
           of proposed operations. CDPHE, DWR, and/or CPW may also be invited
           to attend based on the specifics of the proposed Well and Location.

     (2)   Notice to Relevant and Proximate Local Governments. The Geologic
           Storage Operator must notify any Relevant and Proximate Local
           Governments that it plans to submit a Geologic Storage Science Well
           application or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well application no less than
           30 days prior to submitting the Form 50A.

     (3)   Notice of Completeness and Public Comment. When the Director
           determines that the application for a Geologic Storage Science Well or
           Geologic Storage Monitoring Well is complete, the Director will post the
           application and supporting materials to the Commission’s website. The
           website posting must provide:

           A.     The mechanism for the public to provide comments.

           B.     The date by which public comments must be received to be
                  considered, which is:

                  i.    45 days from the date the permit application for a Geologic
                        Storage Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well is
                        posted if the permit application for a Geologic Storage
                        Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well is within
                        ½ mile of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy
                        Building Unit, or School Facility or within a Disproportionately
                        Impacted Community; and

                  ii.   30 days from the date the permit application for a Geologic
                        Storage Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well
                        was posted for all other permit applications for a Geologic
                        Storage Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well.




                                                                                    563
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Consideration and Approval or Denial. Upon closure of the public
           comment period, the Director will review all public comments prior to
           approval or denial of the Form 50A.

           A.    If appropriate, the Director may administratively issue a conditional
                 approval of the Form 50A.

           B.    The Director will inform the Commission when they issue a
                 conditional approval of a Form 50A.

           C.    The Director’s conditional approval will become final 10 days after
                 the Director issues a conditional approval, unless the Commission
                 stays the conditional approval on its own motion.

           D.    If the Director determines that there are circumstances that warrant
                 the Form 50A going before the Commission for a special hearing,
                 the Director will issue a Director’s Finding pursuant to Rule 1405.f
                 and will work with the applicant to schedule the hearing as soon as
                 possible.

b.   Permit Applications for Geologic Storage Science Wells and Geologic
     Storage Monitoring Wells.

     (1)   The Geologic Storage Operator must submit a Form 50A for the proposed
           surface location.

     (2)   Applicants must submit information per Rules 1405.a.(6).A, 1405.a.(6).F,
           and 1405.a.(8) but may omit the following listed provisions from the permit
           application:

           A.    304.b.(6) - Flowline descriptions;

           B.    304.b.(7).D - Preliminary Process Flow Diagrams;

           C.    304.b.(7).G - Related Location and Flowline Map;

           D.    304.c.(7) - Operations Safety Management Program; and

           E.    304.c.(13) - Fluid Leak Detection Plan.

     (3)   The Geologic Storage Operator’s Form 50A must also include:

           A.    A general description of the timing, duration, and types of tests that
                 may be run in the wellbore for stratigraphic, monitoring, and other
                 scientific purposes; and




                                                                                   564
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     A general description of the reason for the Geologic Storage
                  Science Well or Geologic Storage Monitoring Well and its potential
                  future use.

     (4)   The Geologic Storage Operator must submit a Form 2 that complies with
           Rule 308 after the Director’s Completeness determination has been
           documented for the Form 50A, unless the Relevant Local Government’s
           process requires the approval of the Form 50A prior to submission.

c.   Geologic Storage Monitoring Wells that are also Water Wells.

     (1)   A Geologic Storage Operator must provide to the Director any relevant
           data acquired from a Geologic Storage Monitoring Well, including those
           wells permitted or authorized by DWR.

     (2)   Prior to drilling a Geologic Storage Monitoring Well that may also be a well
           regulated by DWR pursuant to § 37-91-102(16), C.R.S. (2024), the
           Operator must obtain a permit or authorization from the Commission or
           DWR, as determined during pre-application consultation conducted
           pursuant to Rule 1403.a.(1).

d.   Conversion to a Class VI UIC Well. Any Geologic Storage Science Well or
     Geologic Storage Monitoring Well that a Geologic Storage Operator seeks to
     convert to a Class VI UIC Well must comply with the Commission’s Rules at the
     time of submission of the Class VI Development Plan.

1404. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS VI DEVELOPMENT PLAN
APPLICATION, APPROVAL FOR GEOLOGIC STORAGE OPERATIONS

a.   Permit Required - Prohibitions.

     (1)   All Geologic Storage Operations require written approval of the
           Commission, or Director where applicable. Construction and operation of
           a Class VI UIC Well requires an approved Class VI Development Plan.

           A.     A Geologic Storage Operator must complete, sign, and submit an
                  application to the Commission pursuant to the Commission’s 1400
                  Series Rules a reasonable time before construction is planned to
                  begin.

           B.     Any Underground Injection, except into a Well authorized by rule or
                  except as authorized pursuant to an approved Class VI
                  Development Plan, is prohibited. The construction of any Well
                  required to obtain a Class VI Development Plan is prohibited until
                  the Commission has approved the Class VI Development Plan.

     (2)   Prohibitions. No person will:




                                                                                   565
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          A.    Discharge into, construct, operate, or modify any Class VI UIC Well
                unless permitted pursuant to the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules;

          B.    Discharge or inject to any zone except the authorized Injection
                Zone as described in the permit;

          C.    Conduct any injection activity in a manner that results in a violation
                of any permit condition or that conflicts with any representations
                made in a permit application;

          D.    Construct, operate, maintain, convert, plug, abandon, or conduct
                any other injection activity in a manner that allows the movement of
                Fluid containing any Contaminant into Underground Sources of
                Drinking Water, if the presence of that Contaminant may cause a
                violation of any primary drinking water regulation contained in 40
                C.F.R. § 141, Subparts E, F, and G, or may otherwise adversely
                affect human health, safety, or the environment. Only the version of
                40 C.F.R. § 141, Subparts E, F, and G in effect as of the effective
                date of these 1400-Series Rules applies to this Rule; later
                amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 141 is available for public
                inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
                Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street,
                Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental
                Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO
                80202, and is available online at
                https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-
                11/documents/howepargulates_cfr-2003-title40-vol20-
                part141_0.pdf.

                i.     If any water quality monitoring of an Underground Source of
                       Drinking Water indicates the movement of any contaminant
                       from a Class VI UIC Well into the Underground Source of
                       Drinking Water, except as authorized under 40 C.F.R. § 146,
                       the Director will prescribe such additional requirements for
                       construction, Class VI Corrective Action, operation,
                       monitoring, or reporting (including closure of the Injection
                       Well) as are necessary to prevent such movement. These
                       additional requirements will be imposed by modifying the
                       permit pursuant to Rule 1413.d, or the permit may be
                       terminated pursuant to Rule 1413.f if cause exists, or
                       appropriate enforcement action may be taken if the permit
                       has been violated. Only the version of 40 C.F.R. § 146 in
                       effect as of the effective date of these Rules applies to this
                       Rule; later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 146 is
                       available for public inspection during normal business hours
                       from the Public Room Administrator at the office of the
                       Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver,



                                                                                   566
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection
                        Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202,
                        and is available online at https://www.ecfr.gov/.

                 ii.    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rule 1404, the
                        Director may take emergency action upon receipt of
                        information that a Contaminant which is present in or likely to
                        enter a public water system or Underground Source of
                        Drinking Water may present an imminent and substantial
                        endangerment to the health of persons.

           E.    Construct, operate or maintain any non-experimental Class V
                 Geologic Storage well.

b.   Waiver of Requirement by Commission.

     (1)   When injection does not occur into, through, or above an Underground
           Source of Drinking Water, the Commission may authorize a Well or
           Geologic Storage Facility with less stringent requirements for Geologic
           Storage Area of Review, construction, mechanical integrity, operation,
           monitoring, and reporting than required in Rules 1414, 1416, 1418, 1419,
           1420, and 1421 to the extent that the reduction in requirements will not
           result in an increased risk of movement of fluids into an Underground
           Source of Drinking Water.

     (2)   When injection occurs through or above an Underground Source of
           Drinking Water, but the radius of endangering influence when computed
           under 40 C.F.R. § 146.6(a) is smaller or equal to the radius of the Well,
           the Commission may authorize a Well or Geologic Storage Facility with
           less stringent requirements for operation, monitoring, and reporting than
           required Rules 1418, 1420, and 1421 to the extent that the reduction in
           requirements will not result in an increased risk of movement of fluids into
           an Underground Source of Drinking Water. Only the version of 40 C.F.R. §
           146.6(a) in effect as of the effective date of these Rules applies to this
           Rule; later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 146.6.6(a) is available
           for public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
           Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
           801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection
           Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available
           online at https://www.ecfr.gov/.

     (3)   When reducing requirements under Rule 1404.b.(1) or (2), the Director
           must prepare a fact sheet pursuant to Rule 1405.c.(7) explaining the
           reasons for the action.

c.   Approval. The Commission may approve, following notice and a Commission
     hearing, an application for a Class VI Development Plan that:




                                                                                   567
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Complies with all requirements of the Commission’s Rules and the Act;

     (2)   Complies with the Relevant Local Government’s siting disposition, if any,
           of the proposed Location;

     (3)   Avoids, minimizes, and mitigates adverse impacts to public health, safety,
           welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources, including Cumulative
           Impacts; and

     (4)   Will not have negative net Cumulative Impacts on any Disproportionately
           Impacted Community pursuant to Rule 1410.d.

d.   Conditions of Approval. The Commission may add any conditions to the
     approval of a Class VI Development Plan that it determines are necessary and
     reasonable to ensure compliance with the requirements of Rule 1404.c.

e.   Denial. The Commission will deny any application for a Class VI Development
     Plan that does not meet the requirements of Rule 1404.c. The Commission will
     identify in the record the basis for the denial.

f.   Stay. If the Commission determines that additional information or analysis is
     necessary for it to make a decision to approve or deny a Class VI Development
     Plan application, it may stay consideration of the application.

g.   Additional Information. The Director or Commission may request any
     information necessary and reasonable to make a final determination of approval
     or denial on any permit application before the Commission. In such information
     requests, the Director or Commission will provide the reason(s) for the request
     and a reasonable timeframe for the applicant to provide the information.

h.   Effect of a Permit

     (1)   Compliance with a permit during its term constitutes compliance with Part
           C of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. However, a
           permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated during its
           term for cause pursuant to Rule 1413. For purposes of enforcement, a
           Geologic Storage Operator must also comply with the Act and the
           Commission’s Rules.

     (2)   The issuance of a permit does not convey any property rights of any sort,
           or any exclusive privilege.

     (3)   The issuance of a permit does not authorize any injury to persons or
           property or invasion of other private rights, or any infringement of State or
           local law or regulations.




                                                                                     568
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1405. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS VI DEVELOPMENT PLAN
APPLICATIONS

a.   Components of a Class VI Development Plan Application. Prior to
     commencing construction or operation of a Class VI UIC Well, a Geologic
     Storage Operator must have an approved Class VI Development Plan. A
     Geologic Storage Operator must submit to the Commission the following, as
     applicable:

     (1)   An application with the Hearings Unit for a hearing on the proposed Class
           VI Development Plan, pursuant to Rule 503.g.(13). If the Class VI
           Development Plan includes a Geologic Storage Unit, the Class VI
           Development Plan will include an application for and request for hearing
           on the proposed Geologic Storage Unit(s) pursuant to Rules 1427 &
           503.g.(14);

     (2)   Form 50A, Class VI Location Permit Application;

     (3)   Form 50-Intent, Application for Class VI Permit to Drill;

     (4)   Form 50B, Class VI Cumulative Impacts Evaluation;

     (5)   Form 51-Intent, Class VI Injection Facility Permit Application; and

     (6)   Information Requirements and Plans. All Class VI Development Plans
           must include the following information and plans:

           A.     Local Government Siting Information. The Geologic Storage
                  Operator must submit to the director certification that:

                  i.     The Relevant Local Government does not regulate the siting
                         of Geologic Storage Locations;

                  ii.    The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of
                         Geologic Storage Locations, and has approved the siting of
                         the proposed Geologic Storage Location; or

                  iii.   The Relevant Local Government regulates the siting of
                         Geologic Storage Locations, and has denied the siting of the
                         proposed Geologic Storage Location.

           B.     Alternative Location Analysis conducted pursuant to Rule 304.b.(2);

           C.     Cumulative Impacts Analysis conducted pursuant to Rule 315;

           D.     All permit information required pursuant to Rule 1407;

           E.     A Seismicity Evaluation pursuant to Rule 1420.l;




                                                                                  569
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           F.    Information pursuant to Rule 304.b.(3)–(14) and Plans pursuant to
                 Rule 304.c.(1)–(7), (9)–(10), (13)–(18), and (20).

                 i.     The Director may accept substantially equivalent information
                        or plans developed through a Local Government land use
                        process or federal environmental analysis in lieu of any of
                        the information or plans required by Rule 1405.a.(6).F
                        pursuant to Rule 304.f.

           G.    Community Outreach Plan. For any Class VI Development Plan
                 with a Geologic Storage Location proposed within ½ mile of a
                 Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, or School
                 Facility, or within 1 mile of a Building Unit within a
                 Disproportionately Impacted Community, the Geologic Storage
                 Operator must submit a Community Outreach Plan pursuant to
                 Rule 304.c.(19). In addition to satisfying the requirements of Rule
                 304.c.(19), the Geologic Storage Operator must:

                 i.     Conduct community outreach regarding the Testing and
                        Monitoring Plan required by Rule 1420 and the Emergency
                        and Remedial Response Plan required by Rule 1424 and
                        provide a forum for the public to provide input on such plans.

           H.    Substantially Equivalent Information. The Geologic Storage
                 Operator may submit substantially equivalent information or plans
                 developed through a Local Government land use process, a federal
                 agency permitting or leasing process, or as part of an application
                 for a Geologic Storage Science Well or Geologic Storage
                 Monitoring Well pursuant to Rule 1403 in lieu of providing
                 information or plans required by Rule 1405.a.(6).A-C, E, F & G.
                 Nothing in this Rule 1405.a.(6).H precludes the Director or
                 Commission from requiring the Geologic Storage Operator to
                 submit information or plans otherwise required by Rule
                 1405.a.(6).A-C, E, F & G because the Director or Commission
                 determines that the information or plans developed pursuant to a
                 Local Government land use process, a federal agency permitting or
                 leasing process, or Rule 1403 are not equivalent or that updated
                 information or plans are necessary in light of changed
                 circumstances.

     (7)   Any proposed Class VI Injection Depth waiver sought pursuant to Rule
           1425; and

     (8)   Any other relevant information that the Director determines is necessary
           and reasonable to determine whether the application meets the
           Commission’s Rules and protects and minimizes adverse impacts to
           public health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. The




                                                                                   570
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Director will provide the Geologic Storage Operator with the reason for the
           request in writing.

b.   Signatories and Certification.

     (1)   All applications for a Class VI Development Plan and related permits must
           be signed as follows:

           A.     For a corporation: by a responsible corporate officer. For the
                  purpose of this Rule 1405.c.(1).A, a responsible corporate officer
                  means;

                  i.     A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the
                         corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any
                         other person who performs similar policy- or decision-making
                         functions for the corporation; or



                  ii.    The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
                         operating facilities employing more than 250 persons or
                         having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25
                         million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign
                         documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager
                         in accordance with corporate procedures.

           B.     For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or the
                  proprietor, respectively; or

           C.     For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: by either
                  a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For purposes
                  of this Rule 1405.c.(1).C, a principal executive officer of a Federal
                  agency includes:

                  i.     The chief executive officer of the agency, or

                  ii.    A senior executive officer having responsibility for the overall
                         operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g.,
                         EPA Regional Administrator).

     (2)   Changes to authorization. If an authorization pursuant to Rule 1405.b.(1)
           is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has
           responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization
           satisfying the requirements of Rule 1405.b.(1) must be submitted to the
           Director prior to or together with any reports, information, or applications to
           be signed by an authorized representative.




                                                                                      571
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (3)   Certification. Any person signing a document pursuant to Rule 1405.b.(1)
           & (2) must make the following certification: “I certify under penalty of law
           that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction
           or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that
           qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
           submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the
           system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
           information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
           belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
           penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
           and imprisonment for knowing violations.”

c.   Completeness Determination. After all required components of the Class VI
     Development Plan application have been submitted, the Director will review the
     application materials to determine if they are complete. The Director will not
     begin the processing of an Application until the Applicant has fully complied with
     the application requirements for that permit.

     (1)   Prior to issuing a completeness determination, the Director will:

           A.     Conduct a full review of the application to determine whether the
                  application complies with the Act and the Commission’s Rules;

           B.     Ensure that consultations with all entities listed in Rule 1406.d have
                  been completed; and

           C.     Confer with the Applicant regarding input received during such
                  consultations and any resulting changes to the application.

     (2)   To be deemed complete, the application must:

           A.     Include all components required by Rule 1405.a, including all
                  applicable plans and attachments;

           B.     Contain all information necessary for the Director to issue the
                  Director’s Findings pursuant to Rule 1405.f; and

           C.     Address any issues raised by the Director or any consulting parties
                  pursuant to Rule 1406.d.

     (3)   If the proposed Class VI Development Plan Application is complete, the
           Director will issue a completeness determination to the Geologic Storage
           Operator via electronic mail and post the Pending Class VI Development
           Plan on the Commission’s website. A completeness determination does
           not constitute approval or denial of a Class VI Development Plan, nor
           does it convey any rights to conduct any surface-disturbing activities.




                                                                                    572
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   If the Director determines that an application is incomplete, the Director
           will notify the Geologic Storage Operator in writing of any such
           inadequacies. The Geologic Storage Operator will have 90 days from the
           date that it was contacted to correct or provide requested information,
           otherwise all components of the application may be considered withdrawn.
           When, in the Director's discretion, the requested information requires
           further data collection or other actions from the Geologic Storage
           Operator, the Director may specify a response time longer than 90 days.

     (5)   At any time, before or after the Director makes a completeness
           determination, the Director or the Commission may request any relevant
           information necessary and reasonable to make a final determination of
           approval or denial on a Class VI Development Plan. The Geologic Storage
           Operator must provide any requested information before the Commission
           makes a final decision to approve or deny the Class VI Development Plan.

     (6)   The Director will submit the completeness determination, Pending Class
           VI Development Plan, and fact sheet to the Hearings Unit, where they will
           be part of the record before the Commission on the Class VI Development
           Plan application.

     (7)   Fact Sheet. When the Director makes a completeness determination, the
           Director will prepare and post to the Commission’s website a fact sheet
           that briefly sets forth the principal facts and the significant factual, legal,
           methodological, and policy questions considered in reviewing the
           application. The Director will send this fact sheet to the applicant and, on
           request, to any other person.

           A.     The fact sheet must include, when applicable:

                  i.     A brief description of the type of facility or activity which is
                         the subject of the application;

                  ii.    The type and quantity of wastes, Fluids, or pollutants which
                         are proposed to be or are being treated, stored, disposed of,
                         injected, emitted, or discharged;

                  iii.   A brief summary of the basis for the proposed permit
                         conditions including references to applicable statutory or
                         regulatory provisions;

                  iv.    Reasons why any requested variances or alternatives to
                         required standards do or do not appear justified;

                  v.     A description of the procedures for reaching a final decision
                         on the application including:




                                                                                        573
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                         aa.   The beginning and ending dates of the comment
                               period pursuant to Rule 1406.c and mechanism for
                               providing comments;

                         bb.   Procedures for submitting public comment at the
                               hearing on the Class VI Development Plan and the
                               nature of that hearing; and

                         cc.   Any other procedures by which the public may
                               participate in the final decision.

                  vi.    Name and telephone number of a person to contact for
                         additional information.

d.   Revisions to a Class VI Development Plan Application.

     (1)   At any time prior to the Director making a completeness determination, the
           Operator may request changes to its Class VI Development Plan
           application or provide additional or different information by contacting the
           Director.

     (2)   After the Director makes a completeness determination, the Operator may
           only make material changes to its Pending Class VI Development Plan
           with the Director’s approval, which may require re-noticing the application
           pursuant to Rules 1406.b and 503.g.(13), preparation of an updated Fact
           Sheet pursuant to Rule 1405.c.(7), and reopening the public review and
           consultation period pursuant to Rule 1406.c. Changes that would be
           considered minor modifications pursuant to Rule 1413.c are not material
           changes.

e.   Confidentiality. If the Operator designates any portion of its Class VI
     Development Plan application as “confidential” pursuant to Rule 223, then the
     Director will post only the redacted version when the application is posted.

f.   Director’s Findings

     (1)   When the Director May Issue Findings. The Director will not issue
           findings to the Commission about any Class VI Development Plan until:

           A.     The Director has fully reviewed the Pending Class VI Development
                  Plan and all supporting application materials and has obtained all
                  information necessary to evaluate the proposed operation and its
                  potential impacts on public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
                  and wildlife resources, including Cumulative Impacts;

           B.     The public comment period has ended, and the Director has
                  considered all substantive public comments received, including




                                                                                     574
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  comments from the Relevant Local Government(s) or Proximate
                  Local Government(s); and

           C.     The Director determines that the Operator has provided an
                  adequate demonstration of financial responsibility as required by
                  Rule 1415 for both the proposed Class VI Development Plan and
                  all existing Geologic Storage Facilities owned by the Operator.

     (2)   Director’s Findings. The Director’s Findings will address:

           A.     Whether the proposed Geologic Storage Operations comply with
                  the technical requirements of the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules;

           B.     Whether the proposed surface location(s) comply with the siting
                  requirements of Rule 1411;

           C.     The extent to which the proposal avoids, minimizes, and mitigates
                  Cumulative Impacts pursuant to Rule 1410; and

           D.     Any other information that, in the Director’s opinion, would aid the
                  Commission in making a determination on the application.

           E.     For termination pursuant to rule 1413, the Director’s Findings will
                  detail why it is necessary and reasonable to terminate the Permit
                  pursuant to Rule 1413.f.

     (3)   Conditions of Approval.

           A.     The Director may recommend that the Commission add conditions
                  to any approval that are necessary and reasonable to protect and
                  minimize adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
                  environment, and wildlife resources, including Cumulative Impacts.

           B.     For any Pending Class VI Development Plan that includes
                  proposed surface locations that have been approved by the federal
                  agency or agencies, the Director will consider environmental
                  analyses and federal stipulations and conditions of approval before
                  recommending any additional conditions of approval.

g.   Commission Hearing. A Class VI Development Plan application may only be
     approved, denied, or approved with conditions of approval following a public
     hearing held by the Commission pursuant to the Commission’s 500 Series and
     1400 Series Rules.

1406. NOTICE, CONSULTATION, AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION FOR CLASS VI
DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATIONS

a.   Pre-Application Procedure.



                                                                                    575
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Prior to submitting a Class VI Development Plan application, a Geologic
           Storage Operator must:

           A.    Conduct a pre-application meeting pursuant to Rule 301.f.(3) or
                 Rule 301.g.(1); and

           B.    Hold a pre-application community meeting pursuant to Rule
                 301.g.(2);

     (2)   Prior to an Operator submitting a Class VI Development Plan application,
           the Geologic Storage Operator and the Director must consult with the
           Southern Ute Indian Tribe or Ute Mountain Ute Tribe for any Class VI
           Development Plan application in which:

           A.    The Geologic Storage Operator proposes to include Indian Lands
                 within the Geologic Storage Area of Review; or

           B.    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe or Ute Mountain Ute Tribe finds that
                 the Class VI Development Plan may impact tribal minerals and/or
                 Pore Space, or may adversely affect other tribal resources.

b.   Notice.

     (1)   Who Receives Notice. The Geologic Storage Operator must provide the
           notices of an application for a Class VI Development Plan described in
           Rule 1406.b.(2) to:

           A.    Surface Owners and the owners and tenants of Residential Building
                 Units and High Occupancy Building Units within ½ mile of any
                 Working Pad Surface included in the Class VI Development Plan,
                 or within 4,000 feet of any Working Pad Surface included in the
                 Class VI Development Plan if the Building Unit is within a
                 Disproportionately Impacted Community. Notice to tenants may be
                 accomplished by sending the notice to the residences addressed to
                 “Current Resident”;

           B.    Mineral owners, Sequestration Estate owners, and Geothermal
                 Resource owners with recorded ownership interests within the
                 Geologic Storage Area of Review;

           C.    The Relevant Local Government(s) in which the proposed Geologic
                 Storage Location(s) are located;

           D.    Any Local Government with land use authority within ½ mile of the
                 Working Pad Surface for the proposed Geologic Storage
                 Location(s) or overlying the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

           E.    The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;



                                                                                   576
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

          F.    The Safe Drinking Water Program Manager at the Water Quality
                Control Division of CDPHE;

          G.    The Colorado Division of Water Resources;

          H.    The U.S. Bureau of Land Management, if any federal entity is a
                mineral owner or Sequestration Estate owner within the Geologic
                Storage Area of Review;

          I.    The Southern Ute Indian Tribe and/or the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe
                when:

                i.     The Geologic Storage Operator proposes to include Indian
                       Lands within the Geologic Storage Area of Review; or

                ii.    The Class VI Development Plan may impact tribal minerals
                       and/or Pore Space, or may adversely affect other tribal
                       resources, including where a Geologic Storage Location is
                       proposed within the Brunot Area.

          J.    The State Land Board, if the State Land Board is a mineral or
                Sequestration Estate owner within the Geologic Storage Area of
                Review;

          K.    All Schools, Child Care Centers, and School Governing Bodies
                located within ½ mile of the Working Pad Surface of the proposed
                Class VI UIC Well(s);

          L.    Police, fire departments, emergency service agencies, and first
                responder agencies responsible for ensuring public safety in all
                areas within ½ mile of the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

          M.    The administrator of any Public Water System that operates:

                i.     A Surface Water Supply Area as defined by Rule 411.a.(1).B
                       that is located within ½ mile of the proposed Geologic
                       Storage Area of Review;

                ii.    A groundwater under the direct influence of surface water
                       (“GUDI”) Public Water System supply well within ½ mile of
                       the proposed Geologic Storage Area of Review; or

                iii.   A Public Water System supply well completed in a Type III
                       Aquifer within ½ mile of the proposed Geologic Storage Area
                       of Review.

          N.    All consulting entities listed in Rule 1406.d.




                                                                                   577
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           O.    Any other agency which the Director knows has issued or is
                 required to issue a permit for the same facility or activity, pursuant
                 to:

                 i.     Section 6 C.C.R. § 1007-3 of the Colorado Hazardous
                        Waste Act, § 25-15-101, et seq., and the Resource
                        Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.;

                 ii.    The Underground Injection Control Program of the Safe
                        Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.;

                 iii.   The State Air Act, §§ 25-7-101-1309, C.R.S., and the Clean
                        Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7401 et seq.;

                 iv.    National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES),
                        33 U.S.C. § 1342;

                 v.     Section 402 and 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§
                        1342 and 1344, and the Colorado Water Quality Control Act,
                        §§ 25-8-101 through 803; or

                 vi.    Sludge Management Program, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; and

           P.    The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the State
                 Historic Preservation Officers or Tribal Historic Preservation
                 Officers for any State or Tribe within the Geologic Storage Area of
                 Review;

     (2)   Timing and Content of Notices. A Geologic Storage Operator must
           provide the following notices of a Class VI Development Plan application:

           A.    Notice of completeness. The Geologic Storage Operator must
                 provide notice of the Director’s completeness determination to the
                 parties listed in Rule 1406.b.(1) and attendees of the pre-
                 application community meeting who provided an electronic mail
                 address pursuant to Rule 301.g.(2).B.iii. within 7 days of the
                 Director posting the completeness determination and Pending
                 Class VI Development Plan to the Commission’s website. The
                 notice must include:

                 i.     The Geologic Storage Operator’s contact information,
                        including its electronic mail address, phone number, and
                        physical address(es) to which the public may direct
                        questions and comments;

                 ii.    The contact information for the Relevant Local Government;




                                                                                     578
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                iii.    The Commission’s website, address, main telephone
                        number, and a contact person at the Commission from
                        whom interested persons may obtain further information;

                iv.     An executive summary of the proposal, including:

                        aa.   The anticipated date that each phase of operations
                              will commence (by quarter and year);

                        bb.   How many Wells and Locations are proposed;

                        cc.   A description of each operational phase of
                              development and what to expect during each phase;

                        dd.   Proposed haul routes and traffic volume associated
                              with each phase of operations; and

                        ee.   A brief description of the business conducted at the
                              Geologic Storage Facility or activity described in the
                              Class VI Development Plan application;

                v.      A map showing the location of the proposed Geologic
                        Storage Facility;

                vi.     The Commission’s information sheet about the procedural
                        steps involved with the Director’s and Commission’s review
                        of Class VI Development Plans;

                vii.    The Commission’s information sheet about the
                        Commission’s public comment process and the relevant
                        deadlines;

                viii.   The Commission’s information sheet about the
                        completeness review process;

                ix.     The Commission’s information sheet about how the public
                        may view the Pending Class VI Development Plan on the
                        Commission’s website and view the status of the application;

                x.      Information on how the public may learn more details about
                        and ask questions about the Pending Class VI Development
                        Plan prior to the closure of the public comment period;

                xi.     The Fact Sheet prepared pursuant to Rule 1405.c.(7);

                xii.    Any additional information that the Director considers
                        necessary or proper.




                                                                                  579
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    Notice of Director’s Findings. Upon completing their Director’s
                 Findings on a Pending Class VI Development Plan, the Director will
                 post the written basis for the Director’s Findings on the
                 Commission’s website and file their Findings with the Hearings
                 Unit. The Operator must notify, in a manner determined by the
                 Director, the parties listed in Rule 1406.b.(1), any person or entity
                 that has provided a comment pursuant to Rule 1406.c, and any
                 person or entity that provided an electronic mail address to the
                 Director and requested to be notified about the proposed Geologic
                 Storage Operations during a pre-application community meeting
                 pursuant to Rule 301.g or post-completeness community meeting
                 pursuant to Rule 309.c .The notice must include:

                 i.     The Director’s Findings;

                 ii.    If a hearing has been scheduled, the time and date of the
                        hearing on the Class VI Development Plan. If a hearing has
                        not yet been scheduled, information on how the public may
                        access the Commission’s hearing schedule;

                 iii.   Information on how the public may make written or oral
                        public comments at the Commission hearing on the
                        application; and

                 iv.    Any additional information that the Director considers
                        necessary or proper.

           C.    Notice of Hearing. The Operator must provide notice of the
                 Commission hearing on the application pursuant to Rule 504. Such
                 notice must include, at a minimum:

                 i.     Reference to the date of previous public notices relating to
                        the permit;

                 ii.    Date, time, and place of the hearing;

                 iii.   A brief description of the nature and purpose of the hearing,
                        including the applicable rules and procedures; and

                 iv.    Any additional information that the Director considers
                        necessary or proper.

     (3)   Procedure for Providing Notice. Notices required pursuant to Rule
           1406.b.(2).A, B, and C must be delivered by one of the following
           mechanisms:

           A.    Hand delivery, with confirmation of receipt;




                                                                                  580
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    Certified mail, return-receipt requested;

           C.    Electronic mail, with electronic receipt confirmation; or

           D.    By other delivery service with receipt confirmation.

     (4)   The Operator must provide all written information required by this Rule
           1406.b in all languages spoken by 5% or more of the population in all
           census block groups within ½ mile of each proposed Class VI UIC Well
           within the Class VI Development Plan.

     (5)   Affidavit. The Geologic Storage Operator must provide to the Director a
           notarized affidavit providing assurance that notice of the Pending Class VI
           Development Plan has been provided pursuant to this Rule 1406.b. The
           affidavit must include, at a minimum, how notice was provided and to
           whom.

c.   Public Review and Comment

     (1)   Upon issuing a completeness determination, the Director will post to the
           Commission’s website the Pending Class VI Development Plan
           components and supporting materials, including the fact sheet prepared
           pursuant to Rule 1405.c.(7). The website posting must provide:

           A.    The date by which public comments must be received to be
                 considered, which is:



                 i.     60 days from the date the Pending Class VI Development
                        Plan was posted if the application includes any proposed
                        Geologic Storage Locations with a Working Pad Surface
                        within 4,000 feet of a Residential Building Unit, High
                        Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
                        Center within a Disproportionately Impacted Community;

                 ii.    45 days from the date the Pending Class VI Development
                        Plan was posted if the application includes any proposed
                        Geologic Storage Locations:

                        aa.    With a Working Pad Surface within ½ mile of a
                               Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building
                               Unit, School Facility, or Child Care Center that is not
                               within a Disproportionately Impacted Community; or

                        bb.    Within a Disproportionately Impacted Community; and




                                                                                    581
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  iii.   30 days from the date the Pending Class VI Development
                         Plan was posted for all other Class VI Development Plan
                         applications; and

           B.     The mechanism(s) for the public to provide comments.

     (2)   The Director will post public comments on the Commission’s website.

     (3)   The Director may extend or reopen the comment period for up to an
           additional 30 days if the Director determines an extension or reopening is
           reasonable and necessary in order to obtain public input.

     (4)   If a Geologic Storage Operator makes material changes to the Pending
           Class VI Development Plan based on input received from the public, the
           Director may require additional notice of the revised application and/or
           reopen public comment to obtain further input on the revised application.

     (5)   In addition to the public comment period in Rule 1406.c.(1).A, the
           Commission will allow any person to submit public comments for
           consideration at the hearing on the application in a form and manner
           determined by the Commission.

     (6)   At the time that any final permit decision is issued, the Director will issue a
           response to comments. This response will:

           A.     Specify which provisions, if any, of the Pending Class VI
                  Development Plan have been changed in the final permit decision,
                  and the reasons for the change; and

           B.     Briefly describe and respond to all substantive comments on the
                  Pending Class VI Development Plan raised during the public
                  comment period, or during any public hearing; and

           C.     Be made available to the public.

d.   Consultations.

     (1)   Consultations required by this Rule 1406.d., must occur prior to the
           completeness determination described at Rule 1405.c.

     (2)   The Geologic Storage Operator must seek consultation with:

           A.     The Relevant Local Government(s);

           B.     All Proximate Local Governments;

           C.     U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, if a Location is proposed within
                  federally listed habitats/species;




                                                                                      582
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.     Public Water System Administrators, if notice is required pursuant
                  to Rule 1406.b.(1);

           E.     Colorado State Land Board, if a proposed surface location is
                  located on State Land Board-managed land or if there are State
                  Land Board-managed Geologic Storage Resources or minerals
                  within the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

           F.     The Bureau of Land Management and/or U.S. Forest Service, if the
                  Class VI Development Plan application proposes to use federally
                  managed surface or Geologic Storage Resources; and

           G.     Any resident (including owners, agents, or tenants) of a Residential
                  Building Unit or High Occupancy Building Unit if a proposed
                  Location’s Working Pad Surface is within ½ mile of that Building
                  Unit.

     (3)   The Director will request consultation with:

           A.     CDPHE;

           B.     CPW; and

           C.     All Local Governments whose boundaries include land overlying
                  the Geologic Storage Facility.

e.   Post-Completeness Community Meeting. If any Building Units are within ½
     mile of the proposed Working Pad Surface of any Geologic Storage Location in
     the Pending Class VI Development Plan, or if any Residential Building Units,
     High Occupancy Building Units, School Facilities, or Child Care Centers within a
     Disproportionately Impacted Community are located within 4,000 feet of the
     proposed Working Pad Surface of any Geologic Storage Location in the Pending
     Class VI Development Plan, the Operator must hold a post-completeness
     community meeting pursuant to Rule 309.c.

f.   Record of Hearing. A video or audio recording or written transcript of the public
     hearing on the Pending Class VI Development Plan will be made available to the
     public.

1407. REQUIRED CLASS VI PERMIT INFORMATION

a.   This Rule 1407 sets forth the information which will be considered by the
     Commission in determining whether to approve or deny a Class VI Development
     Plan application. For converted Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental wells,
     certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the Geologic Storage
     Area of Review and other data may be included in the application by reference
     provided they are current, readily available to the Commission, and sufficiently
     identified to be retrieved.



                                                                                   583
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   Prior to the issuance of a permit for the construction of a new Class VI UIC Well
     or the conversion of an existing Class I, Class II, or Class V well to a Class VI
     UIC Well, the Geologic Storage Operator must submit, and the Commission must
     consider, the following:

     (1)   Information required pursuant to Rule 1407.f;

     (2)   A map showing the Injection Well for which a permit is sought and the
           applicable Geologic Storage Area of Review consistent with Rule 1414.
           Within the Geologic Storage Area of Review, the map must show the
           number or name, and location of all Injection Wells, producing Wells,
           Abandoned Wells, plugged Wells or dry holes, deep stratigraphic
           boreholes, State- or EPA-approved subsurface cleanup sites, surface
           bodies of water, springs, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries, water
           wells, other pertinent surface features including structures intended for
           human occupancy, State, Tribal, and Territory boundaries, and roads. The
           map should also show Faults, if known or suspected. Only information of
           public record is required to be included on this map;

     (3)   Information on the geologic structure and hydrogeologic properties of the
           proposed Geologic Storage Facility and overlying or underlying
           Formations, including:

           A.     Maps and cross sections of the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

           B.     The location, orientation, and properties of known or suspected
                  Faults and fractures that may transect the Confining Zone(s) in the
                  Geologic Storage Area of Review and a determination that they
                  would not interfere with containment;

           C.     Data on the depth, areal extent, thickness, mineralogy, porosity,
                  permeability, and capillary Pressure of the Injection and Confining
                  Zone(s), including geology/facies changes based on field data
                  which may include geologic cores, outcrop data, seismic surveys,
                  well logs, and names and lithologic descriptions;

           D.     Geomechanical information on fractures, stress, ductility, rock
                  strength, and in situ Fluid Pressures within the Confining Zone(s);

           E.     Information on the seismic history including the presence and depth
                  of seismic sources and a determination that the seismicity would
                  not interfere with containment; and

           F.     Geologic and topographic maps and cross sections illustrating
                  regional geology, hydrogeology, and the geologic structure of the
                  local area.




                                                                                   584
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)    A tabulation of all Wells within the Geologic Storage Area of Review which
            penetrate the Injection or Confining Zone(s). Such data must include a
            description of each Well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth,
            record of plugging and/or completion, and any additional information the
            Commission may require;

     (5)    Maps and stratigraphic cross sections indicating the general vertical and
            lateral limits of all USDWs, water wells and springs within the Geologic
            Storage Area of Review, their positions relative to the Injection Zone(s),
            and the direction of water movement, where known;

     (6)    Baseline geochemical data on subsurface Formations, including all
            USDWs in the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

     (7)    Proposed operating data for the proposed Geologic Storage Facility:

            A.     Average and maximum daily rate and volume and/or mass and total
                   anticipated volume and/or mass of the Carbon Dioxide Stream;

            B.     Average and maximum injection Pressure;

            C.     The source(s) of the Carbon Dioxide Stream; and

            D.     An analysis of the chemical and physical characteristics of the
                   Carbon Dioxide Stream.

     (8)    Proposed pre-operational Formation testing program to obtain an analysis
            of the chemical and physical characteristics of the Injection Zone(s) and
            Confining Zone(s) and that meets the requirements of Rule 1417;

     (9)    Proposed well stimulation program, a description of stimulation Fluids to
            be used and a determination that well stimulation will not interfere with
            containment;

     (10)   Proposed procedure to outline steps necessary to conduct injection
            operation;

     (11)   Schematics or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface
            construction details of the Well;

     (12)   Injection Well construction procedures that meet the requirements of Rule
            1416;

     (13)   Proposed Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class VI Corrective
            Action plan that meets the requirements of Rule 1414;

     (14)   A demonstration, satisfactory to the Commission, that the applicant has
            met the financial responsibility requirements of Rule 1415;




                                                                                     585
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (15)   Proposed testing and monitoring plan pursuant to Rule 1420;

     (16)   Proposed Injection Well Plugging plan pursuant to Rule 1422.b;

     (17)   Proposed Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan pursuant to Rule
            1423.a;

     (18)   Proposed demonstration and timeframe for Site Closure pursuant to Rule
            1423.c.;

     (19)   Proposed Emergency and Remedial Response Plan pursuant to Rule
            1424.a;

     (20)   A list of contacts, submitted to the Commission, for those States, Tribes,
            and Territories identified to be within the Geologic Storage Area of Review
            of the Geologic Storage Facility based on information provided in Rule
            1407.b.(2); and

     (21)   Any other information requested by the Commission.

c.   The Director must notify, in writing, any States, Tribes, Territories, or Local
     Governments within the Geologic Storage Area of Review of the proposed
     Geologic Storage Facility based on information provided in Rule 1407.b.(2) &
     (20) of the permit application and pursuant to Rule 1406.b.

d.   Prior to granting Authorization to Inject pursuant to Rule 1418.a for a Class VI
     UIC Well, the Director must consider the following information:

     (1)    The final Geologic Storage Area of Review based on modeling, using data
            obtained during logging and testing of the well and the Formation pursuant
            to Rule 1407.d.(2), (3), (4), (6), (7) & (10);

     (2)    Any relevant updates, based on data obtained during logging and testing
            of the well and the Formation pursuant to Rule 1407.d.(3), (4), (6), (7), and
            (10) of this section, to the information on the geologic structure and
            hydrogeologic properties of the proposed storage site and overlying
            Formations, submitted pursuant to Rule 1407.b.(3);

     (3)    Information on the compatibility of the Carbon Dioxide Stream with Fluids
            in the Injection Zone(s) and minerals in both the Injection and the
            Confining Zone(s), based on the results of the Formation testing program,
            and with the materials used to construct the Well;

     (4)    The results of the Formation testing program pursuant to Rule 1407.b.(8);

     (5)    Final Injection Well construction procedures pursuant to Rule 1416;




                                                                                        586
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)    The status of Class VI Corrective Action on Wells in the Geologic Storage
            Area of Review;

     (7)    All available logging and testing program data on the Well pursuant to
            Rule 1417;

     (8)    A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to Rule 1419;

     (9)    Any updates to the proposed Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class
            VI Corrective Action plan, testing and monitoring plan, Injection Well
            Plugging plan, Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan, or the
            Emergency and Remedial Response Plan submitted pursuant to Rule
            1407.b, which are necessary to address new information collected during
            logging and testing of the Well and the Formation as required Rule 1407,
            and any updates to the proposed demonstration and timeframe for Site
            Closure submitted pursuant to Rule 1407.b, which are necessary to
            address new information collected during the logging and testing of the
            Well and the Formation as required Rule 1407; and

     (10)   Any other information requested by the Director or Commission.

e.   Geologic Storage Operators seeking a waiver of the requirement to inject below
     the lowermost USDW must also refer to Rule 1425 and submit a supplemental
     report pursuant to Rule 1425.a. The supplemental report is not part of the permit
     application.

f.   A complete application for a Class VI UIC Permit must also include:

     (1)    The activities conducted by the applicant which require it to obtain permits
            pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq., 42 U.S.C. 1421 et seq., 33 U.S.C. §
            1342, or 42 U.S.C. 7470 et seq.

     (2)    Name, mailing address, and location of the Geologic Storage Facility for
            which the application is submitted.

     (3)    Up to four SIC codes which best reflect the principal products or services
            provided by the Geologic Storage Facility.

     (4)    The operator's name, address, telephone number, ownership status, and
            status as Federal, State, private, public, or other entity.

     (5)    Whether the Geologic Storage Facility is located on Indian Lands.

     (6)    A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for
            under any of the following programs:




                                                                                         587
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

              A.     The Colorado Hazardous Waste Act, § 25-15-101, et seq., C.R.S.,
                     and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §
                     6901 et seq.;

              B.     UIC program of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f et
                     seq.;

              C.     State pollutant discharge program under the Clean Water Act, 33
                     U.S.C. § 1342, and the Colorado Water Quality Control Act, §§ 25-
                     8-101 through 803, C.R.S.;

              D.     Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the
                     Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7470 et seq.;

              E.     Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7501 et
                     seq.;

              F.     National Emission Standards for Hazardous Pollutants (NESHAPS)
                     preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7412;

              G.     Dredge and fill activities under the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §
                     1344, and the Colorado Water Quality Control Act, §§ 25-8-101
                     through 803, C.R.S.; or

              H.     Other relevant environmental permits, including State permits.

1408. CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL PERMITS

The following conditions apply to all permits for Class VI UIC Wells. All conditions
applicable to all permits will be incorporated into the permits either expressly or by
reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to this Rule 1408 must be
given in the permit.

a.     Duty to comply. The Geologic Storage Operator must comply with all conditions
       of this permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Safe
       Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq., and is grounds for enforcement
       action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for
       denial of a permit renewal application.

b.     Duty to reapply. If the Geologic Storage Operator wishes to continue an activity
       regulated by this permit after the expiration date of this permit, the Geologic
       Storage Operator must apply for and obtain a new permit.

c.     Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense. It will not be a defense for a
       Geologic Storage Operator in an enforcement action that it would have been
       necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance
       with the conditions of this permit.




                                                                                         588
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   Duty to mitigate. The Geologic Storage Operator must take all reasonable steps
     to minimize or correct any adverse impact on the environment resulting from
     noncompliance with this permit.

e.   Proper operation and maintenance. The Geologic Storage Operator must at all
     times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and
     control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the Geologic
     Storage Operator to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper
     operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate funding,
     adequate operator staffing and training, and adequate laboratory and process
     controls, including appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision
     requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only
     when necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit.

f.   Permit actions. This permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or
     terminated for cause pursuant to Rule 1413. The filing of a request by the
     Geologic Storage Operator for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance,
     or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated
     noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.

g.   Property rights. This permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or
     any exclusive privilege.

h.   Duty to provide information. The Geologic Storage Operator must furnish to
     the Commission or the Director, within a time specified, any information which
     the Commission or the Director may request to determine whether cause exists
     for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit, or to determine
     compliance with this permit. The Geologic Storage Operator must also furnish to
     the Commission or the Director, upon request, copies of records required to be
     kept by this permit.

i.   Inspection and entry. The Geologic Storage Operator must allow the Director,
     or an authorized representative, to:

     (1)   Enter upon the Geologic Storage Operator premises where a regulated
           facility or activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept
           under the conditions of this permit;

     (2)   Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be
           kept under the conditions of this permit;

     (3)   Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring
           and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required
           under this permit; and

     (4)   Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring
           permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by the Safe Drinking Water




                                                                                    589
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Act, 42 U.S.C. § 300f et seq., any substances or parameters at any
           location.

j.   Monitoring and records.

     (1)   Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring must be
           representative of the monitored activity.

     (2)   The Geologic Storage Operator must retain records of all monitoring
           information, including the following:

           A.    Calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart
                 recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all
                 reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to
                 complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least 5
                 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, or
                 application. This period may be extended by request of the Director
                 at any time; and

           B.    The nature and composition of all injected Fluids until 5 years after
                 the completion of any plugging and abandonment procedures
                 specified under Rules 1409.b and 1422. The Director may require
                 the Geologic Storage Operator to deliver the records to the Director
                 at the conclusion of the retention period. Records of monitoring
                 information must include:

                 i.     The date, exact place, and time of sampling or
                        measurements;

                 ii.    The individual(s) who performed the sampling or
                        measurements;

                 iii.   The date(s) analyses were performed;

                 iv.    The individual(s) who performed the analyses;

                 v.     The analytical techniques or methods used; and

                 vi.    The results of such analyses.

     (3)   Geologic Storage Operators must retain records as specified in the
           Commission’s 1400 Series Rules, including Rule 1414.g, Rule 1421.f,
           Rule 1422.d, Rule 1423.f, and Rule 1423.h.

k.   Reporting requirements.




                                                                                  590
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Planned changes. The Geologic Storage Operator must give notice to
           the Director as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or
           additions to the permitted facility.

     (2)   Anticipated noncompliance. The Geologic Storage Operator must give
           advance notice to the Director of any planned changes in the permitted
           facility or activity which may result in noncompliance with permit
           requirements.

     (3)   Transfers. This permit is not transferable to any person except after
           notice to the Director. The Director may require modification or revocation
           and reissuance of the permit to change the name of the permittee and
           incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary pursuant to
           Rule 1413.e.

     (4)   Monitoring reports. Monitoring results must be reported at the intervals
           specified elsewhere in this permit and the Commission’s 1400 Series
           Rules.

     (5)   Compliance schedules. Reports of compliance or noncompliance with,
           or any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in
           any compliance schedule of this permit must be submitted no later than 30
           days following each schedule date.

     (6)   Twenty-four hour reporting. The Geologic Storage Operator must report
           any noncompliance which may endanger public health, safety, welfare, the
           environment, or wildlife resources, including:

           A.    Any monitoring or other information which indicates that any
                 Contaminant may cause an endangerment to a USDW; or

           B.    Any noncompliance with a permit condition or malfunction of the
                 injection system which may cause Fluid migration into or between
                 USDWs.

           C.    The Geologic Storage Operator must provide information orally
                 within 24 hours from the time the Geologic Storage Operator
                 becomes aware of the circumstances. The Geologic Storage
                 Operator must also provide a written submission within 5 days of
                 the time the Geologic Storage Operator becomes aware of the
                 circumstances. The written submission must contain a description
                 of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance,
                 including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not
                 been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
                 steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
                 reoccurrence of the noncompliance.




                                                                                   591
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (7)   Other noncompliance. The Geologic Storage Operator must report all
           instances of noncompliance not reported pursuant to Rule 1408.k.(4)-(6)
           at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports must contain the
           information listed in Rule 1408.k.(6).

     (8)   Other information. Where the Geologic Storage Operator becomes
           aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a Class VI Development
           Plan application, or submitted incorrect information in a Class VI
           Development Plan application or in any report to the Director or the
           Commission, it must promptly submit such facts or information.

l.   Requirements for Authorization to Inject. A new Class VI UIC Well may not
     commence injection until construction is complete, and:

     (1)   The Geologic Storage Operator has submitted notice of completion of
           construction to the Director; and

     (2)   The Director has inspected or otherwise reviewed the new Injection Well
           and finds it is in compliance with the conditions of the permit.

m.   The Geologic Storage Operator must notify the Director at such times as the
     permit requires before conversion or abandonment of the Well.

n.   A Class VI permit must include conditions which meet the requirements of Rule
     1422. Where the plan meets the requirements of Rule 1422, the Director will
     incorporate it into the permit as a permit condition. For purposes of this
     paragraph, temporary or intermittent cessation of injection operations is not
     abandonment.

o.   Duty to establish and maintain mechanical integrity.

     (1)   The Geologic Storage Operator must establish mechanical integrity prior
           to commencing injection or on a schedule determined by the Director.
           Thereafter the Geologic Storage Operator must maintain mechanical
           integrity pursuant to Rule 1419. If the Director determines that a Class VI
           UIC Well lacks mechanical integrity pursuant to Rule 1419, they must give
           written notice of their determination to the Geologic Storage Operator.
           Unless the Director requires immediate cessation, the Geologic Storage
           Operator must cease injection into the Class VI UIC Well within 48 hours
           of receipt of the Director's determination. The Director may allow plugging
           of the well pursuant to Rules 1422 or require the Geologic Storage
           Operator to perform such additional construction, operation, monitoring,
           reporting, and Class VI Corrective Action as is necessary to prevent the
           movement of Fluid into or between USDWs caused by the lack of
           mechanical integrity. The Geologic Storage Operator may resume
           injection upon written notification from the Director that the Geologic
           Storage Operator has demonstrated mechanical integrity pursuant to Rule
           1419.



                                                                                   592
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

p.   Recording and reporting of monitoring results. All permits must specify:

     (1)   Requirements concerning the proper use, maintenance, and installation,
           when appropriate, of monitoring equipment or methods (including
           biological monitoring methods when appropriate);

     (2)   Required monitoring including type, intervals, and frequency sufficient to
           yield data which are representative of the monitored activity including
           continuous monitoring, when appropriate; and

     (3)   Applicable reporting requirements based upon the impact of the regulated
           activity and as specified in the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules.
           Reporting must be no less frequent than specified in the above
           regulations.

1409. ESTABLISHING PERMIT CONDITIONS

a.   In addition to conditions required in all permits pursuant to Rule 1408, the
     Commission or the Director will establish conditions in permits as required on a
     case-by-case basis, to provide for and assure compliance with all applicable
     requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Act, and the Commission’s
     Rules.

     (1)   An applicable requirement is a State statutory or regulatory requirement
           which takes effect prior to final administrative disposition of the permit. An
           applicable requirement is also any requirement which takes effect prior to
           the modification or revocation and reissuance of a permit, to the extent
           allowed pursuant to Rule 1413.

     (2)   New or reissued permits, and to the extent allowed pursuant to Rule 1413
           modified or revoked and reissued permits, must incorporate each of the
           applicable requirements referenced in this Rule 1409.

b.   Plugging and Abandonment. After a cessation of operations, for a maximum
     two years, the Geologic Storage Operator must plug and abandon the well or
     apply to convert the well to a Geologic Storage Monitoring Well in accordance
     with the plan submitted pursuant to Rule 1422 unless the Geologic Storage
     Operator:

     (1)   Provides notice to the Director; and

     (2)   Describes actions or procedures, satisfactory to the Director, that the
           Geologic Storage Operator will take to ensure that the well will not
           endanger USDWs during the period of temporary abandonment. These
           actions and procedures must include compliance with the technical
           requirements applicable to active injection wells unless waived by the
           Director.




                                                                                      593
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Mechanical Integrity. A permit for any Class VI UIC Well which lacks
     mechanical integrity must include a condition prohibiting injection operations until
     the permittee shows to the satisfaction of the Director pursuant to Rule 1419 that
     the well has mechanical integrity.

d.   Schedule of Compliance. A Class IV UIC permit may, when appropriate,
     specify a schedule of compliance leading to compliance with the Safe Drinking
     Water Act, the Act, and the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules.

     (1)    Time for compliance. Any schedules of compliance must require
            compliance as soon as possible, and in no case later than 3 years after
            the effective date of the permit.

     (2)    Interim dates. Except as provided in Rule 1409.d.(2).B, if a permit
            establishes a schedule of compliance which exceeds 1 year from the date
            of permit issuance, the schedule must set forth interim requirements and
            the dates for their achievement.

            A.     The time between interim dates must not exceed 1 year.

            B.     If the time necessary for completion of any interim requirement is
                   more than 1 year and is not readily divisible into stages for
                   completion, the permit will specify interim dates for the submission
                   of reports of progress toward completion of the interim
                   requirements and indicate a projected completion date.

     (3)    Reporting. The permit must be written to require that if Rule 1409.d.(2) is
            applicable, progress reports be submitted no later than 30 days following
            each interim date and the final date of compliance.

e.   Additional conditions. The Commission or the Director will impose on a case-
     by-case basis such additional conditions as are necessary to prevent the
     migration of fluids into Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

f.   Incorporation. All permit conditions must be incorporated either expressly or by
     reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to the applicable
     regulations or requirements must be given in the permit.

1410. CUMULATIVE IMPACTS AND DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED
COMMUNITIES

a.   Prior to approving a Class VI Development Plan, the Commission will review an
     Operator’s Alternative Location Analysis prepared pursuant to Rule 1405.a.(6).B
     and Cumulative Impacts Analysis prepared pursuant to Rule 1405.a.(6).C to
     determine whether the Class VI Development Plan adequately evaluates and
     addresses Cumulative Impacts. In making this determination, the Commission
     will consider:




                                                                                     594
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)    The Area of Evaluation used, whether Disproportionately Impacted
            Communities will be affected by the proposed Class VI Development Plan,
            and how that determination was made;

     (2)    If the Working Pad Surface of a proposed Oil and Gas Location is within
            1/2 mile of a Residential Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit,
            School Facility, or Child Care Center within a Disproportionately Impacted
            Community, the information required pursuant to Rule 315.b.(2).D.iv;

     (3)    Any actions taken by the Geologic Storage Operator to first avoid adverse
            Cumulative Impacts;

     (4)    Any actions taken by the Geologic Storage Operator to minimize adverse
            Cumulative Impacts that could not be avoided;

     (5)    Any actions taken by the Geologic Storage Operator, including mitigation
            measures or measures agreed to in any applicable community benefit
            agreement(s), to mitigate adverse Cumulative Impacts that could not be
            avoided or minimized;

     (6)    A narrative describing any adverse Cumulative Impacts that the Operator
            determines would result from approval of the Class VI Development Plan;

     (7)    Any beneficial Cumulative Impacts that would result from approval of the
            Class VI Development Plan;

     (8)    How the Operator engaged with and involved nearby residents and
            businesses in planning the proposed Geologic Storage Operations and
            any associated mitigation measures;

     (9)    Any public comments or other input provided by members of the public
            and the Operator’s response to such comments;

     (10)   A narrative explanation as to how no alternative location is available that
            would better avoid or minimize adverse Cumulative Impacts;

     (11)   The Relevant Local Government’s consideration or disposition of a land
            use permit for the location;

     (12)   Results of meetings and consultations conducted pursuant to Rule 1406.a,
            d & e;

     (13)   The Geologic Storage Operator’s record of compliance with the Act and
            Commission Rules; and

     (14)   Any other information the Commission deems relevant to evaluating the
            Cumulative Impacts of the Class VI Development Plan.




                                                                                     595
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   If the Commission determines that the application does not adequately evaluate
     or address Cumulative Impacts, the Commission may require any conditions of
     approval that are determined to be necessary and reasonable to adequately
     evaluate and address Cumulative Impacts, or it may deny the application.

c.   Upon approval of a Class VI Development Plan, the Commission will provide a
     plain language summary of how any negative Cumulative Impacts are avoided,
     or if not avoided, how they are minimized, and if not avoided or minimized, how
     they are mitigated, and why any unmitigated adverse Cumulative Impacts should
     be accepted.

d.   No Negative Net Cumulative Impacts on a Disproportionately Impacted
     Community.

     (1)   Applicability. This Rule 1410.d applies to any proposed Geologic Storage
           Location with a Working Pad Surface within ½ mile of a Residential
           Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, or Child Care
           Center within a Disproportionately Impacted Community.

     (2)   The Commission will weigh the potential adverse and beneficial impacts to
           public health and the environment of the proposed Class VI Development
           Plan, including any related mitigation projects and community benefit
           agreements, on the Disproportionately Impacted Community to make a
           qualitative determination of whether the proposed Geologic Storage
           Operations will have negative net Cumulative Impacts on a
           Disproportionately Impacted Community.

     (3)   The Commission order approving or denying an application for a Class VI
           Development Plan subject to this Rule 1410.d will include a plain language
           summary of the Commission’s determination regarding the net Cumulative
           Impacts of the Class VI Development Plan on a Disproportionately
           Impacted Communities.

     (4)   The Commission will deny any application for a Class VI Development
           Plan that would have negative net Cumulative Impacts on a
           Disproportionately Impacted Community.

1411. MINIMUM CRITERIA FOR SITING

a.   A Geologic Storage Operator must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
     Commission that the Well(s) will be sited in areas with a suitable geologic
     system. The Geologic Storage Operator must demonstrate that the geologic
     system comprises:

     (1)   An Injection Zone(s) of sufficient areal extent, thickness, porosity, and
           permeability to receive the total anticipated volume of the Carbon Dioxide
           Stream. Unless approved by the Director, Injection Zones will not be




                                                                                   596
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            permitted within 300 feet in a vertical dimension from the top of any
            Precambrian basement formation; and

     (2)    Confining Zone(s) free of Transmissive Faults or fractures and of sufficient
            areal extent and integrity to contain the injected Carbon Dioxide Stream
            and displaced Formation Fluids and allow injection at proposed maximum
            Pressures and volumes without initiating or propagating fractures in the
            Confining Zone(s).

b.   The Director may require Geologic Storage Operators to identify and
     characterize additional zones that will impede vertical Fluid movement, are free
     of Faults and fractures that may interfere with containment, allow for Pressure
     dissipation, and provide additional opportunities for monitoring, mitigation, and
     remediation.

c.   A Class VI UIC Well must not be located within 2,000 feet of a Residential
     Building Unit, High Occupancy Building Unit, School Facility, Child Care Center,
     or Commercial Building Unit.

d.    A Geologic Storage Operator must receive the consent of any surface owner(s)
     of the land where the surface disturbance will occur. The Geologic Storage
     Operator must provide to the Commission a written contractual agreement
     executed by the surface owner(s) demonstrating such consent.

1412. PERMIT REVIEW AND EXPIRATION

a.   Permits for Class VI UIC Wells will be issued for the operating life of the Geologic
     Storage Facility and extend through the Post-Injection Site Care period pursuant
     to Rule 1423.

b.   The Director must review each issued Class VI UIC Well Permit and its
     Authorization to Inject at least once every 5 years to determine whether it should
     be modified, revoked and reissued, terminated or a minor modification made
     pursuant to Rule 1413.

c.   The Director may issue any Permit for a duration that is less than the full
     allowable term under this Rule 1412.

1413. MODIFICATION, REVOCATION, REISSUANCE, TERMINATION, AND
TRANSFER OF PERMITS

a.   Permits Subject to Review by Commission. Permits may be modified, revoked
     and reissued, or terminated at the request of any Affected Person determined
     pursuant to Rule 507 (including the Geologic Storage Operator) or upon the
     Director's or Commission’s initiative. All requests to modify, revoke, reissue, or
     terminate a permit must be in writing and must contain facts or reasons
     supporting the request. The Commission or the Director may modify, revoke and
     reissue, or terminate permits only for the reasons specified in this Rule 1413.



                                                                                     597
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   When the Commission or the Director receives any information (for example,
     inspects the Geologic Storage Facility, receives information submitted by the
     permittee as required in the permit pursuant to Rule 1408, receives a request for
     modification or revocation and reissuance pursuant to Rule 1413, or conducts a
     review of the permit file) the Commission or the Director may determine whether
     or not one or more of the causes listed in Rule 1413.d for modification or
     revocation and reissuance or both exist. If cause exists, the Commission or the
     Director may modify or revoke and reissue the permit accordingly, subject to the
     limitations of Rule 1413.d, and may require an updated application if necessary.

     (1)    When a permit is modified, only the conditions subject to modification are
            reopened.

     (2)    If a permit is revoked and reissued, the entire permit is reopened and
            subject to revision and the permit is reissued for a new term.

     (3)    If cause does not exist under this Rule 1413, the Director will not modify or
            revoke and reissue the permit.

     (4)    If a permit modification satisfies the criteria in Rule 1413.c the permit may
            be modified without posting the proposed modified permit for public
            review. Otherwise, the Geologic Storage Operator must submit an
            application for the modified or revoked and reissued permit, and all
            procedures in Rules 1405.d–f and 1406.a.(1), 1406.a.(2).C–E, 1406.b,
            and 1406.c must be followed.

c.   Minor Modifications. Upon the consent or request of the Operator, the Director
     may modify a permit to make the corrections or allowances for changes in the
     permitted activity listed in this section, without following the procedures of Rules
     1405 and 1406. Minor modifications may only:

     (1)    Correct typographical errors;

     (2)    Require more frequent monitoring or reporting by the permittee;

     (3)    Change an interim compliance date in a schedule of compliance, provided
            the new date is not more than 120 days after the date specified in the
            existing permit and does not interfere with attainment of the final
            compliance date requirement;

     (4)    Allow for a change in ownership or operational control of a facility where
            the Director determines that no other change in the permit is necessary,
            provided that a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of
            permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between the current and new
            permittees has been submitted to the Director;

     (5)    Change quantities or types of Fluids injected which are within the capacity
            of the facility as permitted and, in the judgment of the Director, would not



                                                                                      598
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            interfere with the operation of the facility or its ability to meet conditions
            described in the permit and would not change its classification;

     (6)    Change construction requirements approved by the Director pursuant to
            Rule 1416, provided that any such alteration must comply with the
            requirements of the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules;

     (7)    Amend a plugging and abandonment plan which has been updated
            pursuant to Rule 1409.b; or

     (8)    Amend a Class VI UIC Well testing and monitoring plan, plugging plan,
            Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan, or Emergency and
            Remedial Response Plan where the modifications merely clarify or correct
            the plan, as determined by the Director.

d.   Modification or Revocation and Reissue. The Commission or the Director may
     modify, or revoke and reissue, an approved Class VI Development Plan under
     the conditions listed in this Rule 1413.d or at the request of the Operator. If the
     Commission or the Director determines that it is necessary and reasonable to
     modify or revoke and reissue a Permit, the Operator must submit the appropriate
     form(s) or Application to the Director. Suitability of the facility location will not be
     considered at the time of permit modification or revocation and reissuance unless
     new information or standards indicate that a threat to human health or the
     environment exists which was unknown at the time of permit issuance. Criteria
     for Permit modification or revocation and reissue include but are not limited to:

     (1)    Alterations. There are material and substantial alterations or additions to
            the permitted Geologic Storage Facility or Operations which occurred after
            permit issuance which justify the application of permit conditions that are
            different or absent in the existing permit.

     (2)    Information. The Director has received information that was not available
            at the time of permit issuance (other than revised regulations, guidance, or
            test methods) and would have justified the application of different permit
            conditions at the time of issuance.

     (3)    New regulations. The standards or regulations on which the permit was
            based have been changed by promulgation of new or amended standards
            or regulations or by judicial decision after the permit was issued.

     (4)    Compliance schedules. The Director determines good cause exists for
            modification of a compliance schedule, such as an act of God, strike,
            flood, or materials shortage or other events over which the permittee has
            little or no control and for which there is no reasonably available remedy.

     (5)    Whenever the Director determines that permit changes are necessary
            based on:




                                                                                         599
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     Geologic Storage Area of Review reevaluations pursuant to Rule
                  1414;

           B.     Any amendments to the testing and monitoring plan pursuant to
                  Rule 1420.j;

           C.     Any amendments to the Injection Well Plugging plan pursuant to
                  Rule 1422.c;

           D.     Any amendments to the Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure
                  plan pursuant to Rule 1423.a.(3);

           E.     Any amendments to the Emergency and Remedial Response Plan
                  pursuant to Rule 1424.d; or

           F.     A review of monitoring and/or testing results conducted in
                  accordance with permit requirements.

     (6)   Cause exists for termination pursuant to Rule 1413.f, and the Director
           determines that modification or revocation and reissuance is appropriate.

     (7)   The Director has received notification pursuant to Rule 1413.c.(4) of a
           proposed transfer of the permit.

     (8)   A determination that the waste being injected is a hazardous waste as
           defined in 40 C.F.R § 261.3 either because the definition has been
           revised, or because a previous determination has been changed.

e.   Transfer of Permits. A Permit may be transferred by the Operator to a new
     Geologic Storage Operator only if the permit has been modified or revoked and
     reissued pursuant to Rule 1413.d, or a minor modification made pursuant to Rule
     1413.c, to identify the new permittee and incorporate such other requirements as
     may be necessary under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Act, and the
     Commission’s Rules. When a permittee proposes to transfer a permit subject to
     the Commission’s 1400 Series Rules, whether through Rule 1413.c. or Rule
     1413.d., the Geologic Storage Operator must provide notice of its intent to
     transfer the permit to Sequestration Estate owner(s) impacted by the permit and
     the Surface Owners of the land on which the Geologic Storage Location(s) and
     Facilities are located. Such notice must comply with the provisions of Rule
     1406.b.(3). If the proposed transfer necessitates a Commission hearing, the
     transferee must also provide notice pursuant to Rule 1406.b.(2).C.

     (1)   For transfers of ownership, the Geologic Storage Operator must use the
           Form 9 and provide appropriate information outlined in Rule 218,
           information required by Rule 1413.e., and other necessary and reasonable
           information required by the Director.




                                                                                     600
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.   Termination. The Commission may terminate a permit during its term, or deny a
     permit renewal application for the following causes:

     (1)   Noncompliance by the permittee with any condition of the permit;

     (2)   The permittee's failure in the application or during the permit issuance
           process to disclose fully all relevant facts, or the permittee's
           misrepresentation of any relevant facts at any time; or

     (3)   A determination that the permitted activity endangers human health or the
           environment and can only be regulated to acceptable levels by permit
           modification or termination.

g.   Procedure

     (1)   Minor Modification. The Operator must provide the information
           supporting a minor modification pursuant to Rule 1413.c in the form
           requested by the Director. Minor modifications pursuant to Rule 1413.c
           are not subject to the requirements of Rule 1413.g.(2).

     (2)   Modification or Revocation and Reissuance. If the Director tentatively
           decides to modify or revoke and reissue a permit, they will make public
           pursuant to Rule 1405.c the complete application for a modified or
           revoked and reissued permit incorporating the proposed changes.

           A.     The Director may require additional information and, in the case of
                  a modified Permit, may require the submission of an updated
                  application.

           B.     In the case of a revoked and reissued Permit, the Director will
                  require the submission of a new application.

           C.     Administrative Approval of Modified Permits. The Director may
                  administratively issue a conditional approval of a modified Permit.

                  i.     The Director will inform the Commission when they issue a
                         conditional approval of a modified Permit.

                  ii.    The Director’s conditional approval will become final 10 days
                         after the Director issues a conditional approval, unless the
                         Commission stays the conditional approval on its own
                         motion.

                  iii.   If the Director determines that there are circumstances that
                         warrant the modified Permit going before the Commission for
                         a special hearing, the Director will issue a Director’s Finding
                         pursuant to Rule 1405.f and will work with the applicant to
                         schedule the hearing as soon as possible.



                                                                                      601
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.     Commission Approval of Revoked and Reissued Permits. A
                  Class VI UIC Well Permit may only be revoked and reissued
                  following a Commission hearing.

     (3)   In a permit modification pursuant to Rule 1413, only those conditions to be
           modified will be reopened when a new modified permit is prepared. All
           other aspects of the existing Permit will remain in effect for the duration of
           the unmodified permit. When a Permit is revoked and reissued pursuant to
           Rule 1413, the entire Permit is reopened just as if the Permit had expired
           and was being reissued. During any revocation and reissuance
           proceeding the Operator must comply with all conditions of the existing
           Permit until a new final permit is reissued.

     (4)   Termination.

           A.     If the Director finds it necessary and reasonable to terminate a
                  permit pursuant to Rule 1413.f, they will issue a recommendation to
                  terminate. The recommendation to terminate must include:

                  i.     Director’s Findings issued pursuant to Rule 1405.f.(2).E; and

                  ii.    A copy of the Permit.

           B.     The Director will provide notice of the recommendation to terminate
                  to the Operator and other notice parties pursuant to Rule 1406.b.
                  The Director will also post the recommendation to terminate on the
                  Commission’s website.

           C.     The Director’s recommendation to terminate will be subject to the
                  public comment provisions of Rule 1406.c., which public comment
                  period will begin on the day the Director issues the
                  recommendation to terminate.

           D.     A Permit may only be terminated following a Commission hearing.

1414. GEOLOGIC STORAGE AREA OF REVIEW AND CLASS VI CORRECTIVE
ACTION

a.   The Geologic Storage Area of Review is the region surrounding the Geologic
     Storage Facility where USDWs may be endangered by the injection activity. The
     Geologic Storage Area of Review is delineated using computational modeling
     that accounts for the physical and chemical properties of all phases of the
     injected Carbon Dioxide Stream and is based on available site characterization,
     monitoring, and operational data.

b.   A Geologic Storage Operator must prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan to
     delineate the Geologic Storage Area of Review for a proposed Geologic Storage
     Facility, periodically reevaluate the delineation, and perform Class VI Corrective



                                                                                     602
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     Action that meets the requirements of this Rule 1414 and is acceptable to the
     Director. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly
     enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
     As a part of the permit application for approval by the Commission, the Geologic
     Storage Operator must submit an Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class VI
     Corrective Action Plan that includes the following information:

     (1)   The method for delineating the Geologic Storage Area of Review that
           meets the requirements of Rule 1414.c, including the model to be used,
           assumptions that will be made, and the site characterization data on which
           the model will be based;

     (2)   A description of:

           A.     The minimum fixed frequency, not to exceed five years, at which
                  the Geologic Storage Operator proposes to reevaluate the Geologic
                  Storage Area of Review;

           B.     The monitoring and operational conditions that would warrant a
                  reevaluation of the Geologic Storage Area of Review prior to the
                  next scheduled reevaluation as determined by the minimum fixed
                  frequency established in Rule 1414.b.(2).A;

           C.     How monitoring and operational data (e.g., injection rate and
                  Pressure) will be used to inform an Geologic Storage Area of
                  Review reevaluation; and

           D.     How Class VI Corrective Action will be conducted to meet the
                  requirements of Rule 1414.d, including what Class VI Corrective
                  Action will be performed prior to injection and what, if any, portions
                  of the Geologic Storage Area of Review will have Class VI
                  Corrective Action addressed on a phased basis and how the
                  phasing will be determined; how Class VI Corrective Action will be
                  adjusted if there are changes in the Geologic Storage Area of
                  Review; and how site access will be guaranteed for future Class VI
                  Corrective Action.

c.   Geologic Storage Operators must perform the following actions to delineate the
     Geologic Storage Area of Review and identify all wells that require Class VI
     Corrective Action:

     (1)   Predict, using existing site characterization, monitoring and operational
           data, and computational modeling, the projected lateral and vertical
           migration of the Carbon Dioxide Plume and Formation Fluids in the
           subsurface from the commencement of injection activities until site closure
           is approved pursuant to Rule 1423.c. The model must:




                                                                                     603
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           A.     Be based on detailed geologic data collected to characterize the
                  Injection Zone(s), Confining Zone(s) and any additional zones; and
                  anticipated operating data, including injection Pressures, rates, and
                  total volumes over the proposed life of the Geologic Storage
                  Operations;

           B.     Take into account any geologic heterogeneities, other
                  discontinuities, data quality, and their possible impact on model
                  predictions; and

           C.     Consider potential migration through Faults, fractures, and artificial
                  penetrations.



     (2)   Using methods approved by the Director, identify all penetrations,
           including active and abandoned Wells and underground mines, in the
           Geologic Storage Area of Review that may penetrate the Confining
           Zone(s). Provide a description of each Well's type, construction, date
           drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and/or completion, and any
           additional information the Director may require; and

     (3)   Determine which abandoned Wells in the Geologic Storage Area of
           Review have been plugged in a manner that prevents the movement of
           Injection Carbon Dioxide or other Fluids that may endanger USDWs,
           including use of materials compatible with the Carbon Dioxide Stream.

d.   Geologic Storage Operators must perform Class VI Corrective Action on all Wells
     in the Geologic Storage Area of Review that are determined by the Director to
     need Class VI Corrective Action, using methods designed to prevent the
     movement of Fluid into or between USDWs, including use of materials
     compatible with the Carbon Dioxide Stream, where appropriate.

e.   At the minimum fixed frequency, not to exceed five years, as specified in the
     Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class VI Corrective Action Plan, or when
     monitoring and operational conditions warrant, Geologic Storage Operators must:

     (1)   Reevaluate the Geologic Storage Area of Review in the same manner
           specified in Rule 1414.c.(1);

     (2)   Identify all Wells in the reevaluated Geologic Storage Area of Review that
           require Class VI Corrective Action in the same manner specified in Rule
           1414.c;

     (3)   Perform Class VI Corrective Action on Wells requiring Class VI Corrective
           Action in the reevaluated Geologic Storage Area of Review in the same
           manner specified in Rule 1414.d; and




                                                                                      604
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Submit an amended Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class VI
           Corrective Action Plan or demonstrate to the Director through monitoring
           data and modeling results that no amendment to the Geologic Storage
           Area of Review and Class VI Corrective Action Plan is needed. Any
           amendments to the Geologic Storage Area of Review and Class VI
           Corrective Action Plan must be approved by the Director, must be
           incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification
           requirements Rule 1413, as appropriate.

f.   The Emergency and Remedial Response Plan pursuant to Rule 1424 and the
     demonstration of financial responsibility pursuant to Rule 1415 must account for
     the Geologic Storage Area of Review delineated as specified in Rule 1414.c.(1)
     or the most recently evaluated Geologic Storage Area of Review delineated
     under Rule 1414.e, regardless of whether or not Class VI Corrective Action in the
     Geologic Storage Area of Review is phased.

g.   All modeling inputs and data used to support Geologic Storage Area of Review
     reevaluations under Rule 1414.e must be retained for 10 years.

1415. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

a.   The Geologic Storage Operator must demonstrate and maintain financial
     responsibility as determined by the Director or the Commission that meets the
     following conditions:

     (1)   The financial responsibility instrument(s) used must be from the following
           list of qualifying instruments:

           A.     Irrevocable Trust Funds with government-backed securities;

           B.     Surety Bonds;

           C.     Public Liability Insurance Policy;

           D.     Cash;

           E.     Escrow Account; or

           F.     Any other instrument(s) satisfactory to the Director.

     (2)   The qualifying instrument(s) must be sufficient to cover the cost of:

           A.     Class VI Corrective Action pursuant to Rule 1414;

           B.     Injection Well Plugging pursuant to Rule 1422;

           C.     Post injection site care and Site Closure pursuant to Rule 1423;
                  and




                                                                                     605
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.     Emergency and remedial response pursuant to Rule 1424.

     (3)   The financial responsibility instrument(s) must be sufficient to address
           endangerment of Underground Sources of Drinking Water.

     (4)   The qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) must comprise
           protective conditions of coverage.

           A.     Protective conditions of coverage must include at a minimum
                  cancellation, renewal, and continuation provisions, specifications on
                  when the provider becomes liable following a notice of cancellation
                  if there is a failure to renew with a new qualifying financial
                  instrument, and requirements for the provider to meet a minimum
                  rating, minimum capitalization, and ability to pass the bond rating
                  when applicable.

                  i.     Cancellation. For purposes of this part, a Geologic Storage
                         Operator must provide that their financial mechanism may
                         not cancel, terminate, or fail to renew except for failure to
                         pay such financial instrument. If there is a failure to pay the
                         financial instrument, the financial institution may elect to
                         cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the instrument by sending
                         notice by certified mail to the Geologic Storage Operator and
                         the Director. The cancellation must not be final for 120 days
                         after receipt of cancellation notice by the Director. The
                         Geologic Storage Operator must provide an alternate
                         financial responsibility demonstration within 60 days of
                         notice of cancellation, and if an alternate financial
                         responsibility demonstration is not acceptable (or possible),
                         any funds from the instrument being canceled must be
                         released within 60 days of notification by the Director.

                  ii.    Renewal. For purposes of this part, Geologic Storage
                         Operators must renew all financial instruments, if an
                         instrument expires, for the entire term of the Geologic
                         Storage Operations. The instrument may be automatically
                         renewed as long as the Geologic Storage Operator has the
                         option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring
                         instrument. The automatic renewal of the instrument must, at
                         a minimum, provide the holder with the option of renewal at
                         the face amount of the expiring financial instrument.

                  iii.   Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur
                         and the financial instrument must remain in full force and
                         effect in the event that on or before the date of expiration:

                         aa.    The Director deems the facility abandoned;




                                                                                      606
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        bb.    The permit is terminated or revoked or a new permit is
                               denied;

                        cc.    Closure is ordered by the Director or a U.S. district
                               court or other court of competent jurisdiction;

                        dd.    The Geologic Storage Operator is named as debtor in
                               a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11
                               (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code; or

                        ee.    The amount due is paid.

     (5)   The qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) must be approved by
           the Director.

           A.    The Director must consider and approve the financial responsibility
                 demonstration for all the phases of the Geologic Storage
                 Operations prior to issuing a Class VI UIC Well permit.

           B.    The Geologic Storage Operator must provide any updated
                 information related to their financial responsibility instrument(s) on
                 an annual basis and if there are any changes, the Director must
                 evaluate, within a reasonable time, the financial responsibility
                 demonstration to confirm that the instrument(s) used remain
                 adequate for use. The Geologic Storage Operator must maintain
                 financial responsibility requirements regardless of the status of the
                 Director's review of the financial responsibility demonstration.

           C.    The Director may deny the use of a financial instrument if they
                 determine that it is not sufficient to meet the requirements of this
                 section.

     (6)   The Geologic Storage Operator may demonstrate financial responsibility
           by using one or multiple qualifying financial instruments for specific
           phases of the Geologic Storage Operations.

           A.    In the event that the Geologic Storage Operator combines more
                 than one instrument for a specific Geologic Storage Operations
                 phase (e.g., Well Plugging), such combination must be limited to
                 instruments that are not based on financial strength or performance
                 (i.e., performance bond), for example trust funds, surety bonds
                 guaranteeing payment into a trust fund, escrow account, and
                 insurance. In this case, it is the combination of mechanisms, rather
                 than the single mechanism, which must provide financial
                 responsibility for an amount at least equal to the current cost
                 estimate.




                                                                                    607
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     When using a third-party instrument to demonstrate financial
                  responsibility, the Geologic Storage Operator must provide proof
                  that the third-party providers either have passed financial strength
                  requirements based on credit ratings; or have met a minimum
                  rating, minimum capitalization, and ability to pass the bond rating
                  when applicable.

           C.     A Geologic Storage Operator using certain types of third-party
                  instruments must establish a standby trust to enable EPA to be
                  party to the financial responsibility agreement without EPA being
                  the beneficiary of any funds. The standby trust fund must be used
                  along with other financial responsibility instruments (e.g., surety
                  bonds or escrow accounts) to provide a location to place funds if
                  needed.

           D.     A Geologic Storage Operator may deposit money to an escrow
                  account to cover financial responsibility requirements; this account
                  must segregate funds sufficient to cover estimated costs for
                  Geologic Storage financial responsibility from other accounts and
                  uses.

           E.     A Geologic Storage Operator may obtain an insurance policy to
                  cover the estimated costs of Geologic Storage Operations requiring
                  financial responsibility. This insurance policy must be obtained from
                  a third party provider.

b.   The requirement to maintain adequate financial responsibility and resources is
     directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the
     approved Class VI Development Plan.

     (1)   The Geologic Storage Operator must maintain financial responsibility and
           resources until:

           A.     The Director receives and approves the completed Post-Injection
                  Site Care and Site Closure plan; and

           B.     The Director approves Site Closure.

     (2)   The Geologic Storage Operator may be released from a financial
           instrument in the following circumstances:

           A.     The Geologic Storage Operator has completed the phase of the
                  Geologic Storage project for which the financial instrument was
                  required and has fulfilled all its financial obligations as determined
                  by the Director, including obtaining financial responsibility for the
                  next phase of the Geologic Storage Operations, if required; or




                                                                                      608
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.     The Geologic Storage Operator has submitted a replacement
                  financial instrument and received written approval from the Director
                  accepting the new financial instrument and releasing the Geologic
                  Storage Operator from the previous financial instrument.

     (3)   If the Commission determines, following notice and a hearing, that a
           Geologic Storage Operator made a material misrepresentation or
           omission that caused the Director to approve Site Closure and release the
           Geologic Storage Operator’s financial responsibility, the Commission may
           require the Geologic Storage Operator to demonstrate and maintain
           financial responsibility pursuant to Rule 1415.a.

c.   The Geologic Storage Operator must have a detailed written estimate, in current
     dollars, of the cost of performing Class VI Corrective Action on Wells in the
     Geologic Storage Area of Review, plugging the Class VI UIC Well(s), Post-
     Injection Site Care and Site Closure, and emergency and remedial response.

     (1)   The cost estimate must be performed for each phase separately and must
           be based on the costs to the Commission of hiring a third party to perform
           the required activities. A third party is a party who is not within the
           corporate structure of the Geologic Storage Operator.

     (2)   During the active life of the Geologic Storage Facility, the Geologic
           Storage Operator must adjust the cost estimate for inflation within 60 days
           prior to the anniversary date of the establishment of the financial
           instrument(s) used to comply with Rule 1415.a and provide this
           adjustment to the Director. The Geologic Storage Operator must also
           provide to the Director written updates of adjustments to the cost estimate
           within 60 days of any amendments to the Geologic Storage Area of
           Review and Class VI Corrective Action plan pursuant to Rule 1414, the
           Injection Well Plugging plan pursuant to Rule 1422, the Post-Injection Site
           Care and Site Closure plan pursuant to Rule 1423, and the Emergency
           and Remedial Response Plan pursuant to Rule 1424.

     (3)   The Director must approve any decrease or increase to the initial cost
           estimate. During the active life of the Geologic Storage Operations, the
           Geologic Storage Operator must revise the cost estimate no later than 60
           days after the Director has approved the request to modify the Geologic
           Storage Area of Review and Class VI Corrective Action plan pursuant to
           Rule 1414, the Injection Well Plugging plan pursuant to Rule 1422, the
           Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan pursuant to Rule 1423, and
           the emergency and remedial response plan pursuant to Rule 1424, if the
           change in the plan increases the cost. If the change to the plans
           decreases the cost, any withdrawal of funds must be approved by the
           Director. Any decrease to the value of the financial assurance instrument
           must first be approved by the Director. The revised cost estimate must be
           adjusted for inflation as specified pursuant to Rule 1415.c.(2).



                                                                                  609
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (4)   Whenever the current cost estimate increases to an amount greater than
           the face amount of a financial instrument currently in use, the Geologic
           Storage Operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the
           face amount to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current
           cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Director, or
           obtain other financial responsibility instruments to cover the increase.
           Whenever the current cost estimate decreases, the face amount of the
           financial assurance instrument may be reduced to the amount of the
           current cost estimate only after the Geologic Storage Operator has
           received written approval from the Director.

d.   The Geologic Storage Operator must notify the Director by certified mail of
     adverse financial conditions such as bankruptcy that may affect the Geologic
     Storage Operator’s ability to carry out Injection Well Plugging and Post-Injection
     Site Care and Site Closure.

     (1)   In the event that the Geologic Storage Operator or the third-party provider
           of a financial responsibility instrument is going through a bankruptcy, the
           Geologic Storage Operator must notify the Director by certified mail of the
           commencement of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding under
           11 U.S.C. 101 et seq., naming the Geologic Storage Operator as debtor,
           within 10 days after commencement of the proceeding.

     (2)   A guarantor of a corporate guarantee must make such a notification to the
           Director if they are named as debtor, as required under the terms of the
           corporate guarantee.

     (3)   A Geologic Storage Operator who fulfills the requirements of Rule 1415.a
           by obtaining a trust fund, surety bond, escrow account, or insurance policy
           will be deemed to be without the required financial assurance in the event
           of bankruptcy of the trustee or issuing institution, or a suspension or
           revocation of the authority of the trustee institution to act as trustee of the
           institution issuing the trust fund, surety bond, escrow account, or
           insurance policy. The Geologic Storage Operator must establish other
           financial assurance within 60 days after such an event.

e.   The Geologic Storage Operator must provide an adjustment of the cost estimate
     to the Director within 60 days of notification by the Director, if the Director
     determines during the annual evaluation of the qualifying financial responsibility
     instrument(s) that the most recent demonstration is no longer adequate to cover
     the cost of Class VI Corrective Action pursuant to Rule 1414, Injection Well
     Plugging pursuant to Rule 1422, Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure
     pursuant to Rule 1423, and emergency and remedial response pursuant to Rule
     1424.

f.   The Director must approve the use and length of pay-in-periods for trust funds or
     escrow accounts.




                                                                                      610
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1416. INJECTION WELL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS

a.   General. The Geologic Storage Operator must ensure that all Class VI UIC Wells
     are constructed and completed to:

     (1)   Prevent the movement of Fluids into or between USDWs or into any
           unauthorized zones;

     (2)   Enable the use of appropriate testing devices and workover tools; and

     (3)   Enable continuous monitoring of the annulus space between the injection
           tubing and long string Casing.

b.   Casing and Cementing of Class VI UIC Wells.

     (1)   Casing and cement or other materials used in the construction of each
           Class VI UIC Well must have sufficient structural strength and be
           designed for the life of the Geologic Storage Operations.

     (2)   All Well materials must be compatible with Fluids with which the materials
           may be expected to come into contact and must meet or exceed the
           following standards:

           A.     American Petroleum Institute (“API”) Specification 10A, Casing and
                  Materials for Well Cementing, Twenty-fifth Edition, March 2019,
                  Addendum 1 November 2019. Only the Twenty-fifth Edition of API’s
                  Specification 10A applies to this Rule; later amendments do not
                  apply.

           B.     API Recommended Practice (“RP”) 10B-2, Recommended Practice
                  for Testing Well Cements, Second Edition, April 2013, Reaffirmed
                  April 2019. Only the Second Edition of API’s RP 10B-2 applies to
                  this Rule; later amendments do not apply.

           C.     API RP 5C1, Recommended Practice for Care and Use of Casing
                  and Tubing, Eighteenth Edition, May 1999, Reaffirmed July 2020.
                  Only the Eighteenth Edition of API’s RP 5C1 applies to this Rule;
                  later amendments do not apply.

           D.     API Specification 5CT, Casing and Tubing, Eleventh Edition,
                  December 2023, Errata 1, May 2024. Only the Eleventh Edition of
                  API’s Specification 5CT applies to this Rule; later amendments do
                  not apply.

           E.     All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
                  public inspection during normal business hours from the Public
                  Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
                  Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials



                                                                                    611
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                  are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-
                  4070, https://www.api.org/.

     (3)   The Casing and Cementing program must be designed to prevent the
           movement of Fluids into or between USDWs. In order to allow the Director
           to determine and specify Casing and Cementing requirements, the
           Geologic Storage Operator must provide the following information:

           A.     Depth to the Injection Zone(s);

           B.     Injection Pressure, external Pressure, internal Pressure, and axial
                  loading;

           C.     Hole size;

           D.     Size and grade of all Casing strings (wall thickness, external
                  diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification, and
                  construction material);

           E.     Corrosiveness of the Carbon Dioxide Stream and Formation Fluids;

           F.     Down-hole temperatures;

           G.     Lithology of Injection and Confining Zone(s);

           H.     Type or grade of cement and cement additives; and

           I.     Quantity, chemical composition, and temperature of the Carbon
                  Dioxide Stream.

     (4)   Casing must extend through the base of the lowermost USDW above the
           Injection Zone and be cemented to the surface through the use of a single
           or multiple strings of Casing and cement to prevent the movement of
           Fluids into or between USDWs.

     (5)   At least one long string Casing, using a sufficient number of centralizers,
           must extend to the Injection Zone and must be cemented by circulating
           cement to the surface in one or more stages.

     (6)   Circulation of cement may be accomplished by staging. The Director may
           approve an alternative method of Cementing in cases where the cement
           cannot be recirculated to the surface, provided the Geologic Storage
           Operator can demonstrate by using logs that the cement does not allow
           Fluid movement behind the well bore.

     (7)   Cement and cement additives must be compatible with the Carbon
           Dioxide Stream and Formation Fluids and of sufficient quality and quantity
           to maintain integrity over the design life of the Geologic Storage Facility.




                                                                                    612
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           The integrity and location of the cement must be verified using technology
           capable of evaluating cement quality radially and identifying the location of
           channels to ensure that USDWs are not endangered.

c.   Tubing and Packer.

     (1)   Tubing and Packer materials used in the construction of each Class VI
           UIC Well must be compatible with Fluids with which the materials may be
           expected to come into contact and must meet or exceed the following
           standards:

           A.     API Specification 11D1, Packers and Bridge Plugs, Fourth Edition,
                  March 2021. Only the Fourth Edition of API’s Specification 11D1
                  applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply.

           B.     API RP 10D-2, Centralized Placement and Stop-collar Testing,
                  Second Edition, August 2023. Only the Second Edition of API’s RP
                  10D-2 applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply.

           C.     API RP 14B, Design, Installation, Operation, Test, and Redress of
                  Subsurface Safety Valve Systems, Sixth Edition, September 2015.
                  Only the Sixth Edition of API’s RP 14B applies to this Rule; later
                  amendments do not apply.

           D.     API RP 5C1, Recommended Practice for Care and Use of Casing
                  and Tubing, Eighteenth Edition, May 1999, Reaffirmed July 2020.
                  Only the Eighteenth Edition of API’s RP 5C1 applies to this Rule;
                  later amendments do not apply.

           E.     API Specification 5CT, Casing and Tubing, Eleventh Edition,
                  December 2023, Errata 1, May 2024. Only the Eleventh Edition of
                  API’s Specification 5CT applies to this Rule; later amendments do
                  not apply.

           F.     All materials incorporated by reference in this Rule are available for
                  public inspection during normal business hours from the Public
                  Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln
                  Street, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203. In addition, these materials
                  are available from API, 1220 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-
                  4070, https://www.api.org/.

     (2)   All Geologic Storage Operators must inject Fluids through tubing with a
           Packer set at a depth opposite a cemented interval at the location
           approved by the Director.

     (3)   In order for the Director to determine and specify requirements for tubing
           and Packer, the Geologic Storage Operator must submit the following
           information:



                                                                                    613
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            A.     Depth of setting;

            B.     Characteristics of the Carbon Dioxide Stream (chemical content,
                   corrosiveness, temperature, and density) and Formation Fluids;

            C.     Maximum proposed injection Pressure;

            D.     Maximum proposed annular Pressure;

            E.     Proposed injection rate (intermittent or continuous) and volume
                   and/or mass of the Carbon Dioxide Stream;

            F.     Size of tubing and Casing; and

            G.     Tubing tensile, burst, and collapse strengths.



d.   Additional Requirements. The Geologic Storage Operator must comply with
     EPA’s Requirements for All Wells, 40 C.F.R. § 147.305. Only the version of 40
     C.F.R. § 147.305 in effect as of the effective date of these 1400-Series Rules
     applies to this Rule; later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. § 147.305 is
     available for public inspection during normal business hours from the Public
     Room Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
     801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
     Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available online at
     https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/CFR-2010-title40-vol22/CFR-2010-title40-
     vol22-sec147-305.

1417. LOGGING, SAMPLING, AND TESTING PRIOR TO INJECTION WELL
OPERATION

a.   During the drilling and construction of a Class VI UIC Well, the Geologic Storage
     Operator must run appropriate logs, surveys and tests to determine or verify the
     depth, thickness, porosity, permeability, and Lithology of, and the salinity of any
     Formation Fluids in all relevant geologic Formations to ensure conformance with
     the Injection Well construction requirements pursuant to Rule 1416 and to
     establish accurate baseline data against which future measurements may be
     compared. The Geologic Storage Operator must submit to the Director a
     descriptive report prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst that includes an
     interpretation of the results of such logs and tests. At a minimum, such logs and
     tests must include:

     (1)    Deviation checks during drilling on all holes constructed by drilling a pilot
            hole which is enlarged by reaming or another method. Such checks must
            be at sufficiently frequent intervals to determine the location of the
            borehole and to ensure that vertical avenues for Fluid movement in the
            form of diverging holes are not created during drilling; and



                                                                                      614
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)    Before and upon installation of the Surface Casing:

            A.     Resistivity, spontaneous potential, and caliper logs before the
                   Casing is installed; and

            B.     A cement bond and variable density log to evaluate cement quality
                   radially, and a temperature log after the Casing is set and
                   cemented.

     (3)    Before and upon installation of the long string Casing:

            A.     Resistivity, spontaneous potential, porosity, caliper, gamma ray,
                   fracture finder logs, and any other logs the Director requires for the
                   given geology before the Casing is installed; and

            B.     A cement bond log, capable of generating a variable density
                   display, and a temperature log after the Casing is set and
                   cemented.

     (4)    A series of tests designed to demonstrate the internal and external
            mechanical integrity of Injection Wells, which may include:

            A.     A Pressure test with liquid or gas;

            B.     A tracer survey such as oxygen-activation logging;

            C.     A temperature or noise log;

            D.     A Casing inspection log; and

     (5)    Any alternative methods that provide equivalent or better information and
            that are required by and/or approved of by the Director.

b.   The Geologic Storage Operator must take whole cores or sidewall cores of the
     Injection Zone and confining system and Formation Fluid samples from the
     Injection Zone(s), and must submit to the Director a detailed report prepared by a
     log analyst that includes: Well log analyses (including well logs), core analyses,
     and Formation Fluid sample information. The Director may accept information on
     cores from nearby Wells if the Geologic Storage Operator can demonstrate that
     core retrieval is not possible and that such cores are representative of conditions
     at the Well. The Director may require the Geologic Storage Operator to core
     other Formations in the borehole.

c.   The Geologic Storage Operator must record the Fluid temperature, pH,
     conductivity, reservoir Pressure, and static Fluid level of the Injection Zone(s).

d.   At a minimum, the Geologic Storage Operator must determine or calculate the
     following information concerning the Injection and Confining Zone(s):




                                                                                      615
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)    Fracture Pressure;

     (2)    Other physical and chemical characteristics of the Injection and Confining
            Zone(s); and

     (3)    Physical and chemical characteristics of the Formation Fluids in the
            Injection Zone(s).

e.   Upon completion, but prior to operation, the Geologic Storage Operator must
     conduct the following tests to verify hydrogeologic characteristics of the Injection
     Zone(s):

     (1)    A pressure fall-off test; and,

     (2)    A pump test; or

     (3)    Injectivity tests.

f.   The Geologic Storage Operator must provide the Director with the opportunity to
     witness all logging and testing by this subpart. The Geologic Storage Operator
     must submit a schedule of such activities to the Director 30 days prior to
     conducting the first test and submit any changes to the schedule 30 days prior to
     the next scheduled test.

1418. INJECTION WELL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS

a.   Authorization to Inject. A Geologic Storage Operator may only inject Injection
     Carbon Dioxide pursuant to an approved Class VI Development Plan following
     Director approval of an Authorization to Inject via a Form 50-Subsequent and a
     Form 51-Subsequent.

b.   Except during well Stimulation, the Geologic Storage Operator must ensure that
     injection Pressure does not exceed 90 percent of the fracture Pressure of the
     Injection Zone(s) so as to ensure that the injection does not initiate new fractures
     or propagate existing fractures in the Injection Zone(s). In no case may injection
     Pressure initiate fractures in the Confining Zone(s) or cause the movement of
     injection or Formation Fluids that endangers a USDW. Pursuant to Rule
     1407.b.(9), all well Stimulation programs must be approved by the Director as
     part of the permit application and incorporated into the permit.

c.   Injection between the outermost Casing protecting USDWs and the well bore is
     prohibited.

d.   The Geologic Storage Operator must fill the annulus between the tubing and the
     long string Casing with a non-corrosive Fluid approved by the Director. The
     Geologic Storage Operator must maintain on the annulus a Pressure that
     exceeds the operating injection Pressure, unless the Director determines that
     such requirement might harm the integrity of the well or endanger USDWs.



                                                                                      616
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

e.   Other than during periods of well workover (maintenance) approved by the
     Director in which the sealed tubing-casing annulus is disassembled for
     maintenance or corrective procedures, the Geologic Storage Operator must
     maintain mechanical integrity of the Injection Well at all times.

f.   The Geologic Storage Operator must install and use:

     (1)   Continuous recording devices to monitor:

           A.     The injection Pressure;

           B.     The rate, volume and/or mass, and temperature of the Carbon
                  Dioxide Stream; and

           C.     The Pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long
                  string Casing and annulus Fluid volume; and

     (2)   Alarms and automatic surface shut-off systems or, at the discretion of the
           Director, down-hole shut-off systems (e.g., automatic shut-off, check
           valves) for onshore wells or, other mechanical devices that provide
           equivalent protection; and

     (3)   Alarms and automatic down-hole shut-off systems for wells located
           offshore but within State territorial waters, designed to alert the Geologic
           Storage Operator and shut-in the well when operating parameters such as
           annulus Pressure, injection rate, or other parameters diverge beyond
           permitted ranges and/or gradients specified in the permit.

g.   If a shutdown (i.e., down-hole or at the surface) is triggered or a loss of
     mechanical integrity is discovered, the Geologic Storage Operator must
     immediately investigate and identify as expeditiously as possible the cause of the
     shutdown. If, upon such investigation, the well appears to be lacking mechanical
     integrity, or if monitoring required under paragraph (e) of this section otherwise
     indicates that the well may be lacking mechanical integrity, the Geologic Storage
     Operator must:

     (1)   Immediately cease injection;

     (2)   Take all steps reasonably necessary to determine whether there may
           have been a release of the injected Carbon Dioxide Stream or Formation
           Fluids into any unauthorized zone;

     (3)   Notify the Director within 24 hours;

     (4)   Restore and demonstrate mechanical integrity to the satisfaction of the
           Director prior to resuming injection; and

     (5)   Notify the Director when injection can be expected to resume.



                                                                                     617
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

h.   Prior to commencement of operations, the Operator must obtain any necessary
     air permit(s) from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

1419. MECHANICAL INTEGRITY

a.   A Class VI UIC Well has mechanical integrity if:

     (1)    There is no significant leak in the Casing, tubing, or Packer; and

     (2)    There is no significant Fluid movement into a USDW through channels
            adjacent to the Injection Well bore.

b.   A Geologic Storage Operator must conduct at least one of the following
     mechanical integrity tests on all Class VI UIC Wells to determine whether
     significant leaks are present in the casing, tubing, or mechanical isolation device:

     (1)    Isolation of the tubing-casing Annulus with a packer set at 100 feet or less
            above the highest open Injection Zone perforation, unless an alternate
            isolation distance is approved in writing by the Director. The pressure test
            must be with liquid or gas at a pressure of not less than 300 psi or the
            average injection pressure, whichever is greater, and not more than the
            maximum permitted injection pressure;

     (2)    The monitoring and reporting to the Director, on a monthly basis for 60
            consecutive months, of the average casing-tubing Annulus pressure,
            following an initial pressure test; or

     (3)    Any equivalent test or combination of tests approved by the Director.

c.   To evaluate the absence of significant leaks pursuant to Rule 1419.a.(1), the
     Geologic Storage Operator must , following an initial annulus Pressure test,
     continuously monitor injection Pressure, rate, and injected volumes; Pressure on
     the annulus between tubing and long-string Casing; and annulus Fluid volume as
     specified in Rule 1418.f.

d.   At least once per year, the Geologic Storage Operator must use one of the
     following methods to determine the absence of significant Fluid movement
     pursuant to Rule 1419.a.(2):

     (1)    An approved tracer survey;

     (2)    A temperature or noise log; or

     (3)    Another substantially equivalent monitoring method approved by the
            Director.

e.   If required by the Director, at a frequency specified in the testing and monitoring
     plan pursuant to Rule 1420, the Geologic Storage Operator must run a Casing




                                                                                      618
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

      inspection log to determine the presence or absence of corrosion in the long-
      string Casing.

f.    The Director may require any other test to evaluate mechanical integrity pursuant
      to Rule 1419.a. Also, the Director may allow the use of a test to demonstrate
      mechanical integrity other than those listed above with the written approval of the
      EPA Regional Administrator. To obtain approval for a new mechanical integrity
      test, the Director must submit a written request to the EPA Regional
      Administrator setting forth the proposed test and all technical data supporting its
      use. The EPA Regional Administrator may approve the request if they determine
      that it will reliably demonstrate the mechanical integrity of wells for which its use
      is proposed. Any alternate method approved by the EPA Regional Administrator
      will be published in the Federal Register and may be used in all States in
      accordance with applicable State law unless its use is restricted at the time of
      approval by the EPA Regional Administrator.

g.    In conducting and evaluating the tests enumerated in this section or others to be
      allowed by the Director, the Geologic Storage Operator and the Director must
      apply methods and standards generally accepted in the industry. When the
      Geologic Storage Operator reports the results of mechanical integrity tests to the
      Director, they must include a description of the test(s) and the method(s) used. In
      making their evaluation, the Director must review monitoring and other test data
      submitted since the previous evaluation.

h.    The Director may require additional or alternative tests if the results presented by
      the Geologic Storage Operator pursuant to Rule 1419.a-d are not satisfactory to
      the Director to demonstrate that there is no significant leak in the Casing, tubing,
      or Packer, or to demonstrate that there is no significant movement of Fluid into a
      USDW resulting from the injection activity pursuant to Rule 1419.a.

i.    Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 418 for reporting results of
      mechanical integrity tests.

1420. TESTING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

The Geologic Storage Operator must prepare, maintain, and comply with a testing and
monitoring plan to verify that the Geologic Storage Operations are operating as
permitted and are not endangering USDWs. The requirement to maintain and
implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the
requirement is a condition of the permit. The testing and monitoring plan must be
submitted with the permit application, for Commission approval, and must include a
description of how the Geologic Storage Operator will meet the requirements of this
Rule 1420, including accessing sites for all necessary monitoring and testing during the
life of the project. Testing and monitoring associated with Geologic Storage Operations
must , at a minimum, include:




                                                                                       619
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

a.   Analysis of the Carbon Dioxide Stream with sufficient frequency to yield data
     representative of its chemical and physical characteristics. In no case will the
     Geologic Storage Operator analyze the Carbon Dioxide Stream less often than
     once every five years;

b.   Installation and use, except during well workovers as defined in Rule 1418.e, of
     continuous recording devices to monitor injection Pressure, rate, and volume; the
     Pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string Casing; and the
     annulus Fluid volume added;

c.   Corrosion monitoring of the well materials for loss of mass, thickness, cracking,
     pitting, and other signs of corrosion, which must be performed on a quarterly
     basis to ensure that the well components meet the minimum standards for
     material strength and performance set forth in Rule 1416.b, by:

     (1)    Analyzing coupons of the well construction materials placed in contact
            with the Carbon Dioxide Stream; or

     (2)    Routing the Carbon Dioxide Stream through a loop constructed with the
            material used in the well and inspecting the materials in the loop; or

     (3)    Using an alternative method approved by the Director;

d.   Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality and geochemical changes above
     the Confining Zone(s) that may be a result of Injection Carbon Dioxide movement
     through the Confining Zone(s) or additional identified zones including:

     (1)    The location and number of monitoring wells based on specific information
            about the Geologic Storage Operations, including injection rate and
            volume, geology, the presence of artificial penetrations, and other factors;
            and

     (2)    The monitoring frequency and spatial distribution of monitoring wells
            based on baseline geochemical data that has been collected under Rule
            1407.b.(6) and on any modeling results in the Geologic Storage Area of
            Review evaluation required by Rule 1414.c.



e.   A demonstration of external mechanical integrity pursuant to Rule 1419.d at least
     once per year until the Injection Well is plugged; and, if required by the Director,
     a Casing inspection log pursuant to requirements at Rule 1419.e at a frequency
     established in the testing and monitoring plan;

f.   A Pressure fall-off test at least once every five years unless more frequent testing
     is required by the Director based on site-specific information;




                                                                                     620
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

g.   Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the Carbon Dioxide Plume and the
     presence or absence of elevated Pressure (e.g., the Pressure Front) by using:

     (1)   Direct methods in the Injection Zone(s); and,

     (2)   Indirect methods (e.g., seismic, electrical, gravity, or electromagnetic
           surveys and/or down-hole carbon dioxide detection tools), unless the
           Director determines, based on site-specific geology, that such methods
           are not appropriate;

h.   The Director may require surface air monitoring and/or soil gas monitoring to
     detect movement of Injection Carbon Dioxide that could endanger a USDW.

     (1)   Design of Class VI surface air and/or soil gas monitoring must be based
           on potential risks to USDWs within the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

     (2)   The monitoring frequency and spatial distribution of surface air monitoring
           and/or soil gas monitoring must be decided using baseline data, and the
           monitoring plan must describe how the proposed monitoring will yield
           useful information on the Geologic Storage Area of Review delineation
           and/or compliance with standards pursuant to Rule 1404.a.(2);

     (3)   If a Geologic Storage Operator demonstrates that monitoring employed
           under 40 C.F.R. §§ 98.440 to 98.449 (Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et
           seq.) accomplishes the goals of Rule 1420.h.(1) & (2), and meets the
           requirements pursuant to Rule 1421.c.(5), a Director that requires surface
           air/soil gas monitoring must approve the use of monitoring employed
           under 40 C.F.R. §§ 98.440 to 98.449. Compliance with 40 C.F.R. §§
           98.440 to 98.449 pursuant to this provision is considered a condition of the
           Class VI permit. Only the version of 40 C.F.R.§§ 98.440 to 98.449 in effect
           as of the effective date of these 1400-Series Rules applies to this Rule;
           later amendments do not apply. 40 C.F.R. §§ 98.440 to 98.449 is available
           for public inspection during normal business hours from the Public Room
           Administrator at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
           801, Denver, Colorado 80203, and at the U.S. Environmental Protection
           Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop St, Denver, CO 80202, and is available
           online at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-40/chapter-I/subchapter-C/part-
           98/subpart-RR;

i.   Any additional monitoring, as required by the Director, necessary to support,
     upgrade, and improve computational modeling of the Geologic Storage Area of
     Review evaluation required under Rule 1414.c and to determine compliance with
     standards pursuant to Rule 1404.a.(2);

j.   The Geologic Storage Operator must periodically review the testing and
     monitoring plan to incorporate monitoring data collected under this Rule 1420,
     operational data collected under Rule 1418, and the most recent Geologic
     Storage Area of Review reevaluation performed under Rule 1414.e. In no case



                                                                                     621
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     will the Geologic Storage Operator review the testing and monitoring plan less
     often than once every five years. Based on this review, the Geologic Storage
     Operator must submit an amended testing and monitoring plan or demonstrate to
     the Director that no amendment to the testing and monitoring plan is needed.
     Any amendments to the testing and monitoring plan must be approved by the
     Director, must be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit
     modification requirements at Rule 1413, as appropriate. Amended plans or
     demonstrations must be submitted to the Director as follows:

     (1)   Within one year of an Geologic Storage Area of Review re-evaluation;

     (2)   Following any significant changes to the facility, such as addition of
           monitoring wells or newly permitted Injection Wells within the Geologic
           Storage Area of Review, on a schedule determined by the Director; or

     (3)   When required by the Director.

k.   A quality assurance and surveillance plan for all testing and monitoring
     requirements.

l.   Seismicity Evaluation and Monitoring System.

     (1)   Seismicity Evaluation. An application for a Class VI Development Plan
           must include a seismicity evaluation with the following information:

           A.     A geological and geophysical evaluation of known transmissive or
                  sealing faults or shear zones within 12 miles of the Geologic
                  Storage Area of Review of the proposed Class IV UIC Well and the
                  potential for induced seismicity during injection operations;

           B.     An exhibit of the historical seismic activity within 12 miles of the
                  Geologic Storage Area of Review of the proposed Class VI UIC
                  Well;

           C.     An exhibit showing the potential for seismic activity within 12 miles
                  of the Geologic Storage Area of Review of the proposed Class VI
                  UIC Well; and

           D.     A wellbore diagram of the Injection Well depicting the Well’s
                  bottomhole location relative to the Precambrian basement.

           E.     If the Operator proposes an Injection Zone within 300 feet in
                  vertical dimension of the Precambrian basement per Rule
                  1411.a.(1), the Operator must provide a demonstration of technical
                  necessity and safety associated with injection in proximity to the
                  Precambrian basement.




                                                                                         622
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   Conditions of Approval. Prior to approving a Class VI Development
           Plan, the Commission will require any conditions of approval necessary
           and reasonable to avoid, minimize, and mitigate the risk that the Geologic
           Storage Operations may reasonably be anticipated to induce seismic
           activity with a minimum credible magnitude 2.7 or greater, including a site
           specific traffic light protocol per rule 1420.l.(6).C.

     (3)   Seismicity Monitoring System Requirements. The Commission may
           require the Geologic Storage Operator to deploy and maintain a seismicity
           monitoring system or utilize existing monitoring systems in order to
           determine the presence or absence, magnitude, and the hypocenter
           location of seismic activity within the vicinity of the Geologic Storage
           Facility. Where the Commission requires the Geologic Storage Operator to
           deploy and maintain a seismicity monitoring system, that system must:

           A.    Utilize seismometer(s) installed at location(s) approved by the
                 Director;

           B.    Enable consideration of whether the risk of inducing an earthquake
                 of minimum credible magnitude 2.7 or greater is significantly
                 increased by injection;

           C.    Be designed with surface arrays and/or downhole arrays as
                 required to meet minimum magnitude of completeness of 1.0, or an
                 alternative site-appropriate minimum magnitude approved by the
                 Director, and to appropriately calibrate event magnitudes and
                 hypocenter locations; and

           D.    Be calibrated with check-shots, sonic logs, or other local velocity
                 information, preferably at depth.

     (4)   If, based on project-specific risk analysis, the Commission determines that
           seismic monitoring does not need to be permanent for a particular project,
           the Commission may permit local seismicity monitoring to be discontinued,
           deferring instead to state and/or national arrays for long-term monitoring.

           A.    In the event of an increase in seismicity or an event over minimum
                 credible magnitude 2.7, the Director may require the Geologic
                 Storage Operator to reinstate monitoring pursuant to Rule
                 1420.l.(3) and/or take other actions deemed necessary and
                 reasonable to avoid, minimize, and mitigate the risk of induced
                 seismicity.

     (5)   The Geologic Storage Operator must analyze seismicity and other
           relevant data to determine whether the risk of triggering an earthquake of
           minimum credible magnitude 2.7 or greater is significantly increased by
           injection. If such an increase is determined, the Geologic Storage
           Operator must:



                                                                                   623
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

             A.    Notify the Director within 48 hours; and

             B.    Take actions, in consultation with the Director, to avoid, minimize,
                   and mitigate the risk of induced seismicity.

      (6)    If the Geologic Storage Operator observes an earthquake within the
             vicinity of the Geologic Storage Facility with a minimum credible
             magnitude of 2.7 or greater as described below, the Geologic Storage
             Operator must:

             A.    Magnitude of 2.7-4.99

                   i.     Notify the Director within 24 hours; and

                   ii.    Take actions, in consultation with the Director, to avoid,
                          minimize, and mitigate the risk of induced seismicity or risk
                          to the integrity of any Well associated with the Geologic
                          Storage Operations or the integrity of the Geologic Storage
                          Facility.

             B.    Magnitude 5.0 or greater

                   i.     Notify the Director within 24 hours;

                   ii.    Pause injection until such time as the Director approves
                          resumption of injection operations;

                   iii.   Confer with the Director regarding mitigation practices; and

                   iv.    Implement mitigation measures approved by the Director.

             C.    In lieu of the requirements of Rule 1420.l.(6).A. and B., the Director
                   may require the Geologic Storage Operator to implement a site
                   specific traffic light protocol for seismicity based on site
                   characterization information and any applicable data.

      (7)    For Geologic Storage Operations that are subject to Rule 1420.l.(3), the
             Operator must provide seismic monitoring data and analyses to the
             Director upon request.

1421. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The Geologic Storage Operator must, at a minimum, provide the following reports to the
Director, for each permitted Class VI UIC Well:

a.    Form 7CS, Geologic Storage Operator's Monthly Report of Operations.
      Geologic Storage Operators must report all existing Class VI UIC Wells that are




                                                                                     624
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     not Plugged and Abandoned on the Form 7CS, Geologic Storage Operator’s
     Monthly Report of Operations within 45 days after the end of each month.

     (1)    Geologic Storage Operators must report a Class VI UIC Well every month
            from the month that it is spud until it has been Plugged and Abandoned
            and reported for one month as abandoned. In addition to their injecting
            and Plugged and Abandoned Wells, Geologic Storage Operators must
            identify and list all of their drilling, Shut-In Wells, Suspended Operations,
            Temporarily Abandoned Wells, and Waiting on Completion Wells on their
            Form 7CS reports.

     (2)    Geologic Storage Operators must report each injection formation in a
            Class VI UIC Well every month from the time that injection begins until it
            has been abandoned and reported for one month as abandoned.

     (3)    Geologic Storage Operators must report within 45 days of the end of each
            month:

            A.     Monthly average, maximum, and minimum values for injection
                   Pressure, flow rate and volume, and annular Pressure;

            B.     The monthly volume and/or mass of the Carbon Dioxide Stream
                   injected over the reporting period and the volume injected
                   cumulatively over the life of the project; and

            C.     Monthly annulus Fluid volume added.

b.   Semi-annual reports containing:

     (1)    Any changes to the physical, chemical, and other relevant characteristics
            of the Carbon Dioxide Stream from the proposed operating data;

     (2)    A description of any event that exceeds operating parameters for annulus
            Pressure or injection Pressure specified in the permit;

     (3)    A description of any event which triggers a shut-off device required
            pursuant to Rule 1418.f and the response taken;

     (4)    The results of monitoring prescribed pursuant to Rule 1420.

c.   Report, within 30 days, the results of:

     (1)    Periodic tests of mechanical integrity pursuant to Rule 418;

     (2)    Any well workover; and

     (3)    Any other test of the Injection Well conducted by the Geologic Storage
            Operator if required by the Director.




                                                                                     625
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   Report, within 24 hours:

     (1)   Any evidence that the injected Carbon Dioxide Stream or associated
           Pressure Front may cause an endangerment to a USDW;

     (2)   Any noncompliance with a permit condition, or malfunction of the injection
           system, which may cause Fluid migration into or between USDWs;

     (3)   Any triggering of a shut-off system (i.e., down-hole or at the surface);

     (4)   Any failure to maintain mechanical integrity; or

     (5)   Pursuant to Rule 1420.h for surface air/soil gas monitoring or other
           monitoring technologies, if required by the Director, any release of
           Injection Carbon Dioxide to the atmosphere or biosphere.

e.   Geologic Storage Operators must notify the Director in writing 30 days in
     advance of:

     (1)   Any planned Well workover;

     (2)   Any planned well Stimulation activities, other than well Stimulation for
           Formation testing conducted pursuant to Rule 1407; and

     (3)   Any other planned test of the Injection Well conducted by the permittee.

f.   In addition to the Director, Geologic Storage Operators must submit all required
     reports, submittals, and notifications pursuant to the Commission’s 1400 Series
     Rules to EPA in an electronic format approved by EPA.

g.   Records must be retained by the Geologic Storage Operator as follows:

     (1)   All data collected under Rule 1407 for Class VI permit applications must
           be retained throughout the life of the Geologic Storage Operations and for
           10 years after Site Closure.

     (2)   Data on the nature and composition of all injected Fluids collected
           pursuant to Rule 1420.a must be retained until 10 years after Site Closure.
           The Director may require the Geologic Storage Operator to deliver the
           records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period.

     (3)   Monitoring data collected pursuant to Rule 1420.b-i must be retained for
           10 years after it is collected.

     (4)   Well Plugging reports, Post-Injection Site Care data, and the Site Closure
           report collected pursuant to requirements at Rule 1423.f and 1423.h must
           be retained for 10 years after Site Closure.




                                                                                      626
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (5)   The Director has authority to require the Geologic Storage Operator to
           retain any records required in this subpart for longer than 10 years after
           Site Closure and to require the Geologic Storage Operator to provide such
           records to the Director.

     (6)   Unless otherwise specified by the Commission’s Rules, Operators must
           maintain and keep all records, reports, and underlying data required by
           the Commission’s Rules for a period of 5 years after it is collected.

1422. INJECTION WELL PLUGGING

a.   Prior to the Well plugging, the Geologic Storage Operator must flush each Class
     VI UIC Well with a buffer Fluid, determine bottomhole reservoir Pressure, and
     perform a final external mechanical integrity test.

b.   Well plugging plan. The Geologic Storage Operator of a Class VI UIC Well
     must prepare, maintain, and comply with a well plugging plan that is acceptable
     to the Commission. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved
     plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition
     of the permit. The Well plugging plan must be submitted as part of the Class VI
     Development Plan application and must include the following information:

     (1)   Appropriate tests or measures for determining bottomhole reservoir
           Pressure;

     (2)   Appropriate testing methods to ensure external mechanical integrity
           pursuant to Rule 1419;

     (3)   The type and number of plugs to be used;

     (4)   The placement of each plug, including the elevation of the top and bottom
           of each plug;

     (5)   The type, grade, and quantity of material to be used in plugging. The
           material must be compatible with the Carbon Dioxide Stream; and

     (6)   The method of placement of the plugs.

c.   Notice of intent to plug. The Geologic Storage Operator must file a Form 6
     notifying the Director pursuant to Rule 1421, at least 60 days before plugging of a
     Well. At this time, if any changes have been made to the original Well plugging
     plan, the Geologic Storage Operator must also provide the revised Well plugging
     plan. The Director may allow for a shorter notice period. Any amendments to the
     Well plugging plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into
     the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements of Rule 1413,
     as appropriate.




                                                                                    627
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

d.   Plugging report. Within 60 days after plugging, the Geologic Storage Operator
     must submit, pursuant to Rule 1421, via a Form 6-Subsequent, a plugging report
     to the Director. The report must be certified as accurate by the Geologic Storage
     Operator and by the person who performed the plugging operation (if other than
     the Geologic Storage Operator). The Geologic Storage Operator must retain the
     Well Plugging report for 10 years following Site Closure.

e.   In addition to the plugging requirements described in Rule 1422.a–d, Geologic
     Storage Operators must also comply with Rules 434.b.(1)-(2) and (3).A–B and D
     for temporary abandonment.

1423. POST-INJECTION SITE CARE AND SITE CLOSURE

a.   The Geologic Storage Operator must prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan
     for Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure that meets the requirements of Rule
     1423.b and is acceptable to the Commission. The requirement to maintain and
     implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the
     requirement is a condition of the permit.

     (1)   The Geologic Storage Operator must submit the Post-Injection Site Care
           and Site Closure plan as a part of the Class VI Development Plan
           application to be approved by the Commission.

     (2)   The Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan must include the
           following information:

           A.     The Pressure differential between pre-injection and predicted post-
                  injection Pressures in the Injection Zone(s);

           B.     The predicted position of the Carbon Dioxide Plume and associated
                  Pressure Front at Site Closure as demonstrated in the Geologic
                  Storage Area of Review evaluation pursuant to Rule 1414.c.(1);

           C.     A description of post-injection monitoring locations, methods, and
                  proposed frequency;

           D.     A proposed schedule for submitting Post-Injection Site Care
                  monitoring results to the Director pursuant to monitoring proposed
                  in the Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan and any
                  applicable reporting per Rule 1421; and

           E.     The proposed duration of Post-Injection Site Care that ensures
                  non-endangerment of USDWs.

     (3)   Upon cessation of injection, the Geologic Storage Operator must either
           submit an amended Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan or
           demonstrate to the Director through monitoring data and modeling results
           that no amendment to the plan is needed. Any amendments to the Post-



                                                                                   628
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan must be approved by the
           Director, be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit
           modification requirements of Rule 1413, as appropriate.

     (4)   At any time during the life of the Geologic Storage project, the Geologic
           Storage Operator may modify and resubmit the Post-Injection Site Care
           and Site Closure plan for the Director's approval within 30 days of such
           change.

b.   The Geologic Storage Operator must monitor the site following the cessation of
     injection to show the position of the Carbon Dioxide Plume and Pressure Front
     and demonstrate that USDWs are not being endangered.

     (1)   Following the cessation of injection, the Geologic Storage Operator must
           continue to conduct monitoring as specified in the Director-approved Post-
           Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan for at least 50 years or for the
           duration of the alternative timeframe approved by the Commission
           pursuant to Rule 1423.c, unless they make a demonstration under Rule
           1423.b.(2) of this section. The monitoring must continue until the Geologic
           Storage Operations no longer poses an endangerment to USDWs and the
           demonstration under Rule 1423.b.(2) of this section is submitted and
           approved by the Director.

     (2)   If the Geologic Storage Operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
           the Director before 50 years or prior to the end of the approved alternative
           timeframe based on monitoring and other site-specific data, that the
           Geologic Storage Operations no longer pose an endangerment to public
           health, safety, welfare, the environment, including USDWs, or wildlife
           resources the Director may approve an amendment to the Post-Injection
           Site Care and Site Closure plan to reduce the frequency of monitoring or
           may authorize Site Closure before the end of the 50-year period or prior to
           the end of the approved alternative timeframe, where the Director has
           substantial evidence that the Geologic Storage project no longer poses a
           risk of endangerment to public health, safety, welfare, the environment,
           including USDWs, or wildlife resources.

     (3)   Prior to authorization for Site Closure, the Geologic Storage Operator
           must submit to the Director for review and approval a demonstration,
           based on monitoring and other site-specific data, that no additional
           monitoring is needed to ensure that the Geologic Storage project does not
           pose an endangerment to USDWs.

     (4)   If the demonstration in Rule 1423.b.(3) cannot be made (i.e., additional
           monitoring is needed to ensure that the Geologic Storage Operations do
           not pose an endangerment to USDWs) at the end of the 50-year period or
           at the end of the approved alternative timeframe, or if the Director does
           not approve the demonstration, the Geologic Storage Operator must




                                                                                      629
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           submit to the Director a plan to continue Post-Injection Site Care until a
           demonstration can be made and approved by the Director.

     (5)   Prior to approval of Site Closure, the Geologic Storage Operator must
           reclaim all remaining Geologic Storage Facilities at the Geologic Storage
           Location pursuant to Rule 1434, unless otherwise approved by the
           Director.

c.   Demonstration of alternative Post-Injection Site Care timeframe. At the
     Commission’s discretion, the Commission may approve, in consultation with
     EPA, an alternative Post-Injection Site Care timeframe other than the 50 year
     default, if a Geologic Storage Operator can demonstrate during the permitting
     process that an alternative Post-Injection Site Care timeframe is appropriate and
     ensures non-endangerment of USDWs. The demonstration must be based on
     significant, site-specific data and information including all data and information
     collected pursuant to Rules 1407 and 1411, and must contain substantial
     evidence that the Geologic Storage project will no longer pose a risk of
     endangerment to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, including
     USDWs, or wildlife resources at the end of the alternative Post-Injection Site
     Care timeframe.

     (1)   A demonstration of an alternative Post-Injection Site Care timeframe must
           include consideration and documentation of:

           A.     The results of computational modeling performed pursuant to
                  delineation of the Geologic Storage Area of Review under Rule
                  1414;

           B.     The predicted timeframe for Pressure decline within the Injection
                  Zone, and any other zones, such that Formation Fluids may not be
                  forced into any USDWs; and/or the timeframe for Pressure decline
                  to pre-injection Pressures;

           C.     The predicted rate of Carbon Dioxide Plume migration within the
                  Injection Zone, and the predicted timeframe for the cessation of
                  migration;

           D.     A description of the site-specific processes that will result in Carbon
                  Dioxide trapping including immobilization by capillary trapping,
                  dissolution, and mineralization at the site;

           E.     The predicted rate of Carbon Dioxide trapping in the immobile
                  capillary phase, dissolved phase, and/or mineral phase;

           F.     The results of laboratory analyses, research studies, and/or field or
                  site-specific studies to verify the information required in Rule
                  1423.c.(1).D & E;




                                                                                     630
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           G.    A characterization of the Confining Zone(s) including a
                 demonstration that it is free of transmissive Faults, fractures, and
                 micro-fractures and of appropriate thickness, permeability, and
                 integrity to impede Fluid (e.g., Carbon Dioxide, Formation Fluids)
                 movement;

           H.    The presence of potential conduits for Fluid movement including
                 planned Injection Wells and project monitoring wells associated
                 with the proposed Geologic Storage project or any other projects in
                 proximity to the predicted/modeled, final extent of the Carbon
                 Dioxide Plume and area of elevated Pressure;

           I.    A description of the well construction and an assessment of the
                 quality of plugs of all Abandoned Wells within the Geologic Storage
                 Area of Review;

           J.    The distance between the Injection Zone and the nearest USDWs
                 above and/or below the Injection Zone; and

           K.    Any additional site-specific factors required by the Commission.

     (2)   Information submitted to support the demonstration pursuant to Rule
           1423.c.(1) must meet the following criteria:

           A.    All analyses and tests performed to support the demonstration must
                 be accurate, reproducible, and performed in accordance with the
                 established quality assurance standards;

           B.    Estimation techniques must be appropriate and EPA–certified test
                 protocols must be used where available;

           C.    Predictive models must be appropriate and tailored to the site
                 conditions, composition of the Carbon Dioxide Stream and injection
                 and site conditions over the life of the Geologic Storage project;

           D.    Predictive models must be calibrated using existing information
                 (e.g., at Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental technology well
                 sites) where sufficient data are available;

           E.    Reasonably conservative values and modeling assumptions must
                 be used and disclosed to the Commission whenever values are
                 estimated on the basis of known, historical information instead of
                 site-specific measurements;

           F.    An analysis must be performed to identify and assess aspects of
                 the alternative Post-Injection Site Care timeframe demonstration
                 that contribute significantly to uncertainty. The Geologic Storage
                 Operator must conduct sensitivity analyses to determine the effect



                                                                                    631
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                   that significant uncertainty may contribute to the modeling
                   demonstration.

            G.     An approved quality assurance and quality control plan must
                   address all aspects of the demonstration; and,

            H.     Any additional criteria required by the Commission.

d.   Notice of Intent for Site Closure. The Geologic Storage Operator must notify the
     Director in writing at least 120 days before Site Closure or as Approved by the
     Commission pursuant to Rule 1423.c. At this time, if any changes have been
     made to the original Post-Injection Site Care and Site Closure plan, the Geologic
     Storage Operator must also provide the revised plan. The Director may allow for
     a shorter notice period.

e.   After the Director has authorized Site Closure, the Geologic Storage Operator
     must plug all monitoring wells in a manner which will not allow movement of
     injection or Formation Fluids that endangers a USDW.

f.   The Geologic Storage Operator must submit a Site Closure report to the Director
     within 90 days of Site Closure, which must thereafter be retained at a location
     designated by the Director for 10 years. The report must include:

     (1)    Documentation of appropriate injection and monitoring Well plugging as
            specified in Rule 1422 and Rule 1423.e. The Geologic Storage Operator
            must provide a copy of a survey plat which has been submitted to the local
            zoning authority designated by the Director. The plat must indicate the
            location of the Injection Well relative to permanently surveyed
            benchmarks. The Geologic Storage Operator must also submit a copy of
            the plat to the EPA Regional Administrator of the appropriate EPA
            Regional Office;

     (2)    Documentation of appropriate notification and information to such State,
            local and Tribal authorities that have authority over drilling activities to
            enable such State, local, and Tribal authorities to impose appropriate
            conditions on subsequent drilling activities that may penetrate the Injection
            and Confining Zone(s); and

     (3)    Records reflecting the nature, composition, and volume of the Carbon
            Dioxide Stream.

g.   Each Geologic Storage Operator must record a notation on the deed to the
     facility property or any other document that is normally examined during title
     search that will in perpetuity provide any potential purchaser of the property the
     following information:

     (1)    The fact that Pore Space has been used to sequester Injection Carbon
            Dioxide;



                                                                                     632
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (2)   The name of the State agency, local authority, and/or Tribe with which the
           survey plat was filed, as well as the address of the EPA Regional Office to
           which it was submitted; and

     (3)   The volume of Fluid injected, the Injection Zone or Zones into which it was
           injected, and the period over which injection occurred.



h.   The Geologic Storage Operator must retain for 10 years following Site Closure,
     records collected during the post- injection site care period. The Geologic
     Storage Operator must deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the
     retention period, and the records must thereafter be retained at a location
     designated by the Director for that purpose.

i.   If a Geologic Storage Operator makes a material misrepresentation or omission
     that causes the Director to approve site closure pursuant to this Rule 1423, the
     Commission may reimpose any regulatory requirements pursuant to the
     Commission’s Rules, including the financial responsibility requirements of Rule
     1415.

1424. EMERGENCY AND REMEDIAL RESPONSE

a.   As part of the permit application, the Geologic Storage Operator must provide the
     Commission with an Emergency and Remedial Response Plan that describes
     actions the Geologic Storage Operator must take to address movement of the
     injection or Formation Fluids that may cause an endangerment to a USDW or
     adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or wildlife
     resources during construction, operation, and Post-Injection Site Care periods.
     The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly
     enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.

b.   If the Geologic Storage Operator obtains evidence that the injected Carbon
     Dioxide Stream and associated Pressure Front may cause an endangerment to a
     USDW or adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the environment, or
     wildlife resources, the Geologic Storage Operator must:

     (1)   Immediately cease injection;

     (2)   Take all steps reasonably necessary to identify and characterize any
           release;

     (3)   Notify the Director within 24 hours; and

     (4)   Implement the Emergency and Remedial Response Plan approved by the
           Commission.




                                                                                   633
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.    The Director may allow the operator to resume injection prior to remediation if the
      Geologic Storage Operator demonstrates that the injection operation will not
      endanger USDWs or cause adverse impacts to public health, safety, welfare, the
      environment, or wildlife resources.

d.    The Geologic Storage Operator must periodically review the Emergency and
      Remedial Response Plan developed pursuant to Rule 1424.a. In no case will the
      Geologic Storage Operator review the Emergency and Remedial Response Plan
      less often than once every five years. Based on this review, the Geologic Storage
      Operator must submit an amended Emergency and Remedial Response Plan or
      demonstrate to the Director that no amendment to the Emergency and Remedial
      Response Plan is needed. Any amendments to the Emergency and Remedial
      Response Plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into the
      permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at Rule 1413, as
      appropriate. Amended plans or demonstrations must be submitted to the Director
      as follows:

      (1)    Within one year of an Geologic Storage Area of Review re-evaluation;

      (2)    Following any significant changes to the facility, such as addition of
             injection or monitoring wells, on a schedule determined by the Director; or

      (3)    When required by the Director.

1425. CLASS VI INJECTION DEPTH WAIVER REQUIREMENTS

This section sets forth information which an Geologic Storage Operator seeking a
waiver of the Class VI injection depth requirements must submit to the Director or
Commission; information the Director or Commission must consider in consultation with
all affected Public Water System Supervision Directors; the procedure for Director or
Commission- EPA Regional Administrator communication and waiver issuance; and the
additional requirements that apply to Geologic Storage Operators of Class VI UIC Wells
granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements.

a.    In seeking a waiver of the requirement to inject below the lowermost USDW, the
      Geologic Storage Operator must submit a supplemental report concurrent with
      permit application. The supplemental report must include the following,

      (1)    A demonstration that the Injection Zone(s) is/are laterally continuous, is
             not a USDW, and is not hydraulically connected to USDWs; does not
             outcrop within the Area of Review; has adequate injectivity, volume, and
             sufficient porosity to safely contain the injected Injection Carbon Dioxide
             and Formation Fluids; and has appropriate geochemistry.

      (2)    A demonstration that the Injection Zone(s) is/are bounded by laterally
             continuous, impermeable confining units above and below the Injection
             Zone(s) adequate to prevent Fluid movement and Pressure buildup
             outside of the Injection Zone(s); and that the confining unit(s) is/are free of



                                                                                        634
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           transmissive Faults and fractures. The report must further characterize the
           regional structural regime, including fracture properties, and contain a
           demonstration that such fractures will not interfere with injection, serve as
           conduits, or endanger USDWs.

     (3)   A demonstration, using computational modeling, that USDWs above and
           below the Injection Zone will not be endangered as a result of Fluid
           movement. This modeling should be conducted in conjunction with the
           Geologic Storage Area of Review determination, as described in Rule
           1414, and is subject to requirements pursuant to Rule 1414.c, and
           periodic reevaluation, pursuant to Rule 1414.e.

     (4)   A demonstration that well design and construction, in conjunction with the
           waiver, will ensure isolation of the injectate in lieu of requirements at Rule
           1416.a.(1) and will meet well construction requirements in Rule 1425.f.

     (5)   A description of how the monitoring and testing and any additional plans
           will be tailored to the Geologic Storage project to ensure protection of
           USDWs above and below the Injection Zone(s), if a waiver is granted.

     (6)   Information on the location of all public water supplies affected,
           reasonably likely to be affected, or served by USDWs in the Geologic
           Storage Area of Review.

     (7)   Any other information requested by the Director to inform the EPA
           Regional Administrator's decision to issue a waiver.

b.   To inform the EPA Regional Administrator's decision on whether to grant a
     waiver of the injection depth requirements at 40 C.F.R.§§ 144.6 (2024), 146.5(f)
     (2024), and Rule 1416.a.(1), the Director must submit, to the EPA Regional
     Administrator, documentation of the following:

     (1)   An evaluation of the following information as it relates to siting,
           construction, and operation of a Geologic Storage project with a waiver:

           A.     The integrity of the upper and lower confining units;

           B.     The suitability of the Injection Zone(s) (e.g., lateral continuity; lack
                  of transmissive Faults and fractures; knowledge of current or
                  planned artificial penetrations into the Injection Zone(s) or
                  Formations below the Injection Zone);

           C.     The potential capacity of the geologic Formation(s) to sequester
                  Injection Carbon Dioxide, accounting for the availability of
                  alternative injection sites;




                                                                                        635
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           D.     All other site characterization data, the proposed Emergency and
                  Remedial Response Plan, and a demonstration of financial
                  responsibility;

           E.     Community needs, demands, and supply from drinking water
                  resources;

           F.     Planned needs, potential and/or future use of USDWs and non-
                  USDW aquifers in the area;

           G.     Planned or permitted water, hydrocarbon, or mineral resource
                  exploitation potential of the proposed injection Formation(s) and
                  other Formations both above and below the Injection Zone to
                  determine if there are any plans to drill through the Formation to
                  access resources in or beneath the proposed Injection
                  Zone(s)/Formation(s);

           H.     The proposed plan for securing alternative resources or treating
                  USDW Formation waters in the event of contamination related to
                  the Class VI injection activity; and,

           I.     Any other applicable considerations or information requested by the
                  Director.

     (2)   Consultation with the Public Water System Supervision Directors of all
           States and Tribes having jurisdiction over lands within the Geologic
           Storage Area of Review of a Well for which a waiver is sought.

     (3)   Any written waiver-related information submitted by the Public Water
           System Supervision Director(s) to the Director or Commission.

c.   Concurrent with the notice of completeness for the Class VI Development Plan
     application pursuant Rule 1406.b.(2).A, the Director or Commission must publish
     the Operator’s notice of proposed depth waiver on the Commission’s website.
     The notice must clearly state:

     (1)   The depth of the proposed Injection Zone(s);

     (2)   The location of the Injection Well(s);

     (3)   The name and depth of all USDWs within the Geologic Storage Area of
           Review;

     (4)   A map of the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

     (5)   The names of any public water supplies affected, reasonably likely to be
           affected, or served by USDWs in the Geologic Storage Area of Review;
           and,



                                                                                       636
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (6)   The results of consultation with Public Water System Supervision
           Directors pursuant to Rule 1425.b.(2).

d.   Following public notice, the Director or Commission must provide all information
     received through the waiver application process to the EPA Regional
     Administrator. Based on the information provided, the EPA Regional
     Administrator shall provide written concurrence or non-concurrence regarding
     waiver issuance.

     (1)   If the EPA Regional Administrator determines that additional information is
           required to support a decision, the Director or Commission must provide
           the information. At their discretion, the EPA Regional Administrator may
           require that public notice of the new information be initiated.

     (2)   In no case shall the Director or Commission issue a waiver without receipt
           of written concurrence from the EPA Regional Administrator.

e.   If a waiver is issued, within 30 days of waiver issuance, EPA must post the
     following information on the Office of Water's website:

     (1)   The depth of the proposed Injection Zone(s);

     (2)   The location of the Injection Well(s);

     (3)   The name and depth of all USDWs within the Geologic Storage Area of
           Review;

     (4)   A map of the Geologic Storage Area of Review;

     (5)   The names of any public water supplies affected, reasonably likely to be
           affected, or served by USDWs in the Geologic Storage Area of Review;
           and

     (6)   The date of waiver issuance.

f.   Upon receipt of a waiver of the requirement to inject below the lowermost USDW
     for Geologic Storage, the Geologic Storage Operator of the Class VI UIC Well
     must comply with:

     (1)   All requirements at Rules 1414, 1415, 1417, 1418, 1419, 1421, 1422, and
           1424;

     (2)   All requirements of Rule 1416 with the following modified requirements:

           A.     The Geologic Storage Operator must ensure that Class VI UIC
                  Wells with a waiver are constructed and completed to prevent
                  movement of Fluids into any unauthorized zones including USDWs,
                  in lieu of requirements at Rule 1416.a.(1).




                                                                                   637
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           B.    The Casing and Cementing program must be designed to prevent
                 the movement of Fluids into any unauthorized zones including
                 USDWs in lieu of requirements at Rule 1416.b.(1).

           C.    The fully cemented Surface Casing, or combination of fully-
                 cemented surface casing and stage cement for other casing
                 string(s) must extend through the base of the nearest USDW
                 directly above the Injection Zone and be cemented to the surface;
                 or, at the Director or Commission discretion, another Formation
                 above the Injection Zone and below the nearest USDW above the
                 Injection Zone.

     (3)   All requirements of Rule 1420 with the following modified requirements:

           A.    The Geologic Storage Operator must monitor the groundwater
                 quality, geochemical changes, and Pressure in the first USDWs
                 immediately above and below the Injection Zone(s); and in any
                 other Formations at the discretion of the Director.

           B.    Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the Carbon Dioxide
                 Plume and the presence or absence of elevated Pressure (e.g., the
                 Pressure Front) by using direct methods to monitor for Pressure
                 changes in the Injection Zone(s); and, indirect methods (e.g.,
                 seismic, electrical, gravity, or electromagnetic surveys and/or down-
                 hole carbon dioxide detection tools), unless the Director or
                 Commission determines, based on site-specific geology, that such
                 methods are not appropriate.

     (4)   All requirements of Rule 1423 with the following, modified Post-Injection
           Site Care monitoring requirements:

           A.    The Geologic Storage Operator must monitor the groundwater
                 quality, geochemical changes and Pressure in the first USDWs
                 immediately above and below the Injection Zone; and in any other
                 Formations at the discretion of the Director.

           B.    Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the Carbon Dioxide
                 Plume and the presence or absence of elevated Pressure (e.g., the
                 Pressure Front) by using direct methods in the Injection Zone(s);
                 and indirect methods (e.g., seismic, electrical, gravity, or
                 electromagnetic surveys and/ or down-hole carbon dioxide
                 detection tools), unless the Director or Commission determines
                 based on site- specific geology, that such methods are not
                 appropriate;

     (5)   Any additional requirements required by the Director or Commission
           designed to ensure protection of USDWs above and below the Injection
           Zone(s).



                                                                                   638
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1426. TRANSITIONING FROM CLASS II TO CLASS VI

a.   Operators that are injecting Injection Carbon Dioxide pursuant to a Class II UIC
     permit for the primary purpose of long-term storage into an oil and gas reservoir
     must apply for and obtain an approved Class VI Development Plan Permit when
     there is an increased risk to USDWs compared to Class II operations.

b.   The Director must determine when there is an increased risk to USDWs
     compared to Class II operations and a Class VI permit is required. In order to
     make this determination the Director must consider the following:

     (1)    Increase in reservoir Pressure within the Injection Zone(s);

     (2)    Increase in Injection Carbon Dioxide injection rates;

     (3)    Decrease in reservoir production rates;

     (4)    Distance between the Injection Zone(s) and USDWs;

     (5)    Suitability of the Class II Area of Review delineation;

     (6)    Quality of Abandoned Well Plugs within the Geologic Storage Area of
            Review;

     (7)    The Operator’s plan for recovery of Injection Carbon Dioxide at the
            cessation of injection;

     (8)    The source and properties of injected Injection Carbon Dioxide; and

     (9)    Any additional site-specific factors as determined by the Director.

c.   If the Director determines there is an increased risk to USDWs compared to
     Class II operations and a Class VI permit is required, the Director will submit a
     written recommendation to the Commission.

d.   Upon receiving a recommendation pursuant to Rule 1426.c, the Commission will
     hold a hearing to determine whether the Operator will be required to obtain a
     Class VI UIC Permit or perform other actions necessary and reasonable for the
     protection of USDWs. The Operator may waive its right to a Commission hearing
     pursuant to this Rule 1426.d.

1427. GEOLOGIC STORAGE UNITS

a.   Upon the application of the Geologic Storage Operator, any owner of a
     Sequestration Estate included within the predicted extent of the Carbon Dioxide
     Plume at Site Closure, or upon the Commission’s own motion, the Commission
     will hold a hearing to consider the need for a Geologic Storage Unit.




                                                                                      639
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

b.   The application must include a proposed Geologic Storage Unit Plan, which must
     include;

     (1)   A description of the Geologic Storage Unit Area;

     (2)   A description of the operations that will be conducted in the Geologic
           Storage Unit Area;

     (3)   A determination of the percentage of each Geologic Storage Resource
           allocated to each separately owned Sequestration Estate within the
           Geologic Storage Unit Area;

     (4)   A description of the method by which each owner of a Sequestration
           Estate included in the Geologic Storage Unit Area will be allocated
           equitable compensation related to the use of the Sequestration Estate
           based on the predicted extent of the Carbon Dioxide Plume at Site
           Closure;

     (5)   A description of the manner in which the Geologic Storage Unit Area will
           be supervised and managed and, if applicable, how costs related to
           operations of the Geologic Storage Unit will be allocated and paid;

     (6)   The time when operations of the Geologic Storage Unit will commence
           and the manner in which, and the circumstances under which, operations
           of the Geologic Storage Unit will terminate; and

c.   The Geologic Storage Unit Area must include the predicted extent of the Carbon
     Dioxide Plume at Site Closure associated with the Geologic Storage Operations,
     and must be based on site characterization, modeling, and monitoring conducted
     pursuant to Rule 1414.c.(1) & e.

     (1)   If a Geologic Storage Operator’s reevaluation of the Geologic Storage
           Area of Review results in a material change to the Geologic Storage Unit
           Area, within six months from the reevaluation of the Geologic Storage
           Area of Review the Geologic Storage Operator must file an application
           with the Commission for a hearing pursuant to Rule 503.g.(14) to amend
           the Unit Order to expand or contract the Unit Area, as appropriate.



d.   The Commission will enter an order providing for the formation of a Geologic
     Storage Unit if the Commission finds that the Geologic Storage Unit is
     reasonably necessary to effectuate a Geologic Storage project. A Geologic
     Storage Unit Order is effective only if the Geologic Storage Unit Plan has been
     approved in writing by those persons that collectively own at least 75% of the
     Geologic Storage Resources included in the Geologic Storage Unit Area.

e.   A Geologic Storage Unit Order must:



                                                                                    640
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Include terms and conditions that are just and reasonable; and

     (2)   Approve a Geologic Storage Unit Plan, which will include any additional
           provisions that Commission finds to be necessary and reasonable for
           conducting operations of the Geologic Storage Unit and for the protection
           of correlative rights.

f.   A Geologic Storage Unit order may be amended by an order made by the
     Commission in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as the
     original Geologic Storage Unit Order.

g.   Any owner of a Sequestration Estate included in the Geologic Storage Unit Area
     that is not included in the Geologic Storage Unit Order may petition the
     Commission for inclusion in the Geologic Storage Unit Order.

h.   A Geologic Storage Unit order is not effective until the Geologic Storage
     Operator has been issued a Class VI UIC Well permit from the Commission.

1428. GENERAL PROVISIONS

a.   Geologic Storage Operators are subject to the provisions of Rules 201–204,
     205.a–c.(1), 205.c.(4), 206.a, 206.b.(1)–(2), 206.b.(5)–(6), 206.c–e, 207, 208,
     209.a–b, 210, 212–213, 216, and, 221–223.

b.   Gas Compressor Stations. Geologic Storage Operators who utilize gas
     compressor stations must comply with Rule 220.a.(1), (2), and (4), 220.b, and
     220.c.

c.   The provisions of Rule 215 apply to Local Governments in the context of
     Geologic Storage Operations.

1429. OPERATIONS AND REPORTING

a.   Use of Form 4, Sundry Notices, and Form 42, Field Operations Notice.
     Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules 404 and 405.

b.   Location Construction. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules
     406 and 407.

c.   General Drilling Rules. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule
     408.a–p., and 408.s–aa.

d.   Directional Drilling. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 410.

e.   Public Water System Protection and Surface Owner Notice. Geologic
     Storage Operators must comply with Rules 411 and 412.




                                                                                       641
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

f.   Drilling Completion Report and Completed Interval Report. Geologic Storage
     Operators must comply with Rules 414 and 416.

g.   Mechanical Integrity Tests. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with
     Rules 417.b–g.

h.   Bradenhead Testing, Monitoring, and Reporting. Geologic Storage Operators
     must comply with Rules 419 and 420.

i.   Statewide Floodplain Requirements. Geologic Storage Operators must comply
     with Rule 421.

j.   Local Government Welfare Protection Standards. Geologic Storage
     Operators must comply with Rule 422.

k.   Noise, Lighting, Visual Impact, Odor, and Dust. Geologic Storage Operators
     must comply with Rules 423–427.

l.   Well Control. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 428.

m.   Measurement and reporting of Produced, Reused, Recycled, and Injected
     Water. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 431 when reporting
     Fluids.

n.   Seismic Operations and Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Additives. Geologic
     Storage Operators must comply with Rules 436 and 437.

1430. RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

a.   Geologic Storage Operators are subject to the Rules of Practice and Procedure
     found at Rules 501–505 and 507–530.

1431. SAFETY AND FACILITY OPERATIONS

a.   General Safety Requirements. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with
     Rules 601 and 602.

b.   Operational and Safety Requirements. Geologic Storage Operators must
     comply with Rule 603.a–d. and Rule 603.g–o.

     (1)   As to Rule 603.o., Geologic Storage Operators must design, construct,
           and maintain secondary containment devices as necessary during drilling
           and completion operations. Where secondary containment devices are not
           necessary during injection operations, Geologic Storage Operators must
           remove such secondary containment devices from the Geologic Storage
           Location.




                                                                                642
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.   Signage Requirements for Geologic Storage Locations. Geologic Storage
     Operators must comply with Rules 605.a–d. and 605.g–h.

d.   Equipment, Weeds, Waste, and Trash Requirements. Geologic Storage
     Operators must comply with Rules 606 and 607.

e.   Geologic Storage Facility Safety and Operations. Geologic Storage Operators
     must comply with Rule 608.c–g.

f.   Inspections. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules 609.a. and
     609.d.

g.   Hydrogen Sulfide Gas. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 612.

h.   Groundwater Baseline Sampling. Geologic Storage Operators must comply
     with Rule 615. Geologic Storage Operators must conduct and report
     Groundwater baseline sampling and reporting for Geologic Storage Monitoring
     Wells.

i.   Other Safety and Facility Operations Requirements. Geologic Storage
     Operators must comply with Rules 610, 611, and 613.

1432. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PREVENTION

a.   General Standards. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 901.

b.   Pollution. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 902.

c.   Venting or Flaring Natural Gas. Venting and Flaring is prohibited for Geologic
     Storage Operations, except that Geologic Storage Operators must comply with
     Rule 903.c.(3).C when Flaring is necessary to ensure safety or during an Upset
     Condition.

d.   Management of Waste. Wastes associated with Geologic Storage Operations
     do not qualify as E&P Waste and cannot be managed pursuant to Rule 905.
     When managing wastes associated with Geologic Storage Operations, Geologic
     Storage Operators must comply with Rule 906.

e.   Pits. Geologic Storage Operators must not utilize pits in association with
     Geologic Storage Operators

f.   Spill and Releases. With the exception of Grade 1 Gas Leaks and Injection
     Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic Storage Operations, Spills and
     Releases associated with Geologic Storage Operators do not constitute Spills
     and Releases of E&P Waste. Geologic Storage Operators must report and
     manage Spills and Releases associated with Geologic Storage Operations in
     accordance with applicable CDPHE rules.




                                                                                  643
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

1433. GAS LEAKS ASSOCIATED WITH GEOLOGIC STORAGE OPERATIONS

a.   Gas Leaks. This Rule 1433 applies to any gas leak associated with Geologic
     Storage Operations including, but not limited to, Grade 1 Gas Leaks and Injection
     Carbon Dioxide gas leaks.

     (1)   Reporting Gas Leaks. Geologic Storage Operators must report all Grade
           1 Gas Leaks and Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic
           Storage Operations in accordance with Rules 912.b.(1).D, I, and J, and
           Rules 912.b.(2)–(5).

           A.     In response to the Form 19 – Supplemental required by Rule
                  912.b.(4), the Director must attach conditions for closure specifying
                  conditions which the Geologic Storage Operator will meet before
                  the remediation will be considered complete pursuant to Rule
                  1433.i.

     (2)   Continued Reporting of Gas Leaks. No later than 30 days after a
           Geologic Storage Operator discovers a Grade 1 Gas leak or Injection
           Carbon Dioxide leak associated with Geologic Storage Operations, the
           Operator must submit:

           A.     A Form 19 – Supplemental requesting closure.

           B.     A Form 27. The Remediation will continue under the Form 27,
                  which will include the conditions of closure described in the Form
                  19 – Supplemental pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(2).A.

           C.     On the Form 27 submitted pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(2).B, the
                  Operator must provide information about general liability insurance
                  pursuant to Rule 705.

b.   External Notifications and Reporting. For Grade 1 Gas Leaks or Injection
     Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic Storage Operations, Geologic
     Storage Operators must comply with Rules 912.b.(7)–(11).

c.   Gas Leak Prevention. As to Grade 1 Gas Leaks or Injection Carbon Dioxide
     leaks associated with Geologic Storage Operations, Geologic Storage Operators
     must comply with Rules 912.d.

d.   Changes of Operator. Within 60 days of the Director’s approval of a transfer of
     operatorship pursuant to Rule 1413.e, the Buying Operator must submit a
     supplemental Form 19 designating the responsible Operator for each open
     Grade 1 Gas Leak or Injection Carbon Dioxide leak associated with Geologic
     Storage Operations.

e.   Site Investigation and Remediation Requirements.




                                                                                   644
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

     (1)   Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 913.a. for Grade 1
           Gas Leaks or Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic
           Storage Operations.

     (2)   Site Investigation and Remediation Workplan. Geologic Storage
           Operators must comply with Rule 913.b.(1) for Grade 1 Gas Leaks or
           Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic Storage
           Operations.

     (3)   Sampling and Analysis. Geologic Storage Operators must conduct
           sampling and analysis of soil and Groundwater pursuant to the
           remediation conditions set pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A to determine the
           horizontal and vertical extent of any contamination in excess of the
           cleanup concentrations in the remediation conditions set pursuant to Rule
           1433.a.(1).A or in WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative
           Groundwater quality standards and classifications, as incorporated by
           reference in Rule 901.b.

           A.    Sampling and analyses will be required to profile the contamination,
                 delineate extent of contamination, and confirm compliance with
                 applicable standards upon completion of Remediation.

           B.    Laboratory method detection limits must be less than or equal to
                 the remediation conditions set pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A or
                 WQCC Regulation 41 standards, as incorporated by reference in
                 Rule 901.b.

           C.    Composite sample results may be submitted for preliminary
                 analysis and contamination profiling. Discrete sample results will be
                 required for confirmation sampling.

     (4)   Management of Investigation-Derived Waste. Investigation-Derived
           Waste must be managed pursuant to Rule 906.

     (5)   Remediation.

           A.    Remediation must be performed in a manner that reduces or
                 removes contamination that exceeds the cleanup concentrations in
                 the remediation conditions set pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A or in
                 WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                 standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                 901.b, and that protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public
                 health, safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

           B.    When conducting Remediation activities, Geologic Storage
                 Operators must comply with Rules 913.b.(5).B.i–v.




                                                                                  645
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           C.     Groundwater that does not meet the cleanup concentrations in the
                  remediation conditions set pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A or WQCC
                  Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                  standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                  901.b, must be remediated pursuant to a Form 27.

     (6)   Surface Reclamation. If the Director approves the closure of a
           Remediation project, the Operator must reclaim the site(s) pursuant to the
           Commission’s 1000 Series Rules.

f.   Implementation and Reporting Schedules. As to Grade 1 Gas Leaks and
     Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic Storage Operations,
     Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules 913.d and e.

g.   Discovery of a Spill or Release During Closure. As to Grade 1 Gas Leaks and
     Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks associated with Geologic Storage Operations,
     Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 913.f.

h.   Changes of Operator. Within 60 days of the Director’s approval of a Form 9 –
     Subsequent pursuant to Rule 1413.e, the Buying Operator must submit a
     supplemental Form 27 designating the responsible Operator for all open
     Remediation projects.

i.   Closure.

     (1)   Remediation will be considered complete when the Geologic Storage
           Operator has demonstrated compliance with:

           A.     The cleanup concentrations in the remediation conditions set
                  pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A;

           B.     WQCC Regulation 41 numeric and narrative Groundwater quality
                  standards and classifications, as incorporated by reference in Rule
                  901.b, if applicable; and

           C.     Any condition of approval of a Form 27.

     (2)   An Operator may request a variance pursuant to Rule 502 to comply with
           an alternative standard in lieu of one or more of the standards in Rules
           1433.i.(1).A. In addition to applying for a variance, the Geologic Storage
           Operator must also submit a Form 27 demonstrating that their alternative
           clean-up process protects and minimizes adverse impacts to public health,
           safety, welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources.

     (3)   For contaminated groundwater where periodic monitoring has been
           required, closure may not occur until after 4 consecutive quarters of
           sampling and analysis demonstrating compliance with the remediation
           conditions set pursuant to Rule 1433.a.(1).A and WQCC Regulation 41



                                                                                   646
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           numeric and narrative Groundwater quality standards and classifications,
           as incorporated by reference in Rule 901.b, if applicable.

     (4)   Notification of Completion. Within 30 days after conclusion of site
           Remediation activities:

           A.     Operators conducting Remediation operations pursuant to an
                  approved Form 27 must submit to the Director a Supplemental
                  Form 27 containing documentation sufficient to demonstrate
                  compliance with the Commission’s Rules.

           B.     Operators must coordinate with the Director through a Form 4
                  regarding additional surface Reclamation required by the
                  Commission’s 1000 Series Rules, if applicable.

j.   Release of Financial Assurance. The demonstration of financial responsibility
     required by Rule 1415 may be held by the Director until the required Remediation
     of soil and/or Groundwater impacts is completed in accordance with the
     approved workplan.

k.   Criteria to Establish Points of Compliance for Injection Carbon Dioxide
     Leaks into an Aquifer. Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 914
     for Injection Carbon Dioxide leaks into an Aquifer.

1434. RECLAMATION

a.   Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1001 through 1004, except
     that Wastes associated with Geologic Storage Operations do not qualify as E&P
     Waste and Geologic Storage Operators must manage such wastes according to
     Rule 906.

b.   Interim reclamation timelines specified in Rule 1003 begin upon the Geologic
     Storage Operator obtaining approval of an authorization to inject.

1435. CARBON DIOXIDE FLOWLINES

a.   Carbon Dioxide Flowline Registration Requirements. As to Carbon Dioxide
     Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1101.a, 1101.b,
     and 1101.d. Domestic taps for Carbon Dioxide Flowlines are not authorized
     under these Rules.

b.   Carbon Dioxide Flowline Requirements.

     (1)   Materials. Carbon Dioxide Flowlines must be made of steel of the carbon,
           low alloy-high strength, or alloy type that is able to withstand the internal
           pressures and external loads and pressures anticipated for the pipeline
           system. Geologic Storage Operators who propose to use non-steel pipe




                                                                                    647
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

           must request a variance and present technical evidence supporting such a
           request pursuant to Rule 502.

     (2)   Applicable Technical Standards. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines,
           Geologic Storage Operators must comply with the technical standards
           established in ASME B31.4-2016, ASME PCC-2-2018, and ASME
           Process Piping 31.3-2016.

           A.    Where Materials May Be Found. Pursuant to § 24-4-103(12.5),
                 C.R.S., the Commission incorporates by reference into these 1400
                 Series Rules the following codes, standards, guidelines, and rules
                 of other federal agencies, state agencies, and nationally recognized
                 organizations and associations.

                 i.     Where Materials May Be Found.

                        aa.   Copies of all materials incorporated by reference are
                              available for public inspection during normal business
                              hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
                              office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
                              801, Denver, Colorado 80203.

                        bb.   Copies of all materials incorporated by reference are
                              also available at the office or website of the agency or
                              organization that issued the code, standard, guideline,
                              or rule, as specified below.

                        cc.   Copies of any materials that are not available to the
                              public on the internet for no cost may be examined at
                              any state publications depository library.

           B.    Materials Incorporated.

                 i.     American Society of Mechanical Engineers (“ASME”),
                        Pipeline Transportation Systems for Liquids and Slurries,
                        B31.4-2016 (herein “ASME B31.4”). Only the 2016 version of
                        ASME B31.4 i applies; later amendments do not apply.
                        ASME B31.4 is available for public inspection during normal
                        business hours from the Public Room Administrator at the
                        office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801,
                        Denver, Colorado 80203, may be examined at the office of
                        the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Two Park
                        Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, and is available online
                        at https://www.asme.org;

                 ii.    ASME, Repair of Pressure Equipment and Piping, PCC 2-
                        2018 (herein “ASME PCC-2-2018”). Only the 2018 version of
                        ASME PCC-2-2018 applies; later amendments do not apply.



                                                                                  648
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

                        ASME PCC-2-2018 is available for public inspection during
                        normal business hours from the Public Room Administrator
                        at the office of the Commission, 1120 Lincoln Street, Suite
                        801, Denver, Colorado 80203, may be examined at the
                        office of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Two
                        Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, and is available
                        online at https://www.asme.org; and

                 iii.   ASME, Process Piping, B31.3-2016 (herein “ASME B31.3”).
                        Only the 2016 version of ASME B31.3 i applies; later
                        amendments do not apply. ASME B31.3 is available for
                        public inspection during normal business hours from the
                        Public Room Administrator at the office of the Commission,
                        1120 Lincoln Street, Suite 801, Denver, Colorado 80203
                        may be examined at the office of the American Society of
                        Mechanical Engineers, Two Park Avenue, New York, NY
                        10016-5990, and is available online at
                        https://www.asme.org.

     (3)   Carbon Dioxide Flowline Design. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines,
           Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1102.c. In addition to
           the requirements in Rule 1102.c, Geologic Storage Operators must design
           Carbon Dioxide Flowlines to mitigate the effects of fracture propagation.

     (4)   Installation, Cover, Management & Reclamation, Marking, and
           Inspection of Carbon Dioxide Flowlines. As to Carbon Dioxide
           Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules 1102.d
           through 1102.h.

     (5)   Maintenance of Carbon Dioxide Flowlines. As to Carbon Dioxide
           Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1102.i.

     (6)   Repair of Carbon Dioxide Flowlines. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines,
           Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1102.j.

     (7)   Operating Requirements for Carbon Dioxide Flowlines. As to Carbon
           Dioxide Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule
           1102.k.

     (8)   Corrosion Control. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines, Geologic Storage
           Operators must comply with Rule 1102.l.

     (9)   Record Keeping, One-Call Participation, and Requirements for Shut-
           In or Out-of-Service Off-Location for Inspection for Carbon Dioxide
           Flowlines. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators
           must comply with Rule 1102.m–o.




                                                                                 649
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

c.    Carbon Dioxide Flowline Valves. As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines, Geologic
      Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1103.

      (1)    Each valve must be marked on the body or the nameplate, with at least
             the following:

             A.     Manufacturer's name or trademark.

             B.     Class designation or the maximum working pressure to which the
                    valve may be subjected.

             C.     Body material designation (the end connection material, if more
                    than one type is used).

             D.     Nominal valve size.

d.    Carbon Dioxide Flowline Integrity Management. As to Carbon Dioxide
      Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1104.a. and
      1104.g.(1).

      (1)    As to Carbon Dioxide Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must
             implement a monitoring method that quantitatively verifies flowline integrity
             and provides leak detection necessary to protect public health, safety, and
             welfare, the environment, and wildlife resources. The method(s) must be
             included in the leak detection and monitoring plan pursuant to 1104.g.(1).
             The leak detection and monitoring plan and any amendments must be
             approved by the Director.

      (2)    Abandonment of Carbon Dioxide Flowlines. As to Carbon Dioxide
             Flowlines, Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rule 1105.

1436. PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES

Geologic Storage Operators must comply with Rules 1201-1203.

1437. SPECIFIC APPLICABILITY OF RULE 211 AND RULE 503.g.(12).B.

Time Limit on Used or Useful for Conversion of an Oil and Gas Well to a Class VI Well.
For applications filed within two years of the effective date of this 1400 Series by
Relevant Local Governments or Surface Owners to require Plugging and Abandonment
of an Oil and Gas Well(s) or closure of an Oil and Gas Location(s) pursuant to Rules
211 and 503.g.(12).B. where the Operator asserts that the Oil and Gas Well(s) and/or
Oil and Gas Location(s) are Used or Useful because the Operator intends to convert the
Oil and Gas Well(s) to a Class VI UIC Well(s), there is a rebuttable presumption that the
wells will be utilized for Geologic Storage Operations. For such applications pursuant to
Rules 211 and 503.g.(12).B. filed more than two years from the effective date of this
1400 Series Rules, if the Operator has not filed an application to convert the Oil and




                                                                                      650
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

Gas Well(s) to a Class VI Well(s), there is a rebuttable presumption that the Oil and Gas
Well(s) is not Used or Useful for Geologic Storage Operations.




                                                                                     651
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


APPENDIX III      FEE STRUCTURE

                               As of July 1, 1999
                    DRILLING PERMIT                       Form 2     $0/well
                    RECOMPLETION PERMIT                   Form 2     $0/well
                    PIT PERMIT                            Form 15    $0/pit
                    CHANGE OF OPERATOR                    Form 10    $0/well
                    DISPOSAL/INJECTION PERMIT             Form 2     $0/well
                    OFFSITE LAND TREATMENT                Form 28    $0/site
                    HEARING APPLICATION                              $0
                    HEARING PROTEST/INTERVENTION                     $0
                    GENERAL MAILING SUBSCRIPTION                     $0/year



APPENDIX VI       PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS

Rule 317B: Public Water System Surface Water Supply Area Map




                                                                               652
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

   Appendix VI: List of Public Water Systems Subject to Protections of Rule 317B

             PWSID         SYS_NAME                         April-
                                                            09
             107115        Allenspark WC
             147001        Alma, Town of
             207115        Alpine Brook WS
             CO025900      ARAPAHOE BASIN SKI
             2             AREA
             126121        Arrowhead Ranch WC
             130001        Arvada, City of
             249129        Aspen Ski Corp - Garrett
             249130        Aspen Ski Corp - Hi Alpin
             249131        Aspen Ski Corp - Rack-Elk
             149122        Aspen, City of
             103005        Aurora, City of
             155200        Baca Grande W&SD/Chalets
             147010        Bailey W&SD
             135134        Bald Mtn WA
             123133        Battlement Mesa MD
             134030        Bayfield, Town of
             230141        Bear CreekLakePark-BearCk
             230140        Bear CreekLakePark-Turkey
             221040        Bear Trap Ranch
             235139        Ben Delatour Boys Camp
             135138        Berthoud, Town of
             151100        Beulah Water Works Dist
             135143        Big Elk Meadows WA
             124147        Black Hawk, City of
             107152        Boulder, City of
             215202        Bowie Mine #2
             259005        Breckenridge Ski
             159020        Breckenridge, Town of
             107155        Broomfield, City of
             108300        Buena Vista, Town of
             130050        Buffalo Park Development
             247012        Camp Santa Maria WC
             122100        Canon City, City of
             123167        Carbondale, Town of
             135476        Carter Lake FP
             210009        CDOT - Eisenhower Tunnel
             259023        CDOT - Vail Pass RestArea
             115171        Cedaredge, Town of




                                                                                   653
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            118015     Centennial W&SD/Highlands
            124171     Central City, City of
            235175     Cheley Colorado Camp
            139180     Clifton WD
            225116     CLIMAX - Henderson Mill
            210001     CLIMAX - Henderson Mine
            CO023330   CLIMAX-CLIMAX MINE
            0
            139185     Collbran, Town of
            225168     Colo. River Water CD
            151200     Colorado City MD
            121150     Colorado Springs, City of
            234200     Colorado Trails LTD
            241186     Colo-Wyo Coal Company
            230225     Conifer High School
            130020     Cons Mutual/MAPLE GROVE
            230020     Coors Brewing Company
            142200     Cortez, City of
            141188     Craig, City of
            126188     Crested Butte, Town of
            160100     Cripple Creek, City of
            CO022126   CRYSTAL KANGAROO
            0          CAMPGRO
            128100     Cuchara W&SD
            222330     Cuttys Hayden Creek Reso
            139205     De Beque, Town of
            116001     Denver Water Board
            159040     Dillon Valley MD
            159035     Dillon, Town of
            142400     Dolores, Town of
            117300     Dove Creek, Town of
            134150     Durango, City of
            119802     Eagle River W&SD
            219234     Eagle Springs Golf Club
            119233     Eagle, Town of
            135237     Eden Valley Institute
            134200     Edgemont Ranch MD
            207466     Eldora Mountain Resort
            107246     Eldorado Art Spgs
            230290     Elk Creek Elementary Schl
            110010     Empire, Town of




                                                                   654
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            335251     Endovalley Picnic Area
            103045     Englewood, City of
            162255     Erie, Town of
            235257     Estes Park CG
            135257     Estes Park, Town Of
            130030     Evergreen MD
            335266     Fall River Pass
            122500     Florence, City of
            121250     Forest View Acres WD
            121300     Fountain Valley Authority
            154285     Fox Estates HOA
            159055     Frisco, Town of
            115288     Fruitland Domestic WC
            135291     Ft Collins, City of
            162291     Ft. Lupton, City of
            144005     Ft.Morgan, City of
            130035     Genesee W&SD
            110015     Georgetown, Town of
            123314     Glenwood Springs, City of
            130040     Golden, City of
            125323     Grand County W&SD #1
            139321     Grand Junction, City of
            225324     Grand Lake Lodge
            125322     Grand Lake, Town of
            162321     Greeley, City of
            126220     Gunnison County -Dos Rios
            119329     Gypsum, Town of
            CO015906   HAMILTON CREEK MD
            3
            154333     Hayden, Town of
            335343     Hidden Valley Ski Area
            222700     Holnam Inc./ Ideal Cement
            125352     Hot Sulphur Springs, Town
            115352     Hotchkiss, Town of
            162359     Hudson, Town of
            110020     Idaho Springs, City of
            130055     Idledale W&SD
            130065     Indian Hills WD
            107401     Jamestown, Town of
            162418     Johnstown, Town of
            139434     Kannah Creek WS




                                                                   655
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            259002     Keystone - Arapahoe Basin
            259009     Keystone - Summit Lodge
            125455     Kremmling, Town of
            128500     La Veta, Town of
            107473     Lafayette, City of
            119467     Lake Creek Meadows MD
            134530     Lake Durango WD
            207465     Lane Guest Ranch
            107471     Lefthand WD/Niwot
            107485     Longmont, City of
            335485     Longs Peak CG
            CO010748   LONGS PEAK WD
            6
            110026     Lookout Mountain WD
            107487     Louisville, City of
            210015     Loveland Basin Ski Area
            210016     Loveland Valley Ski Area
            135485     Loveland, City of
            107496     Lyons, Town of
            142600     Mancos Rural WC
            142700     Mancos, Town of
            121450     Manitou Springs, City of
            207504     Meadow Mtn WS
            207506     Meeker Park Lodge
            142750     Mesa Verde - Jackson Lake
            139505     Mesa W&SD
            210017     Mill Creek Park WIA
            119510     Minturn, Town of
            142900     Montezuma WC
            236300     Monument Lake Resort
            247010     Moore-Dale Ranch
            130085     Morrison, Town of
            214200     Mountain Cliffe Ski Area
            CO022683   MOUNTAIN COAL CO LLC -
            8          W
            233640     Mt Elbert Lodge
            233650     Mt Elbert Power Plant
            154524     Mt Werner W&SD
            126190     Mt. Crested Butte WS&D
            226838     Mtn.Coal Co-West Elk Mine




                                                                   656
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            CO014352   MUSTANG WATER
            5          AUTHORITY
            143533     Naturita, Town of
            225322     NCWCD-Farr Pump Plant
            107538     Nederland, Town of
            123538     New Castle, Town of
            135538     Newell-Warnock WA
            123552     No Name Creek WS
            130105     North Table Mtn W&S
            101115     Northglenn, City of
            157500     Norwood Water Commission
            143559     Nucla, Town of
            154566     Oak Creek, Town of
            104300     Pagosa Area W&SD/Hatc/Stv
            104500     Pagosa Area W&SD/Snowball
            139600     Palisade, Town of
            121575     Palmer Lake, Town of
            123602     Parachute, Town of
            122600     Park Center WD
            133700     Parkville WD (LEADVILLE)
            207605     Peaceful Valley Lodge
            159015     Peak 7/Slope/Breckenridge
            CO025902   PEAK 8 RESTAURANT
            7          (VISTA
            122700     Penrose WD
            221720     Pikes Peak - Summit House
            CO010761   PINE BROOK HILLS WD
            0
            249610     Pine Creek Cookhouse -Ash
            151450     Pine Drive WD
            135610     Pinewood Springs WD
            239618     Powderhorn MD #1
            143621     Project 7 Water Authority
            135621     Prospect Mtn
            254185     PSCO OF CO.- Hayden Sttn
            251700     Public Service-Comanche
            151650     Pueblo West MD
            151500     Pueblo, Board of Water Wo
            160375     Rainbow Valley WD
            152666     Rangely, Town of
            235668     Rawhide Energy Station




                                                                   657
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            119671     Red Cliff, Town of
            121700     Red Rock Valley WD
            CO011967   RED SKY RANCH
            3
            149671     Redstone W&SD
            117700     Rico, Town of
            146676     Ridgway, Town of
            123676     Rifle, City of
            235676     Riverview CG
            121725     Rock Creek Mesa WD
            230055     Rocky Flats Plant
            145600     Rocky Ford, City of
            235686     Rocky Ridge Music Center
            CO011805   ROXBOROUGH PARK MD
            5
            151700     Rye, Town of
            108700     Salida, City of
            CO025190   SAN ISABEL BOY SCOUT
            0          RAN
            107701     San Lazaro MHP
            147090     Shawnee WCA
            123710     Silt, Town of
            110035     Silver Plume, Town of
            156600     Silverton, Town of
            210020     Singing River
            149717     Snowmass Village W&SD
            135718     Soldier Canyon FP
            135721     Spring Canyon W&SD
            235722     Spruce Lake RV Park
            151750     St.Charles Mesa WD
            254718     Stagecoach State Park
            254720     Steamboat Lake State Park
            235726     Sundance Trail Guest Ranc
            135725     Sunrise Ranch
            121825     Sunview MHP
            107725     Superior Metro Dist #1
            134840     Tamarron Sheraton Resort
            157800     Telluride, Town of
            101150     Thornton, City of
            154743     Timbers W&SD
            CO013571   TRI DISTRICT
            8



                                                                   658
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

            PWSID      SYS_NAME                    April-
                                                   09
            136800     Trinidad, City of
            243185     Tri-State G&T-Nucla Stati
            119786     Upper Eagle Regional WA
            CO011578   UPPER SURFACE CREEK
            4          DOME
            CO013479   UTE PASS WATER
            0          ASSOCIATI
            139791     Ute Water Conservancy Dis
            160700     Victor, City of
            129834     Walden, Town of
            128900     Walsenburg, City of
            135838     Wellington, Town of
            252838     Western Fuels Deserado Mi
            110050     Western Inn MHP
            101170     Westminster, City of
            307845     Wild Basin Ranger Station
            CO014918   WILD CAT RANCH
            5
            234600     Williams Field Service
            157950     Wilson Mesa MD
            230067     Windy Peaks Outdoor Lab
            125843     Winter Park W&SD
            240850     Wolf Creek Ski Area
            160900     Woodland Park, City of
            CO012195   WOODMOOR WSD
            0
            254901     Yampa River State Park
            251950     YMCA - Camp Jackson
            135883     YMCA of the Rockies
            208920     Young Life-Frontier Ranch




                                                                   659
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


Appendix VII:   High Priority Habitat Maps




                                                    660
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        661
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        662
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        663
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        664
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        665
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        666
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        667
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        668
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        669
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        670
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS              2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission




                                                        671
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


APPENDIX IX          FORM 41
                                         Form 41

Section A – Classification of Entity Asserting Trade Secret Claim

__ Operator __ Vendor __ Service provider ___ Other - specify in detail:
_____________

Section B – Entity Asserting Trade Secret Claim

The entity below submits this form to claim that it is entitled under COGCC Rule 205A to
withhold certain information from disclosure as a trade secret:

Entity name: _________________________________

Street Address: _________________________________

City/State/Zip Code: ___________________________________

Contact person: ________________________

Contact phone: ___________________ Contact fax: ______________________

Contact email: ______________________________________

Section C – Claim of Entitlement to Trade Secret Protection

Rule 205A requires disclosure of all chemicals intentionally added to base fluid as part
of a hydraulic fracturing treatment, as well as the maximum concentrations and (if
applicable) CAS numbers for those chemicals, except in those limited situations where
the specific identity or concentration of a chemical are permitted to be withheld as a
trade secret. For purposes of Rule 205A, the term “trade secret” is defined in the
COGCC Series 100 Definitions.

The Entity identified in Section B claims that the (____) identity or (___) maximum
concentration, or (__) both, of the following chemical qualifies as a trade secret:

__________________________ (Chemical identifier). You may use a descriptive label,
such as “Company TS1,” for a chemical identifier in lieu of identifying the chemical. This
chemical identifier may be used to reference the chemical in subsequent disclosures
filed with the Chemical Disclosure Registry.

In order to claim that information is entitled to protection as a trade secret, you must
check all the affirmations below and submit specific information regarding each of the
following (can be attached on separate pages).




                                                                                       672
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

__ 1. The entity holding the trade secret information has not disclosed the information
      to any other person, other than a member of a local emergency planning
      committee, an officer or employee of the United States or a state or local
      government, an employee of such person, or a person who is bound by a
      confidentiality agreement, and such person has taken reasonable measures to
      protect the confidentiality of such information and intends to continue to take
      such measures, or disclosure has otherwise been limited such that the
      information is not readily available to competitors.

__ 2. The information is not required to be disclosed, or otherwise made available, to
      the public under any other Federal or State law.

__ 3. Disclosure of the information is likely to cause harm to the competitive position of
      the entity holding the trade secret information.

__ 4. The information is not readily discoverable through reverse engineering.

CERTIFICATION

This form must be signed by an authorized agent of the entity identified in Section B.

I declare under penalty of perjury that this report has been examined by me and to the
best of my knowledge is true, correct and complete.

                           ____________________________________
                           Signature

                           ____________________________________
                           Name and title




                                                                                         673
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission


Editor’s Notes

History
Rule 310 eff. 09/30/2007.
Rule 310B deleted eff. 09/30/2007.
Rules 328, 329 eff. 05/30/2008.
Entire rule eff. 04/01/2009.
Rule 201A emer. rule eff. 04/14/2009.
Rules 306(c), 604(a) eff. 05/01/2009.
Appendices VI, VII eff. 06/01/2009.
Rules 201A, 503(b)(7) eff. 07/01/2009.
Rules 303(j), 328(g), 329(e) eff. 02/01/2010.
Rule 904.a eff. 05/30/2011.
Rules 318A(I), 318A(II) eff. 09/30/2011.
Rule 100, 205, 205.A, 305.e.(1)A, 316C, 523.c, Appendix IX eff. 01/30/2012.
Rules 100, 318A eff. 01/14/2013.
Rules 100, 318A.e.(4), 609 eff. 05/01/2013.
Rules 100, 303, 305-306, 602-605, 802-805 eff. 08/01/2013.
Rule 100, Appendices VII, VIII eff. 11/14/2013.
Rules 337, 906 eff. 02/01/2014.
Entire rule eff. 09/30/2014.
Rules 100, 205.c, 303.a(5), 303.b(3), 308.A, 309, 311, 316A.a, 316B, 317, 318A.f,
       319.a(1), 321, 325.c(7), 325.d(6), 326, 330.b, 506, 507.a(1), 521, 603.e,
       604.c(2)G, 605.a, 710, 901.e, 904.a, 904.b, 907.c(2)D, 907.e(2), 909.c(3),
       910.b(3)E eff. 01/30/2015. Rule 318A.n repealed eff. 01/30/2015.
Rules 522-523 eff. 03/02/2015.
Rules 100, 603.g-h eff. 04/30/2015.
Rules 100, 503.a, 503.b(4), 521.d, 522.b, 522.e, 528.c eff. 09/14/2015.
Rules 100, 302.c, 303.b.(3)K, 303.c, 305.A, 305.a, 305.d, 306.d.(1), 604.b.(1), 604.c.(4)
       eff. 03/16/2016.
Rule 310 eff. 04/01/2018.
Rules 100, 303.b.(2), 312.i, 313A, 313B, 317B.a, 328.d, 602, 605, 711, 907.f, 1101-
       1105 eff. 05/01/2018.
Rules 100, 501-530 eff. 12/30/2018.
Rules 100, 303.b.(3)U, 305.a, 306.h, 503.b.(5), 503.b.(9)-(10), 604.a.(3), 604.a.(6) eff.
       02/14/2019.
Rules 100, 207.b.(1), 303.h, 304, 317.a.(1), 318A.e.(5)C, 325.b, 501-533 eff.
       09/30/2019.




                                                                                     674
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     2 CCR 404-1
Energy and Carbon Management Commission

Rules 100, 215, 316C.o-p, 326.b.(4), 326.c.(4), 333.c.(3), 610, 711-713, 906.a-b, 1101-
      1105 eff. 01/14/2020.
Rule 310 eff. 09/30/2020.
Rules 100, 201, 207, 209, 301, 303.a.(5), 308A, 308B, 311, 314, 316C, 317, 319, 321,
      341, 603, 608 eff. 11/02/2020.
Rules 100-900, 1200, Appendix VII eff. 01/15/2021.
Rules 100, 205, 211, 217, 218, 223.b, 304.b.(2)B.ix, 306.a.(5), 413, 434.b-d, 436.g,
      503.g-h, 504,-505, 700 Series, 810.a, 907.d,h, 912.b.(6), 913.e eff. 04/30/2022.
Rule 100, Appendix VII eff. 05/30/2022.
Rules 100, 205.c eff. 07/30/2022.
Appendix VII eff. 11/30/2023.
Appendix VII eff. 07/15/2024.
Rules 100 Series, 1300 Series eff. 09/30/2024.
Rules 100 Series, 224, 301-304, 306-309, 312, 314-316, 604, 803.b.(2)A, 904.a,
      1201.b.(1) eff. 12/15/2024.
Rules 100 Series, 304.c.(18), 431, 905.a.(4), 905.c.(6), 907.b.(5)H, Appendix VII eff.
      04/30/2025.
Rules 100 Series, 205 a, 205 c, 523 d(2)A, 525 b, 525 c(3)A.ii,525 d, 527 b, 528 a, 528
      e, 602 b eff. 10/30/2025.
Rule 100 Series, 201(d), 502(d), 503(a), 503(g), 504(b), 616, 1400 Series eff.
      11/1/2025.
Appendix VII eff. 05/30/2026.



Annotations

Rules 306.c.(1)(A) introductory portion; 306.c.(1)(A)(i); 306.c.(1)(A)(ii); 306.c.(1)(A)(iii);
604.a.(1); and 604.a.(10) (adopted 12/11/2008) were due to be repealed by House Bill
09-1292 effective 05/15/2009. Prior to this date all of the above rule sections were
amended by the agency effective 05/01/2009.

Rule 525.b. (adopted 07/28/2014) was not extended by Senate Bill 15-100 and
therefore expired 05/15/2015.




                                                                                            675
