                   GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                    Oil and Gas Industry


                                       Natural Gas Fired


             Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines (RICE)


Permit Number GP02 Issuance 4                                      Final Approval



                                                                 July 23, 2025


 Bradley Eades, PE                                               Date Issued


 Oil & Gas Permit Section Supervisor


Table of Contents

I.     General Permit Applicability .............................................................2

II.    Emission Limitation Requirements ......................................................4
III.   General Operating Conditions ......................................................... 11
IV.    Recordkeeping and Reporting .......................................................... 12

V.     Compliance Test Requirements........................................................ 15



                                              Page 1 of 48
VI.     Engine Operating and Maintenance Plan ............................................. 17

VII.    Engine Alternative Operating Scenarios (AOS) ...................................... 22
VIII.   Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted
        (DI) Communities ........................................................................ 26

IX.     Additional Requirements ............................................................... 27
X.      General Permit Registration Approval Process ...................................... 28

XI.     General Permit Terms and Administration ........................................... 29




I.         General Permit Applicability

I.A.       This General Permit can be used only for natural gas fired reciprocating internal
           combustion engines located at an oil and gas stationary source that meets the
           following requirements:

        I.A.1.      Are a true minor or synthetic minor source for Operating Permits (OP) or
                    New Source Review (NSR) program applicability, except as provided for in
                    I.B, I.C, and I.D, below.

        I.A.2.      Are a true minor or synthetic minor source under the provisions of 40 CFR
                    Part 63, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for
                    Source Categories.

        I.A.3.      Meet all of the conditions of Section II.A. of this General Permit.

I.B.       Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements
           or became classified as an existing major stationary source for which a complete
           GP02 registration request was received by the Division prior to the effective date
           (January 27, 2020) on which 8-hour Ozone Control Area was re-classified from
           moderate to serious may continue to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour



                                                Page 2 of 48
         Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1.
         (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.C.     Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
         requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source due to
         the reclassification of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to severe, and
         b) for which a complete GP02 registration request was received by the Division
         prior to the effective date of GP02, Issuance 3 (November 3, 2022) may continue
         to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in
         Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
         02/14/2024).

I.D.     Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
         requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for which
         a GP02 registration request was deemed complete by the Division prior to the
         effective date (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County was re-classified
         from moderate to serious may continue to operate under this General Permit.
         Northern Weld County is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.3.
         (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.E.     The following types of sources may not use this general permit for natural gas
         fired reciprocating internal combustion engines:

       I.E.1.   A portable source.

       I.E.2.   A petroleum refinery.

       I.E.3.   Newly constructed or modified existing equipment that is part of a project
                permit action that is subject to Non-Attainment New Source Review (NA
                NSR) or Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permitting under
                Regulation Number 3, Part D


                                        Page 3 of 48
        I.E.4.    For engines newly registered or modified after Issuance 4 of this general
                  permit, sources complying with Regulation Number 26, Part B, I.D.5.c
                  Alternative Company-Wide Compliance Plan.

        I.E.5.    For engines newly registered or modified after Issuance 4 of this general
                  permit, sources complying with Regulation Number 26, Part B, I.D.6.b.(v)
                  alternative emission standard.

I.F.      This general permit applies only to the oil and gas stationary source and the
          equipment as described in Section I above for which the operator has obtained
          approval from the Division for registration under this general permit. Other
          equipment at the same stationary source must be permitted separately as required
          by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

II.       Emission Limitation Requirements

II.A.     Facility-Wide Emission Limitation Requirements

        II.A.1.   The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from all Air
                  Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN)-reportable emissions points at the same
                  stationary source (including those of the engine subject to this permit)
                  shall be Federally Enforceable and must not exceed the following
                  limitations. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4). For
                  facilities located outside the 8-hour Ozone Control Area (8-hour Ozone
                  Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1.
                  (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024)), facility-wide maximum
                  allowable emissions must not exceed:

                      II.A.1.a.     Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                90.0 tons per year

                      II.A.1.b.     Carbon Monoxide (CO):                 90.0 tons per year



                                          Page 4 of 48
              II.A.1.c.      Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):      90.0 tons per year


          For sources that are also subject to Condition II.A.6. or II.A.7, the
          owner or operator must comply with the most stringent limits for
          each pollutant.


II.A.2.   The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from all APEN-
          reportable emissions points at the same stationary source (including those
          of the engine subject to this permit) shall be Federally Enforceable and
          must not exceed the following limitations. (Reference: Regulation Number
          3, Part B, Section II.A.4). For facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone Control
          Area (8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part
          A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024)), for which
          a complete GP02 registration request is received by the Division prior to
          the effective date (January 27, 2020) on which that area was re-classified
          from moderate to serious and are permitted under the provisions of I.B.
          above, facility-wide maximum allowable emissions must not exceed:

              II.A.2.a.      Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                 90.0 tons per year

              II.A.2.b.      Carbon Monoxide (CO):                  90.0 tons per year

              II.A.2.c.      Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): 90.0 tons per year

          For sources that are also subject to Condition II.A.6. or II.A.7., the owner or
          operator must comply with the most stringent limits for each pollutant.

II.A.3.   The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from all APEN-
          reportable emissions points at the same stationary source (including those
          of the engine subject to this permit) shall be Federally Enforceable and
          must not exceed the following limitations. (Reference: Regulation Number


                                   Page 5 of 48
          3, Part B, Section II.A.4). For facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone Control
          Area (8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part
          A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024)), for which
          a complete GP02 registration request is not received by the Division prior
          to the effective date (January 27, 2020) on which that area was re-
          classified from moderate to serious, facility-wide maximum allowable
          emissions must not exceed:

              II.A.3.a.      Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                 45.0 tons per year

              II.A.3.b.      Carbon Monoxide (CO):                  90.0 tons per year

              II.A.3.c.      Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): 45.0 tons per year

          For sources that are also subject to Condition II.A.6. or II.A.7., the owner or
          operator must comply with the most stringent limits for each pollutant.

II.A.4.   The maximum allowable NOx emissions increase for the project which
          includes the engine covered by this general permit must be less than 40
          tons per year.

II.A.5.   The maximum allowable controlled emissions of hazardous air pollutants
          (HAPs) from all APEN reportable emissions points at the stationary source
          are Federally Enforceable and must not exceed the following limitations:
          (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

               Each Individual HAP:                   8.0 tons per year

               Total of all HAPs:                     20.0 tons per year

II.A.6.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as serious
          nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to



                                    Page 6 of 48
          Conditions I.B. or I.C. or I.D. of this permit, must track potential emissions
          from all insignificant activities at the facility on an annual basis to
          demonstrate compliance with facility emission limitations as indicated
          below. An inventory of each insignificant activity and associated emission
          calculations must be made available to the Division for inspection upon
          request. For the purposes of this condition, insignificant activities are
          defined as any activity or equipment, which emits any amount of VOC or
          NOx but does not require an APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for
          reclassifications of an existing nonattainment area to serious, the limit
          applies upon the effective date of reclassification. (Regulation Number 3,
          Part B. Section III.E.)


          Total point source potential emissions from the facility, including all
          permitted emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
          activities, must be less than:


          Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):            50 tons per year


          Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                       50 tons per year


II.A.7.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as severe
          nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to Conditions
          I.B. or I.C. or I.D. of this permit, must track potential emissions from all
          insignificant activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate
          compliance with facility emission limitations as indicated below. An
          inventory of each insignificant activity and associated emission calculations
          must be made available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the
          purposes of this condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity



                                    Page 7 of 48
                  or equipment, which emits any amount of VOC or NOx but does not require
                  an APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing
                  nonattainment area to severe, the limit applies upon the effective date of
                  reclassification. (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)


                  Total point source potential emissions from the facility, including all
                  permitted emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
                  activities, must be less than:


                  Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): 25 tons per year


                  Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                  25 tons per year


II.B.     Emission Limitations Specific to Engines Registered Under this General Permit

        II.B.1.   All representations made in the general permit registration including, but
                  not limited to, emission factors, nameplate and site-rated horsepower,
                  hours of operation, emissions control measures, requested fuel
                  consumption and other parameters that affect emissions are conditions
                  upon which the registered engine must be constructed and operated. As
                  such, the maximum allowable emissions from each engine registered under
                  this general permit must not exceed the requested Federally-enforceable
                  annual emission limitations (tons per year) as listed on the general permit
                  registration approval letter, or if an approval letter has not been issued, as
                  certified by the owner or operator in the APEN included with the general
                  permit registration.

        II.B.2.   The owner or operator of any natural gas-fired stationary reciprocating
                  internal combustion engine with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than



                                           Page 8 of 48
          500 horsepower operating in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area must comply
          with emission control requirements in Regulation Number 26, Part B,
          Section I.A., as applicable per the most current version of Regulation
          Number 26. (Reference: Regulation Number 26, Part B, Sections I.A.1. and
          I.A.2.)

II.B.3.   Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this
          general permit shall be subject to and shall not exceed the emissions
          standards contained in Table 1. If the engine is subject to a more stringent
          applicable performance standard for a specific pollutant, the most
          stringent performance standard shall apply (Reference: Regulation Number
          3, Part B, Section III.E).

           Table 1: Emission Standards (g/hp-hr) for Rich Burn and Lean Burn
           Engines

           Engine Design (horsepower (hp))            NOx        CO            VOC

          Rich Burn (Greater than or equal to 100     2.0        4.0           1.0
          and less than 500)

          Lean Burn (Greater than or equal to 100     2.0        4.0           1.0
          and less than 500)

          Rich Burn (Greater than or equal to 500)    0.7        1.5           1.0

          Lean Burn (Greater than or equal to 500)    2.0        1.5           0.7



II.B.4.   Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this
          general permit with emissions from natural gas fired RICE that are greater
          than or equal to 100 hp and constructed in or relocated to the state of


                                       Page 9 of 48
          Colorado from another state on or after the applicable date, shall not
          exceed the emission standards in Table 2 as expressed in units of grams per
          horsepower-hour (g/hp-hr). If the engine is subject to a more stringent
          applicable performance standard for a specific pollutant, the most
          stringent performance standard shall apply (Reference: Regulation Number
          3, Part B, Section III.E.).

          Table 2: Emission Standards (g/hp-hr) for Rich Burn and Lean Burn
          Engines

          Maximum Engine         Construction or   NOx          CO           VOC
          HP                     Relocation
                                 Date

          Greater than or        January 1, 2011   1.0          2.0          0.7
          equal to 100 and
          less than 500

          Greater than or        July 1, 2010      1.0          2.0          0.7
          equal to 500

II.B.5.   Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this
          general permit must comply with the requirements in Regulation Number
          26, Part B, Section I.D.3 and Section I.D.4, as applicable per the most
          current version of Regulation Number 26.

II.B.6.   Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this
          general permit with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to
          1,000 horsepower must comply with the requirements in Regulation
          Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5., as applicable per the most current
          version of Regulation Number 26.


                                   Page 10 of 48
         II.B.7.   Rich burn engines with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal
                   to 100 horsepower but less than 1000 horsepower and lean burn engines
                   with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to 250 horsepower
                   but less than 1000 horsepower must comply with the requirements in
                   Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6., as applicable per the most
                   current version of Regulation Number 26.

II.C.      Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this general
           permit must comply with the requirements for major sources of NOx in Regulation
           Number 26, Part B, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of
           Regulation Number 26.

II.D.      Air pollution control equipment may be used to comply with the emission limits
           and performance standards required in this general permit.

III.       General Operating Conditions

III.A.     The owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements in Regulation
           Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of Regulation
           Number 1.

III.B.     This stationary source is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number 2.

III.C.     The AIRS number (e.g. 123/1234/001) and permit number (GP02) must be marked
           on the subject equipment for ease of identification. (Reference: Regulation
           Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)

III.D.     The owner or operator must follow the Recordkeeping and Reporting/ Operating
           and Maintenance plans specified in Sections IV and VI. (Reference: Regulation
           Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.6.)




                                           Page 11 of 48
IV.       Recordkeeping and Reporting

IV.A.     Records must be located on-site or at a local field office with stationary source
          responsibility. Records may be kept in either electronic or hard copy format
          provided that they can be promptly supplied to the Division upon request.

IV.B.     The following records must be maintained for the emission unit while covered by
          this general permit:

        IV.B.1.   The current issuance of this general permit.

        IV.B.2.   The APEN submitted to the Division for each engine covered by this general
                  permit

        IV.B.3.   The general permit registration approval letter.

        IV.B.4.   The Notice of Startup (NOS) submitted to the Division as required under
                  Section IX.D.

IV.C.     The following records must be maintained for a period of five years:

        IV.C.1.   Records that demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of this
                  permit.

                  IV.C.1.a.   Compliance Time Period

                       IV.C.1.a.(i) If the stationary source at which the engine(s) is located
                                    is a true minor source, compliance with the annual
                                    emission limits for the engine(s) must be monitored by
                                    calculating and recording the annual emissions from each
                                    engine on a calendar year basis.




                                         Page 12 of 48
                            IV.C.1.a.(ii) If the stationary source at which the engine(s) is located
                                             is a synthetic minor or major source, compliance with the
                                             annual emission limits for the engine(s) must be
                                             monitored by calculating emissions on a monthly basis
                                             and recording the annual emissions from each engine on a
                                             rolling twelve (12) month total. By the end of each
                                             month a new twelve-month total is calculated based on
                                             the previous twelve months’ emissions data. During the
                                             first year of operation, compliance must be based upon
                                             cumulative emissions from all months of operation.

                      IV.C.1.b.      Emissions from engines covered by this general permit must be
                                     calculated using the methodologies listed in this Section IV.C.1.b.
                                     The same emission factors, site rated horsepower, brake-specific
                                     fuel consumption (BSFC), and lower fuel heat value (LHV) as
                                     specified in the most recent registration approved by the Division
                                     must be used in the calculations. Equations Eq. 1, Eq. 2, Eq. 3
                                     and Eq. 4 represent annual calculations and should be adjusted
                                     using the appropriate time period (monthly or annual) as
                                     required by Section IV.C.1.a.

                            IV.C.1.b.(i) Emission estimates based upon hours of operation must be
                                            calculated using either Eq. 1 or Eq. 2:


                  tons        g                   hrs                  lbs   ton 
Eq. 1   Emissions       = EF           * Runtime   * Site Rated HP *         *      
                  yr          hp − hr             yr                   454 g   2000 lb 

                  tons        lb                hrs                      Btu   ton   MMBtu 
Eq. 2   Emissions       = EF         * Runtime   * Site Rated HP * BSFC           *        *  6 
                  yr          MMBtu             yr                       hp − hr   2000 lb   10 Btu 




                                                     Page 13 of 48
                             IV.C.1.b.(ii) Emission estimates based upon fuel consumption must be
                                             calculated using either Eq. 3 or Eq. 4:


                   tons        g                    scf  1  hp − hr                     Btu   lb   ton 
Eq. 3 Emissions          = EF           * Fuel Use   *               * Fuel Heat Value   *         *          
                   yr          hp − hr              yr   BSFC  Btu                       
                                                                                                 scf    454 g       2000 lb  


                  tons        lb                 scf                 Btu   MMBtu   ton 
Eq. 4   Emissions       = EF         * Fuel Use   * Fuel Heat Value   *             *          
                  yr          MMBtu              yr                  scf   106 Btu   2000 lbs 

        IV.C.2.       Records of the hours of operation and fuel consumption for each engine
                      covered by this permit must be recorded and made available to the
                      Division upon request. Records must be for the same time period (monthly
                      or annual) as determined by Section IV.C.1.a. for the emission calculations.
                      Fuel consumption may be individually metered, allocated from a master
                      meter, or estimated using Eq. 5 based upon the site-rated horsepower,
                      brake-specific fuel consumption (BSFC), and the fuels lower fuel heat value
                      (LHV) as specified in the most recent registration approved by the Division.

                           scf          Btu                                 hr        1          scf 
Eq. 5   Fuel Consumption        = BSFC           * Site Rated HP * Runtime   *                   
                           yr           hp − hr                             yr  Fuel Heat Value  Btu 

        IV.C.3.       An alternative operating scenario (AOS) modification log containing all
                      details required by any AOS in this permit. (Reference: Regulation Number
                      3, Part A, Section IV.A.1.)

        IV.C.4.       Records that demonstrate compliance with the facility-wide emission limit
                      requirements that facilities must meet in order to qualify for use of this
                      General Permit as set forth in Section II.A. of this permit.




                                                       Page 14 of 48
        IV.C.5.   Results of initial compliance and periodic performance testing required by
                  Sections V and VI.

        IV.C.6.   Operating and maintenance records required by Section VI.

IV.D.     On or before June 30th of each calendar year, the owner or operator of oil and
          natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural gas processing
          plant or class II disposal well facilities in Colorado 02 must submit a single annual
          report that includes actual emissions and specified information in the Division-
          approved report format. The information included in the annual report must be in
          accordance with the general reporting requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part
          B, Section V.B. Each calendar year, owners or operators must maintain the
          information according to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.C. for inclusion in
          the annual report. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V).

IV.E.     Engines registered under GP02 and subject to the requirements of Regulation
          Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5 must comply with the recordkeeping and
          reporting requirements listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Sections I.D.5.f.
          and I.D.5.g.

IV.F.     Engines registered under GP02 and subject to the requirements of Regulation
          Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6 must comply with the recordkeeping and
          reporting requirements listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Sections I.D.6.e.
          and I.D.6.f.

V.        Compliance Test Requirements

V.A.      If the stationary source is synthetic minor or major for NOx or CO an initial
          compliance test for outlet concentrations of NOx and CO is required. If the
          stationary source is synthetic minor for formaldehyde, an initial compliance test
          for outlet concentrations of NOx, CO and formaldehyde is required. Initial


                                          Page 15 of 48
         compliance test requirements only apply to engines equipped with a catalytic
         emission control device that are nameplate-rated greater than or equal to 500 hp.

V.B.     Engines registered under GP02 and subject to the requirements of Regulation
         Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5. must comply with the performance testing
         requirements listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5.d.

V.C.     Engines registered under GP02 and subject to the requirements of Regulation
         Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6. must comply with the performance testing
         requirements listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6.c.

V.D.     The Division reserves the right to require a compliance test on any engine
         registered under this general permit. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B,
         Section III.E)

V.E.     Results from all compliance tests must be reported in units of parts per million dry
         volume (ppmv), grams per horsepower hour (g/hp-hr) and pounds per million Btu
         (lb/MMBtu). In order to demonstrate compliance with the registered engine’s
         individual annual emissions limits established in Section II.B.1, results of the test
         must be converted to a pound per hour (lb/hr) basis and multiplied by the
         allowable operating hours in a year.

V.F.     All initial compliance tests required by this section must meet the following
         conditions:

       V.F.1.    For new engines, the initial compliance test must be completed within 180
                 days of commencement of operation of the subject engine.

       V.F.2.    For existing engines, the initial compliance test must be completed within
                 180 days of registering the subject engine(s), unless required earlier by
                 condition V.B or V.C. A compliance test performed within the previous five



                                         Page 16 of 48
                  years prior to registration that was used to fulfill a previous Colorado
                  permitting requirement may be used to comply with the initial compliance
                  test requirement providing all other conditions are met.

        V.F.3.    The test protocol must be in prepared in accordance with the requirements
                  of the Division Compliance Test Manual and must be submitted to the
                  Division for review and approval at least thirty (30) days prior to testing. If
                  after thirty (30) calendar days, the owner or operator has not received
                  approval and the Division did not request additional information from the
                  owner or operator, the protocol will be considered automatically approved
                  after the 30-day period.

        V.F.4.    The Division must be notified at least 30 days prior to the test date. The
                  owner or operator may request a waiver of this 30-day notification
                  requirement subject to approval of the Division.

        V.F.5.    Results of all initial compliance tests completed to fulfill the requirements
                  of this Section V must be submitted to the Division for review within thirty
                  (30) days of completion of the test.

VI.       Engine Operating and Maintenance Plan

VI.A.     This Section VI applies only to engines covered by this general permit that are
          located at a stationary source that is synthetic minor or major for NOx, CO, or
          formaldehyde except as indicated in Conditions VI.E.1, VI.E.2, and VI.E.6.

VI.B.     These general requirements apply to all subparts of Section VI.

        VI.B.1.   Each engine and associated catalytic control device, if applicable, must be
                  maintained and operated according to the manufacturer’s scheduled
                  maintenance guide or equivalent. A company may establish its own



                                          Page 17 of 48
                  equivalent maintenance schedule providing it achieves efficient engine
                  operation and meets or exceeds the performance standards of this permit.

        VI.B.2.   A copy of maintenance schedules must be kept.

        VI.B.3.   Records indicating the date and description of maintenance must be kept.

        VI.B.4.   If maintenance activities or actions are dependent upon hours of
                  operation, then engine operating hours must be tracked and recorded. If a
                  method other than hours of operation is used, then the tracking method
                  must be recorded.

VI.C.     For each rich burn engine controlled with a NSCR converter the following
          conditions must be met:

        VI.C.1.   The engine must be equipped with an air-fuel ratio controller (AFRC).

        VI.C.2.   Each AFRC must be maintained per the manufacturer’s recommended
                  maintenance or equivalent, including replacement of the oxygen sensor as
                  necessary for oxygen sensor-based controllers. In the absence of specific
                  manufacturer’s recommendations or equivalent, the oxygen sensor must be
                  replaced quarterly (or within a 2190 hour operating period if the engine
                  does not run continuously).

VI.D.     For each lean burn engine equipped with a NOx sensor the operator must follow
          the manufacturer’s recommended maintenance schedule or equivalent.

VI.E.     For each engine equipped with a catalytic emission control device, the following
          conditions must be met:




                                         Page 18 of 48
VI.E.1.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
          Section I.D.5. must comply with the monitoring requirements listed in
          Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5.e.)

VI.E.2.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
          Section I.D.6. must comply with the monitoring requirements listed in
          Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6.d.

VI.E.3.   The catalyst must be cleaned, reconditioned and replaced per the
          manufacturer’s recommended maintenance or equivalent.

VI.E.4.   The catalyst inlet temperature must be recorded weekly, unless a more
          stringent requirement is required in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section
          I.D.5.e.(ii). If the temperature is outside of the range specified in Section
          VI.E.4.a or VI.E.4.b, corrective action must be taken and documented.

                  VI.E.4.a.     For a rich burn engine with a non-selective catalytic
                                reduction (NSCR) emission control device, the
                                temperature into the catalyst must be between 750°F
                                and 1250°F.

                  VI.E.4.b.     For a lean burn engine with an oxidation catalyst
                                emission control device, the temperature into the
                                catalyst must be between 450°F and 1350°F.

VI.E.5.   The pressure drop across the catalyst bed must be recorded monthly. The
          monthly pressure drop values must not deviate by more than +/- 2 inches
          of water column of the most recent baseline value established according to
          Section VI.E.5.b.




                                  Page 19 of 48
VI.E.5.a.     If the pressure drop value is out of range, the owner or
              operator must perform any one or more of the
              following:

              VI.E.5.a.(i)     Corrective action must be taken and
                               documented, or

              VI.E.5.a.(ii) The owner or operator may artificially
                               load the engine to within +/- 10 percent
                               of the most recent baseline load value
                               established. If the pressure drop is then
                               within range, the pressure drop and load
                               values must be documented and no
                               further corrective action is required, or

              VI.E.5.a.(iii) The owner or operator may forego
                               maintenance activities and perform a
                               portable analyzer test to establish a
                               new pressure drop baseline.

VI.E.5.b.     The baseline pressure drop must be established by
              recording the engine load and pressure drop across the
              catalyst during engine testing. The baseline pressure
              drop must be periodically reestablished as follows.

     VI.E.5.b.(i)   During each initial compliance test required by
                    Section V. If historical initial compliance test
                    data is used to fulfill Section V and baseline
                    pressure drop was not recorded during the
                    compliance test, the operator may defer



               Page 20 of 48
                                     establishing the baseline pressure drop until the
                                     first periodic performance test required by
                                     Section VI.E.5.

                       VI.E.5.b.(ii) During each periodic performance test required
                                     by Section VI.E.5.

                       VI.E.5.b.(iii) Within the first thirty (30) days of engine
                                     operation from the date that the catalyst is
                                     cleaned, reconditioned, or replaced.

VI.E.6.   For each engine equipped with a catalytic emission control device, periodic
          performance tests for NOx and CO using a portable analyzer are required to
          indicate continued performance of the catalyst and proper operation of the
          engine as follows:

                  VI.E.6.a.    Semi-annually at synthetic minor facilities (or within a
                               4,380 hour operating period if the engine does not run
                               continuously); and

                  VI.E.6.b.    Effective June 1, 2020 semi-annually at true minor
                               facilities (or within a 4,380 hour operating period if the
                               engine does not run continuously); and

                  VI.E.6.c.    Effective June 1, 2020 quarterly at major facilities(or
                               within a 2,190 hour operating period if the engine does
                               not run continuously)

                  VI.E.6.d.    For engines that do not operate continuously and which
                               do not exceed 4,380 hours of operation within two (2)




                                 Page 21 of 48
                                         calendar years, a minimum of one performance test
                                         must be completed every two years.

                                 VI.E.6.d.(i)   Each performance test should be performed
                                                with the engine operating at the highest load
                                                practicable. However, it is not required to
                                                artificially load the engine in order to perform
                                                the test.

                                 VI.E.6.d.(ii) All performance tests using a portable analyzer,
                                                including tests triggered by a replacement
                                                engine authorized by an AOS in this permit,
                                                must meet the requirements established in the
                                                Portable Analyzer Monitoring Protocol or other
                                                Division approved protocol.

                                 VI.E.6.d.(iii) At the owner or operator’s discretion, a
                                                performance test using a reference test method
                                                may be used instead of a portable analyzer.

VII.       Engine Alternative Operating Scenarios (AOS)

VII.A.     Provided that the emission limits set forth in Section II are still met, the owner or
           operator may invoke an AOS for the following modifications to an existing engine
           registered under the general permit:

         VII.A.1.   An existing registered engine may be temporarily replaced with a different
                    or like-kind engine in accordance with Attachment A for “Alternative
                    Operating Scenarios Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines ”.




                                           Page 22 of 48
                   VII.A.1.a.   A temporary replacement is defined as in the same
                                service for:

                         VII.A.1.a.(i) 270 operating days or less in any 12-month
                                      period for sources subject to Section VII.D. or

                         VII.A.1.a.(ii) 90 operating days or less in any 12-month
                                      period for sources not subject to Section VII.D..

                                The number of days is the total number of days that
                                the equipment is in operation. If the equipment
                                operates only part of a day, that day counts towards a
                                full day towards the total.

                   VII.A.1.b.   A like-kind replacement is defined as replacing a piece
                                of equipment with the same make, model, and design
                                capacity as the original piece of equipment.

                   VII.A.1.c.   Temporary replacements allowed under the AOS in this
                                permit do not require a revised APEN or registration to
                                be submitted.

VII.A.2.   An existing registered engine may be permanently replaced with a like-kind
           engine in accordance with Attachment A for “Alternative Operating
           Scenarios Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines”.

                   VII.A.2.a.   A permanent replacement is defined as in the same
                                service for more than 90 operating days in any 12
                                month period. The 90 days is the total number of days
                                that the equipment is in operation. If the equipment




                                  Page 23 of 48
             operates only part of a day, that day counts towards
             the 90 day total.

VII.A.2.b.   A like-kind replacement is defined as replacing a piece
             of equipment with the same make, model, and design
             capacity as the original piece of equipment.

VII.A.2.c.   The compliance demonstrations and any periodic
             monitoring required by this AOS are in addition to any
             compliance demonstrations or periodic monitoring
             required by this permit.

VII.A.2.d.   An APEN that includes the specific manufacturer,
             model and serial number and horsepower of the
             permanent replacement engine must be filed with the
             Division for the permanent replacement engine within
             14 calendar days of commencing operation of the
             replacement engine. The APEN shall be accompanied
             by the appropriate APEN filing fee, GP registration fee,
             a cover letter explaining that the permittee is
             exercising an alternative operating scenario and is
             installing a permanent replacement engine, and a copy
             of the relevant Applicability Reports for the
             replacement engine.

VII.A.2.e.   Permanent replacement engines must comply with
             portable analyzer testing requirements set forth in
             Attachment A, Section 6.




              Page 24 of 48
                             VII.A.2.f.   A permanent replacement engine must not include
                                          changes to the configuration that might impact a
                                          dispersion analysis, this includes but is not limited to:

                                              •   Stack heights;

                                              •   Stack locations; or

                                              •   Exit velocity

         VII.A.3.    Routine maintenance, repair, or like-kind replacement of control
                     equipment

         VII.A.4.    Addition of a control device where the operator will not claim Federally
                     enforceable credit for the emission reductions achieved.

VII.B.     Modified or replacement equipment are subject to all requirements set forth in
           this permit including, but not limited to, recordkeeping and reporting, and
           operation and maintenance plans.

VII.C.     An AOS otherwise allowed by this general permit may not be used if the
           modification will result in a facility classification change from true minor to
           synthetic minor. In this case, a revised registration request must be submitted for
           review.

VII.D.     An AOS otherwise allowed by this general permit cannot be used for the
           permanent replacement of an entire engine at any source that is currently a major
           stationary source for purposes of Prevention of Significant Deterioration or Non-
           Attainment Area New Source Review (“PSD/NANSR”) unless the existing engine has
           emission limits that are below the significance levels in Regulation Number 3, Part
           D, II.A.42. Nothing in this AOS shall preclude the Division from taking an action,
           based on any permanent engine replacement(s), for circumvention of any state or


                                            Page 25 of 48
          federal PSD/NANSR requirement. Additionally, in the event that any permanent
          engine replacement(s) constitute(s) a circumvention of applicable PSD/NANSR
          requirements, nothing in this AOS shall excuse the permittee from complying with
          PSD/NANSR and applicable permitting requirements.

VII.E.    The owner or operator must maintain a log to contemporaneously record a
          description of all modifications made under the provisions of this AOS.
          Information recorded for temporary engine replacements must include: the start
          and stop date of any engine replacement, the manufacturer, model number, serial
          number, and design rating of both the engine replaced and the replacement
          engine. Records for emission control equipment additions must include the date
          of installation of new emissions control equipment. (Reference: Regulation
          Number 3, Part A, Section IV.A.1.)

VIII.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted
          (DI) Communities


VIII.A.   Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in Disproportionately
          Impacted Communities must submit a notification at the time of registration for a
          general permit or permits issued pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
          III.I. indicating the source will comply with the monitoring requirements outlined
          in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.J., as applicable, by either:


             VIII.A.1. Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to Section III.J.2.
                       of Part B;

             VIII.A.2. Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section III.J.3. of Part
                       B; or




                                         Page 26 of 48
             VIII.A.3. Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant to
                       Section III.J.4. of Part B.


             Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring methodology
             selected on the general permit registration form.


VIII.B.   Owners or operators subject to VIII.A.1 must submit a Division-approved source-
          specific monitoring plan as part of a complete registration request. (Regulation
          Number 3, Part B, III.E.)

IX.       Additional Requirements

IX.A.     Engines subject to requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart JJJJ, Standards of
          Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines, must
          comply with all applicable requirements of that subpart including, but not limited
          to, emissions standards, testing, notification, monitoring, records and reporting.

IX.B.     Engines subject to area source requirements of 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ,
          National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating
          Internal Combustion Engines, must comply with all applicable requirements of that
          subpart including, but not limited to, performance standards, testing, notification,
          monitoring, records and reporting.

IX.C.     The owner or operator must maintain documentation clearly outlining applicable
          requirements of New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) Subpart JJJJ and
          Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Subpart ZZZZ for the engine
          registered under this permit. The documentation must be located on-site or at a
          local field office with stationary source responsibility. Records may be kept in
          either electronic or hard copy format provided that they can be promptly supplied
          to the Division upon request.



                                          Page 27 of 48
X.     General Permit Registration Approval Process

X.A.   Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective
       from the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated in Condition X.B. A
       complete registration request consists of all General Permit application materials
       required by the Division and associated fees. The owner or operator may
       commence construction and operation of the engine as represented in the
       registration once the registration is deemed complete. In the event the engine
       does not qualify for registration under the general permit the owner or operator
       accepts the liability of commencing these activities.

X.B.   The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit registration
       request within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the request and provide
       written notification to the applicant. If the applicant does not receive notification
       of a completeness determination from the Division within sixty (60) days, the
       General Permit registration request will be deemed complete for the purpose of
       Conditions X.A and X.B.

X.C.   The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division receives a
       complete General Permit registration request to provide the applicant with a
       written approval or denial of the registration.

X.D.   The owner or operator must submit a Notice of Startup (NOS) within fifteen (15)
       calendar days after the commencement of operation of the engine registered to
       this general permit. The notice of startup must include the date of startup and
       make, model, and serial number of the registered engine. If all required
       information is available at the time of registration, the notice of startup may be
       submitted with the General Permit registration request. The NOS must be
       submitted using the Division’s online submission tool on the Division’s self-




                                       Page 28 of 48
          certification webpage at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/apens-and-air-permits/air-
          permit-self-certification.

XI.       General Permit Terms and Administration

XI.A.     A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit
          requirements and is operating under Condition I.A.4 or I.A.5 must submit a Title V
          operating permit application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general
          permit into a Title V Operating Permit. The due date for this application is one
          year from the date on which the facility becomes subject to Title V Operating
          Permit requirements.

XI.B.     In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C.5, some or
          all of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be incorporated as
          specific conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit (if applicable).
          Additional monitoring not listed in this general permit may be included in the
          source’s Operating Permit in order to satisfy the periodic monitoring requirements
          of Section V.C.5.b.

XI.C.     General Terms

        XI.C.1.   A revised APEN shall be filed: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                  Section II.C.)

                           XI.C.1.a. Annually by 30 April of the year following a significant
                                       increase in emissions as follows:

                                   XI.C.1.a.(i) A change in criteria pollutant actual emissions
                                                  of five (5) tons per year or more, above the
                                                  level reported on the last APEN submitted to
                                                  the Division; or



                                            Page 29 of 48
                           XI.C.1.a.(ii) For volatile organic compounds and nitrogen
                                        oxides sources in ozone non-attainment areas,
                                        a change in annual actual emissions of one ton
                                        per year or more or five percent, whichever is
                                        greater, above the level reported on the last
                                        APEN submitted to the Division; or

                           XI.C.1.a.(iii)         For any non-criteria reportable
                                        pollutant, if the emissions increase by 50% or
                                        five (5) tons per year, whichever is less,
                                        above the level reported on the last APEN.

                  XI.C.1.b.     Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of
                                any facility, process, or activity; or

                  XI.C.1.c.     As required by the alternative operating scenario
                                allowed by Section III.

                  XI.C.1.d.     No later than 30 days before the existing APEN expires.

XI.C.2.   Certain requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part D shall apply at such
          time that any stationary source or modification becomes a major stationary
          source or major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in any
          enforceable limitation that was established after August 7, 1980 on the
          capacity of the source or modification to otherwise emit a pollutant, such
          as a restriction on hours of operation. (Reference: Regulation Number 3,
          Part D, § V.A.7.b. and VI.B.4.)

XI.C.3.   This stationary source may be able to utilize the Affirmative Defense
          Provision for Excess Emissions During Malfunctions contained in Common
          Provisions Regulation Part II, Subpart E. The owner or operator must notify


                                  Page 30 of 48
          the Division of any malfunction condition which causes a violation of any
          emission limit or limits stated in this permit as soon as possible, but no
          later than noon of the next working day, followed by written notice to the
          Division addressing all of the criteria set forth in Part II.E.1 of the Common
          Provisions Regulation.

XI.C.4.   This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado
          Air Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
          And Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general and
          specific terms and conditions included in this document.

XI.C.5.   Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
          contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be
          necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of Section 25-7-
          114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

XI.C.6.   Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not
          severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the
          permittee will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon such
          occurrence, this permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

XI.C.7.   Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all sources required to file an
          APEN must pay an annual fee to cover the costs of inspections and
          administration.

XI.C.8.   Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
          Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may
          result in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under
          Sections 25-7-115 (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil penalties),
          -122.1 (criminal penalties), C.R.S.



                                   Page 31 of 48
        XI.C.9.   Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy
                  and completeness of information supplied by the applicant and is
                  conditioned upon operation of the source, in accordance with this
                  information and with representations made by the applicant or
                  applicant's agents. It is valid only for the equipment and operations or
                  activity specifically identified on the general permit registration.

        XI.C.10. All terms and conditions of this permit that apply to the equipment
                  covered by this permit must be considered Applicable Requirements for the
                  purposes of any future permit issued for the engine(s). (Reference:
                  Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.9.a)

XI.D.     Registration Revision / Termination

        XI.D.1.   The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit
                  under the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                  III.I.3.c.

        XI.D.2.   A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner or
                  in a new company name by the Division as provided in Regulation Number
                  3, Part B, Section II.B. upon a request for transfer of ownership or company
                  name change and the submittal of a revised APEN and the required fees.

        XI.D.3.   Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or operator
                  may withdraw or cancel a registration under this general permit at any
                  time by notifying the Division in writing and applying for an individual
                  permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

XI.E.     General




                                          Page 32 of 48
XI.E.1.   This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
          Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3.

XI.E.2.   After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3, Part
          B, Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in order to
          add or delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This public notice
          shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of Regulation
          Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

XI.E.3.   If the Division revises this general permit, it will provide written notice to
          affected owner or operator prior to the revision of the general permit. The
          notice will advise the owner or operator that any existing registration to
          use the general permit will be automatically converted to a registration to
          use the revised general permit, and the owner or operator is subject to
          requirements of the revised general permit. Persons not wishing to
          continue coverage under the revised general permit shall have the option
          of applying for an individual permit as required by Regulation Number 3,
          Part B.

XI.E.4.   If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice
          to affected registrants prior to the termination of the general permit. The
          notice will advise registrants that they must apply for an individual permit
          as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

XI.E.5.   The Division may require any source authorized by a general construction
          permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit if circumstances have
          changed since the time of the original general permit application so that
          the source is no longer appropriately controlled and/or permitted under
          the general construction permit. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B,
          § III.I.3.c.(i)(B).



                                  Page 33 of 48
Permit History

Issuance     Date            Description

Issuance 1   1 August 2011   Initial issuance

Issuance 2   January 24,     Revised to address ozone non-attainment area re-
             2020            classification from moderate to serious.

Issuance 3   November 3,     Revised to address the 8-hour Ozone Control Area re-
             2022            classification from serious to severe for existing
                             registrations

Issuance 4   This Issuance   Revised to address:

                                •   Revised to address Northern Weld County Area
                                    re-classification from moderate to serious for
                                    existing registrations.

                                •   Additional changes due to reclassification from
                                    serious to severe non-attainment

                                •   Additional changes due to reclassification from
                                    moderate to serious non-attainment.

                                •   Changes to the structure of Air Quality Control
                                    commission (AQCC) Regulations Number 7 and
                                    Number 26;

                                •   Transfer of requirements from AQCC Regulation
                                    Number 7 to AQCC Regulation Number 26.




                                       Page 34 of 48
Issuance   Date   Description

                     •   New requirements applicable to engines with
                         rating greater than or equal to 1000 hp.

                     •   Updates to Operating and Maintenance
                         requirements.

                     •   Addition of a permanent AOS




                            Page 35 of 48
Attachment A: 2/14/2024

Alternative Operating Scenarios

The following Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS) for the temporary and permanent replacement of
natural gas fired reciprocating internal combustion engines has been reviewed in accordance with
the requirements of Regulation Number 3., Part A, Section IV.A, Operational Flexibility-Alternative
Operating Scenarios, Regulation Number 3, Part B, Construction Permits, and Regulation Number 3,
Part D, Major Stationary Source New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and
it has been found to meet all applicable substantive and procedural requirements. This permit
incorporates and is considered to be a Construction Permit for any engine replacement performed in
accordance with this AOS, and the owner or operator is allowed to perform such engine replacement
without applying for a revision to this permit or obtaining a new Construction Permit.

The following AOS is incorporated into this permit in order to deal with an engine breakdown or
periodic routine maintenance and repair of an existing onsite engine that requires the use of either a
temporary or permanent replacement engine. The compliance demonstrations and any periodic
monitoring required by this AOS are in addition to any compliance demonstrations or periodic
monitoring required by this permit.

1. Prohibitions

   1.1. The AOS cannot be used for the permanent replacement of an entire engine at any source
        that is currently a major stationary source for purposes of Prevention of Significant
        Deterioration or Non-Attainment Area New Source Review ("PSD/NANSR") unless the existing
        engine has emission limits that are below the significance levels in Regulation Number 3, Part
        D, II.A.44. Nothing in this AOS precludes the Division from taking an action, based on any
        permanent engine replacement(s), for circumvention of any state or federal PSD/NANSR
        requirement. Additionally, in the event that any permanent engine replacement(s)
        constitute(s) a circumvention of applicable PSD/NANSR requirements, nothing in this AOS
        excuses the owner or operator from complying with PSD/NANSR and applicable permitting
        requirements.




                                             Page 36 of 48
   1.2. This AOS cannot be used to change the annual permitted emission limits or any compliance
       emission factor or calculation method that is required by a permit to be used for the
       purposes of monitoring compliance with the annual permitted emission limits.

   1.3. This AOS cannot be used for the permanent replacement of an engine subject to an emission
       limitation under Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5 (state-wide requirements for
       natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with manufacturer's design rate
       greater than or equal to 1000 hp), unless the replacement is subject to the same numerical
       emission standard and compliance date as the unit being replaced, on the date that the
       replacement will occur.

   1.4. This AOS cannot be used for the permanent replacement of an engine subject to an emission
       limitation under Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6 (state-wide requirements for
       rich burn and lean burn natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with
       manufacturer's design rate greater than or equal to 100 hp and 250 hp, respectively, and less
       than 1000 hp), unless the replacement is subject to the same numerical emission standard
       and compliance date as the unit being replaced, on the date that the replacement will
       occur.

   1.5. Additional Sources

       The replacement of an existing engine with a new engine is viewed by the Division as the
       installation of a new emissions unit, not “routine replacement” of an existing unit. The AOS
       is therefore essentially an advanced construction permit review. The AOS cannot be used for
       additional new emission points for any site; an engine that is being installed as an entirely
       new emission point and not as part of an AOS-approved replacement of an existing onsite
       engine has to go through the appropriate Construction/Operating permitting process prior to
       installation.

2. General Provisions

   All replacement engines are subject to all federally applicable and state-only requirements set
   forth in this permit for the replaced engine (including monitoring and recordkeeping), unless



                                            Page 37 of 48
otherwise superseded by the applicable requirements identified in the Applicability Report for a
particular permanently replaced engine.

The results of all tests and the associated calculations required by this AOS must be submitted to
the Division within 30 calendar days of the test or within 60 days of the test if such testing is
required to demonstrate compliance with NSPS or MACT requirements. Results of all tests must
be maintained and made available to the Division upon request.

2.1. Contemporaneous Log

    The owner or operator must maintain a log on-site and contemporaneously record the start
    and stop date of any engine replacement, the manufacturer, date of manufacture, model
    number, horsepower, and serial number of the engine(s) that are replaced during the term of
    this permit, and the manufacturer, model number, horsepower, and serial number of the
    replacement engine. In addition to the log, for permanent engine replacements, the owner
    or operator must maintain a copy of all Applicability Reports required under Item 4 below
    and make them available to the Division upon request.

2.2. Definition of Temporary Replacement and Permanent Replacement

    “Temporary” is defined as in the same service for either 90 operating days or 270 operating
    or less in any 12 month period, based on the total number of days that the engine is in
    operation. If the engine operates only part of a day, that day must count as a single day
    towards the total. Except as provided below for natural gas-fired reciprocating internal
    combustion engines subject to an emission limitation under Regulation Number 26, Part B,
    Section I.D.5 or I.D.6., temporary is defined as 90 operating days for engines where
    permanent replacements are allowed or 270 operating days where permanent replacements
    are not allowed.

    “Temporary” for natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines subject to an
    emission limitation under Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5 or I.D.6. is defined as
    270 days operating days.




                                          Page 38 of 48
       “Permanent” is defined as in the same service for more operating days than allowed under
       temporary replacement, as defined for each specific engine.

3. Specific Provisions for Temporary Replacements

   The owner or operator may temporarily replace an existing engine that is subject to the emission
   limits set forth in this permit with an engine that is of the same manufacturer, model, and
   horsepower or a different manufacturer, model, or horsepower as the existing engine without
   modifying the general permit registration, so long as the temporary replacement engine complies
   with all permit limitations and other requirements applicable to the existing engine. The owner
   or operator must also comply with any additional requirements applicable to the temporary
   replacement. Measurement of emissions from the temporary replacement engine must be made
   as set forth in Item 6 below.

4. Specific Provisions for Permanent Replacements

   Except as provided in Item 1 above, the owner or operator may permanently replace an existing
   engine with another engine with the same manufacturer, model, and horsepower without
   modifying the general permit registration so long as the permanent replacement engine complies
   with all permit limitations and requirements applicable to the existing engine, unless otherwise
   superseded by the regulations identified in the Applicability Report, as well as any other
   applicable requirements for the replacement engine. Measurement of emissions from the
   permanent replacement engine and compliance with the applicable emission limitations must be
   made as set forth in Item 6 below.

   An Air Pollutant Emissions Notice (APEN) that includes the specific manufacturer, model and
   serial number and horsepower of the permanent replacement engine must be filed with the
   Division for the permanent replacement engine within 14 calendar days of commencing operation
   of the replacement engine. The annual emission limitations and associated emission factors
   requested on the APEN must exactly match the annual emission limitations and emission factors
   associated with the annual emission limits set forth in the permit for the existing engine. Any
   changes to these values cannot be processed as a permanent replacement under this AOS and will
   instead require a permit modification.


                                            Page 39 of 48
   The APEN must be accompanied by the appropriate APEN filing fee, a cover letter explaining that
   the owner or operator is exercising an alternative operating scenario and is installing a
   permanent replacement engine, and a copy of the relevant Applicability Reports for the
   replacement engine. Applicability Reports can be found at
   https://cdphe.colorado.gov/alternate-operating-scenario-aos-for-engines. This submittal must be
   accompanied by a certification from the person legally authorized to act on behalf of the owner
   or operator indicating that “based on the information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry,
   the statements and information included in the submittal are true, accurate and complete”.

   Annual emission calculations for monitoring compliance with annual permit limits for permanent
   replacement engines must be performed using the emission factors and calculation methods set
   forth in the permit for the existing engine. If the owner or operator elects to modify either the
   annual emission limit or the emission factor in the permit associated with annual limit to more
   closely reflect the replacement engine operation, a permit modification application must be
   submitted to the Division. The use of any emission factors or calculation methods for the
   purposes of monitoring compliance with annual limits is prohibited until a permit application has
   been processed by the Division and a permit revision issued.

   Nothing in this AOS is intended to require the owner or operator to use emission factors
   associated with annual permit limits to monitor compliance with any other emission limits or
   standards, unless the owner or operator is already explicitly required to do so by a specific
   permit condition or applicable requirement.

   The owner or operator must pay fees based on the normal permit processing rate for review of
   information submitted to the Division in regard to any permanent engine replacement.

5. Applicable Regulations for Permanent Engine Replacements

   An analysis of all applicable requirements, including but not limited to monitoring, recordkeeping
   and reporting, for the permanent engine replacement must be included in the Applicability
   Reports required under Item 4. Any testing required by the rules listed in items 5.2 through 5.9
   below is in addition to that required by this AOS.




                                            Page 40 of 48
5.1. Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT): Reg 3, Part B § III.D.2

    All permanent replacement engines that are located in an area that is classified as
    attainment/maintenance or nonattainment must apply Reasonably Available Control
    Technology (RACT) for the pollutants for which the area is attainment/maintenance or
    nonattainment. Note that both VOC and NOx are precursors for ozone. RACT must be applied
    for any level of emissions of the pollutant for which the area is in attainment/maintenance
    or nonattainment, except as follows:

    In the Denver Metropolitan PM10 attainment/maintenance area, RACT applies to PM10 at any
    level of emissions and to NOx and SO2, as precursors to PM10, if the potential to emit of NOx
    or SO2 exceeds 40 tons/yr.

    For purposes of this AOS, the following are considered RACT for natural-gas fired
    reciprocating internal combustion engines:

    VOC: The emission limitations in NSPS JJJJ

    CO:    The emission limitations in NSPS JJJJ

    NOx: The emission limitations in NSPS JJJJ

    SO2:   Use of natural gas as fuel

    PM10: Use of natural gas as fuel

    As defined in 40 CFR Part 60 Subparts GG (§ 60.331) and 40 CFR Part 72 (§ 72.2), natural gas
    contains 20.0 grains or less of total sulfur per 100 standard cubic feet.

5.2. Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.A – Requirements for new and existing engines (in
    the 8-hour Ozone Control Area)

    Natural gas-fired stationary or portable reciprocating internal combustion engines in the 8-
    hour Ozone Control Area with manufacturer’s design rate greater than 500 horsepower shall




                                         Page 41 of 48
    employ a non-selective catalyst reduction system and air fuel controller (for rich burn
    engines), or an oxidation catalyst (for lean burn engines).

    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section I.A          Applicability and compliance dates

    Section I.B          Requirements for Control Devices

    Section I.C          Exemptions

5.3. Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.3 – New, Modified and Relocated Natural Gas Fired
    Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines (State Only)

    A natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines that is either constructed or
    relocated to the state of Colorado from another state after the date listed in the table are is
    subject to the emission standards in the table below (labeled as Table 1 in the Part B).

  Max Engine      Construction or          NOX (g/hp-hr)   CO (g/hp-hr)    VOC (g/hp-hr)
  (HP)            Relocation Date

  100≤hp<500      January 1, 2008          2.0             4.0             1.0

                  January 1, 2011          1.0             2.0             0.7

  500<hp          July 1, 2007             2.0             4.0             1.0

                  July 1, 2010             1.0             2.0             0.7




    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section I.D.1 Exemptions

    Section I.D.2 General Provisions



                                           Page 42 of 48
    Section I.D.3 Emission Standards

5.4. Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.4 – Existing Natural Gas Fired Reciprocating
    Internal Combustion Engines

    Rich Burn Natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with manufacturer’s
    name plate design rate greater than 500 horsepower constructed or modified before
    February 1, 2009 shall install and operate a non-selective catalyst reduction system and air
    fuel controller.

    (State-Only) All lean Burn Natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with
    manufacturer’s name plate design rate greater than 500 horsepower shall install and operate
    an oxidation catalyst.

    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section I.D.1                 Exemptions

    Section I.D.4.a.(i)(B)-(C)    Exemptions

    Section I.D.4.a.(i)(A)        General Provisions

    Section I.D.4.a.(i)           Control Requirements

    Section I.D.4.b.(i)           Control Requirements

    Section I.D.4.c.              Control Requirements listed engines ≥ 1000 HP

5.5. Additional Requirements for Natural Gas Fired Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines:
    Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5 (State-Only).

    Stationary natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with a manufacturer’s
    design rate greater than or equal to 1000 horsepower are subject to specific emission
    standards. The specific applicable standards and compliance date of any particular engine or
    any particular replacement of that engine at any particular point in time is variable,




                                           Page 43 of 48
    dependent on multiple factors, and can potentially be subject to further changes at the
    discretion of the owner or operator.

    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section I.D.5.a      Applicability and exemptions

    Section I.D.5.b      Standards for engines not under a company-wide plan

    Section I.D.5.c      Alternative Company-Wide Compliance Plan

    Section I.D.5.d      Performance Testing

    Section I.D.5.e      Monitoring and Combustion Process Adjustment

    Section I.D.5.f      Recordkeeping

    Section I.D.5.g      Reporting

5.6. Additional Requirements for Natural Gas Fired Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines:
    Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6 (State-Only).

    Rich burn stationary natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines with a
    manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to 100 horsepower but less than 1000
    horsepower and lean burn stationary natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion
    engines with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to 250 horsepower but less
    than 1000 horsepower are subject to specific emission standards. The specific applicable
    standards and compliance date of any particular engine or any particular replacement of that
    engine at any particular point in time is variable, dependent on multiple factors, and can
    potentially be subject to further changes at the discretion of the owner or operator.

    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section I.D.6.a      Applicability and exemptions

    Section I.D.6.b      Emission Standards and Compliance deadlines


                                           Page 44 of 48
    Section I.D.6.c           Performance Testing

    Section I.D.6.d           Monitoring and Combustion Process Adjustment

    Section I.D.6.e           Recordkeeping

    Section I.D.6.f           Reporting

5.7. Control of Emissions from Stationary and Portable Combustion Equipment in the 8-hour
    Ozone Control Area or Northern Weld County: Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section II

    Replacements stationary internal combustion engines that were located at a major sources of
    NOx prior to specific dates must complete inspections and adjustments.

    For specific rule requirements, see:

    Section II.A.1                  Applicability

    Section II.A.2                  Exemptions

    Section II.A.6.b.(iv) & (vii) Combustion Process Adjustment for Engines

    Section II.A.6.b.(viii)         Compliance dates and frequency

    Section II.A.6.c                Alternatives

    Section II.A.7                  Recordkeeping

5.8. Control of Emissions from Specific Major Sources of VOC and/or NOx in the 8-hour Ozone
    Control Area: Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section III.

    Replacements of units specifically identified in Section III are subject to the additional
    requirements of the original unit, as specified in Section III.

5.9. NSPS for stationary spark ignition internal combustion engines: 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart JJJJ




                                              Page 45 of 48
       A permanent replacement engine that is manufactured on or after 1/1/09 for emergency
       engines greater than 25 hp, 7/1/2008 for engines less than 500 hp, 7/1/2007 for engines
       greater than or equal to 500 hp except for lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 hp
       and less than 1,350 hp, and 1/1/2008 for lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 hp
       and less than 1,350 hp are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart JJJJ.

       Note that the initial test required by NSPS Subpart JJJJ can serve as the testing required by
       this AOS under Item 6, if approved in advance by the Division, provided that such test is
       conducted within the time frame specified in Item 6.

       Under the provisions of Regulation Number 6 Part B, Section I.C, which are triggered upon
       the adoption of NSPS JJJJ, relocation of an internal combustion engine (ICE) is defined as
       the earlier of the date the owner or operator submits an APEN to the Division, or the date
       the ICE is placed in a secured location where it is intended to be operated within the State
       of Colorado. However, as of March 23, 2023 the Division has not yet adopted NSPS JJJJ.
       Until such time as it does, any engine subject to NSPS JJJJ will be subject only under
       Federal law. Once the Division adopts NSPS JJJJ, determination of the applicable State-Only
       Enforceable requirements of NSPS JJJJ for the purposes of Regulation Number 6 must be
       based on the relocation date (if any) as defined in § I.C.1.a. Note that special provisions
       apply to engines < 500 hp. Refer to PS-Memo 10-03 for additional information on Regulation
       Number 6 applicability for new and relocated engines.

   5.10.     Reciprocating internal combustion engine (RICE) MACT: 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ

       A permanent replacement engine located at either an area or major source is subject to the
       requirements in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ.

       Note that the initial test required by the MACT can serve as the testing required by this AOS
       under Item 6, if approved in advance by the Division, provided that such test is conducted
       within the time frame specified in Item 6.

6. Portable Analyzer Monitoring




                                            Page 46 of 48
Note: In some cases there may be conflicting and/or duplicative testing requirements due to
overlapping Applicable Requirements. In those instances, please contact the Division’s
Compliance and Enforcement Unit to discuss streamlining the testing requirements.

Note that the testing required by this Condition may be used to satisfy the portable analyzer
monitoring requirements specified by the permit for the relevant time period (i.e. if the permit
requires quarterly portable analyzer monitoring, this monitoring event conducted under the AOS
will serve as the quarterly monitoring event required by the permit and an additional portable
analyzer monitoring event is not required for another three months).

The owner or operator may conduct a reference method test, in lieu of the portable analyzer test
required by this Condition, if approved in advance by the Division.

The owner or operator must measure nitrogen oxide (NOx) and carbon monoxide (CO) emissions
in the exhaust from the replacement engine using a portable flue gas analyzer within seven (7)
calendar days of commencing operation of the replacement engine.

All portable analyzer monitoring required by this permit must be conducted using the Division’s
Portable Analyzer Monitoring Protocol (ver March 2006 or newer) as found on the Division’s web
site at: https://cdphe.colorado.gov/compliance-and-enforcement

Results of the portable analyzer monitoring must be used to monitor the compliance status of this
unit, except for any specifically applicable emission limitations or standards for which an
applicable requirement specifies a performance test or Continuous Emission Monitoring System as
the compliance monitoring method.

For comparison with an annual (tons/year) or short term (lbs/unit of time) emission limit, the
results of the monitoring event must be converted to a lb/hr basis and multiplied by the
allowable operating hours in the month or year (whichever applies) in order to monitor
compliance. If a source is not limited in its hours of operation the test results will be multiplied
by the maximum number of hours in the month (744) or year (8760), whichever applies.

For comparison with a short-term limit that is either input based (lb/mmBtu), output based
(g/hp-hr) or concentration based (ppmvd @ 15% O2) that the existing unit is currently subject to


                                          Page 47 of 48
or the replacement engine will be subject to, the results of the test must be converted to the
appropriate units as described in the above-mentioned Portable Analyzer Monitoring Protocol
document.

If the portable analyzer results indicate compliance with both the NOx and CO emission
limitations, in the absence of credible evidence to the contrary, the owner or operator may
certify that the engine is in compliance with both the NOx and CO emission limitations for the
relevant time period.

Subject to the provisions of C.R.S. 25-7-123.1 and in the absence of credible evidence to the
contrary, if the portable analyzer results fail to demonstrate compliance with either the NOx or
CO emission limitations, the engine will be considered to be out of compliance from the date of
the portable analyzer test until a portable analyzer test indicates compliance with both the NOx
and CO emission limitations or until the engine is taken offline.




                                          Page 48 of 48
