                           GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT
                                         Land Development Projects


PERMIT NO: GP03                                                                     FINAL APPROVAL
                                                                                     Issuance 2




                                                                                      January 24, 2020
R K Hancock III, P.E.                                                                 Date Issued
Construction Permits Unit Supervisor

Note: See the Land Development General Permit Guidance document available through the Division’s Small
Business Assistance Program for further information on demonstrating compliance with the requirements of this
permit.

I.                General Permit Applicability

I.A.              The owner or operator of any land development activity that can comply with all of the operating
                  conditions described in Section II of this permit and meet all requirements of this Section 0 may
                  register for this general permit.

I.B.              Land development refers to all land clearing activities, including but not limited to land preparation
                  such as excavating or grading, for residential, commercial, or industrial development, or oil and gas
                  exploration and production. Land development does not include mining operations or the disturbance
                  of contaminated soils.

I.C.              Land development activities that are less than 25 contiguous acres and less than 6 months in
                  duration are exempt from permitting and do not need to report air emissions to the Division. For
                  these projects, operators must use appropriate control measures to minimize the release of fugitive
                  dust from the site.

II.               Operating Terms and Conditions

II.A.             Emission Limitations

        II.A.1.       Project will not exceed 1850 acres in size. Any project over 1850 acres will be subject to a
                      Construction Permit and Public Notice proceedings.

II.B.             General Operating Conditions

        II.B.1.       Particulate emissions Control Plan




                                                           Page 1 of 5
         II.B.1.a.     THE FOLLOWING PARTICULATE EMISSIONS CONTROL MEASURES SHALL BE USED
                       FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES ON THE SOURCES COVERED BY THIS PERMIT, AS
                       REQUIRED BY THE AIR QUALITY CONTROL COMMISSION REGULATION NO 1. THIS
                       SOURCE IS SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING EMISSION GUIDELINES:

             II.B.1.a.(i)   All Activities - Visible emissions not to exceed 20%, no off-property transport of visible
                                 emissions.

             II.B.1.a.(ii) Haul Roads - No off-property transport of visible emissions shall apply to on-site haul
                              roads, the nuisance guidelines shall apply to off-site haul roads.

             II.B.1.a.(iii) Haul Trucks - There shall be no off-property transport of visible emissions from haul
                               trucks when operating on the property of the owner or operator. There shall be no
                               off-vehicle transport of visible emissions from the material in the haul trucks when
                               operating off of the property of the owner or operator.

         II.B.1.b.     Control Measures

             II.B.1.b.(i)   All unpaved roads and other disturbed surface areas on site must be watered as
                                 necessary to prevent off-property transport of visible fugitive particulate emissions.

             II.B.1.b.(ii) Vehicle speed on all unpaved roads and disturbed areas shall not exceed a maximum of
                              30 mph. Speed limit signs shall be posted.

             II.B.1.b.(iii) No earthwork activities shall be performed when the wind speed exceeds 30 miles per
                               hour.

             II.B.1.b.(iv) All disturbed surface areas shall be revegetated within one year and according to the
                                information submitted by the applicant with the permit application.

             II.B.1.b.(v) Gravel entryways shall be utilized to prevent mud and dirt carryout onto paved surfaces.
                             Any mud and dirt carryout onto paved surfaces shall be cleaned up daily.

         II.B.1.c.     Other control measures recommended by the Division, but not required for general permitting

             II.B.1.c.(i)   Foundation soil shall be compacted on a daily basis to within 90% of maximum
                               compaction.

             II.B.1.c.(ii) Silt fencing shall be installed prior to overlotting along all property borders that are
                                adjacent to developed areas.

             II.B.1.c.(iii) Surface area disturbed shall be minimized as described in the information submitted by
                                the applicant with the permit application.

III.         General Recordkeeping

III.A.       The records in this section shall be maintained on site.

III.B.       The current version of this general construction permit.

III.C.       The most recently submitted Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN).

III.D.       The general permit registration approval letter.




                                                        Page 2 of 5
IV.             General Permit Terms and Administration

IV.A.           General Terms

      IV.A.1. Land development owner/operator agreement to Particulate Emissions Control Plan (II.B.1) will result
                 in issuance of general permit approval letter.

      IV.A.2. A land development general permit will be valid for five (5) years from the initial date of the approval
                  letter issuance. Any project exceeding five years will be required to file an APEN update after five
                  years.

      IV.A.3. One APEN will be submitted per project. Multiple phases may be covered under a single APEN
                 provided that the entire project is less than the 1850 acres.

      IV.A.4.       A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) shall be filed: (Reference: Regulation No. 3,
                    Part A, Section II.C.)

          IV.A.4.a.     Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any facility, process, or activity; or

          IV.A.4.b.     No later than 30 days before the five-year term of the existing APEN expires.

      IV.A.5.       This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado Air Quality Control
                    Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention And Control Act C.R.S. (25-7-101 et seq),
                    to those general and specific terms and conditions included in this document.

      IV.A.6.       Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions contained in this permit
                    have been determined by the Division to be necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
                    of Section 25-7-114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

      IV.A.7.       Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not severable. Any
                    challenge to or appeal of, a condition hereof shall constitute a rejection of the entire permit and
                    upon such occurrence, this permit shall be deemed denied ab initio.

      IV.A.8.       Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
                    Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may result in administrative, civil or criminal
                    enforcement actions under Sections 25-7-115 (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil
                    penalties), -122.1 (criminal penalties), C.R.S.

      IV.A.9.       Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy and completeness of
                    information supplied by the applicant and is conditioned upon operation of the source, in
                    accordance with this information and with representations made by the applicant or applicant's
                    agents. It is valid only for the equipment and operations or activity specifically identified on the
                    general permit registration.

IV.B.           Registration Certification

      IV.B.1.       Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective from the date the
                    complete registration request is received by the Division. A complete registration request
                    consists of all General Permit application materials required by the Division including, but not
                    limited to, the APEN fee and General Permit registration fee, an impact analysis that
                    demonstrates, that the APEN requested emissions from the proposed source or modification will
                    not cause or contribute to concentrations of air pollutants in ambient air in violation of any
                    applicable state or national ambient air quality standard. The owner or operator may commence
                    construction and operation of the land development project as represented in the registration
                    upon submission of the completed registration request. In the event the land development project


                                                        Page 3 of 5
                   does not qualify for registration under the general permit or is demonstrated to violate an
                   applicable ambient air quality standard, the owner or operator accepts the liability of commencing
                   these activities.

IV.C.         Registration Modification

    IV.C.1.        In order to modify operations under the general permit, the owner or operator must submit a new
                   general permit application and APEN to the Division. This application will detail the changes
                   being made to the project. Reasons for submitting a modification include, but are not limited to:

         IV.C.1.a.         Increase in project size resulting in greater emission.

         IV.C.1.b.         Increase in the duration of the project resulting in fugitive particulates being released longer
                           than initially reported.

         IV.C.1.c.         An increase in the amount of paving being performed on the site.

         IV.C.1.d.         A decrease in dust control measures being implemented from those initially reported.

IV.D.         Registration Revision / Termination

    IV.D.1.        The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit under the circumstances
                   specified in Regulation No. 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.

    IV.D.2.        A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner by the Division as
                   provided in Regulation No. 3, Part B, Section II.B. upon a request for transfer of ownership and
                   the submittal of a revised APEN and the required fees.

    IV.D.3.        Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The permittee may withdraw or cancel a
                   registration under this general permit at any time by notifying the Division in writing.

IV.E.         General Permit Revision / Termination

    IV.E.1.        This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the Division in accordance
                   with the provisions of Regulation No. 3.

    IV.E.2.        After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation No. 3, Part B, Section III.I.7., the
                   Division may revise this general permit in order to add or delete requirements or limitations to the
                   permit. This public notice shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of
                   Regulation No. 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

    IV.E.3.        If a revised general permit is issued by the Division, any existing registration to use the general
                   permit will be automatically converted to a registration to use the revised general permit, provided
                   that the permittee continues to meet all requirements of the revised general permit. Persons not
                   wishing to continue coverage under the revised general permit shall have the option of applying
                   for an individual permit as required by Regulation No. 3, Part B.

    IV.E.4.        If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice to affected registrants
                   prior to the termination of the general permit. The notice will advise registrants that they must
                   apply for an individual permit as required by Regulation No. 3, Part B.
Permit History

         Final Approval issued October 17, 2008.

         Modification 1:       Removal of requirement that owner or operator receive Division approval prior to commencement of project.




                                                               Page 4 of 5
Modification 2:   Removed specific fee language and add fee language as part of a complete application.




                                                  Page 5 of 5
