                   GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                     Oil and Gas Industry

                     Produced Water Storage Tank Batteries


 Permit Number GP05 Issuance 5                                       Final Approval



                                                                     July 23, 2025


 Bradley Eades, PE                                                   Date Issued


 Oil & Gas Permitting Section Supervisor


Table of Contents

I.     General Permit Applicability ............................................................. 2

II.    Operating Terms and Conditions ………………………………………………………………………..4

III.   Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS) .................................................. 8

IV.    Operating and Maintenance Plan ........................................................ 9

V.     Recordkeeping and Reporting .......................................................... 13

VI.    Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-Attainment Area15




                                              Page 1 of 26
VII.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI)
         Communities ............................................................................. 18

IX.      General Permit Terms and Administration ........................................... 19

X.       Additional Requirements ............................................................... 24




Note: See the Oil &, Gas Produced Water Tank Batteries Regulatory Definitions and
Permitting Guidance document (PS Memo 09-02) and the Emission Calculation Manual
for further information on definitions, and emission calculation guidelines.

I.             General Permit Applicability

I.A.           Qualified Sources: The owner or operator of any oil and gas industry
               (exploration and production (E&P), non-E&P, midstream and downstream)
               operation that can comply with all of the operating conditions described in
               Section II of this permit and meet all of the requirements in this Section
               may register for this general permit. This general permit covers the
               following:

      I.A.1.      Produced water storage tank batteries comprised of a single storage tank
                  or a group of storage tanks used for the storage of produced water.

      I.A.2.      Combustion devices, vapor recovery units, or other Division-approved
                  control equipment used to reduce emissions by at least 95%.

      I.A.3.      Equipment as described in condition I.A.1 and I.A.2 located at a true
                  minor source or synthetic minor source for Operating Permit (OP), New
                  Source Review (NSR), and Maximum Achievable Control Technology
                  (MACT) program applicability, except as provided for in I.B., I.C., and
                  I.D. below.



                                                Page 2 of 26
I.B.   Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit
       requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source
       which a complete GP05 registration request was received by the Division
       prior to the effective date (January 27, 2020) on which the 8-hour Ozone
       Control Area was re-classified, from moderate to serious may continue to
       operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined
       in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023,
       Effective 02/14/2024).

I.C.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
       requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source
       due to the reclassification of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to
       severe, and b) for which a complete GP05 registration request was received
       by the Division prior to the effective date of GP05, Issuance 4 (November 3,
       2022), may continue to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone
       Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1.
       (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.D.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
       requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for
       which a GP05 registration request was deemed complete by the Division
       prior to the effective date (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County
       was re-classified from moderate to serious may continue to operate under
       this General Permit. Northern Weld County is as defined in Regulation
       Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.3. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
       02/14/2024).

I.E.   This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in Section
       I.A. above having uncontrolled actual emissions of Sulfur Oxides (SOx),
       Particulate Matter (PM), Particulate Matter 2.5 (PM2.5), and Particulate




                                      Page 3 of 26
                Matter 10 (PM10) less than the APEN reporting thresholds for each pollutant
                in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D.1.a.

I.F.            Excluded Sources: The following sources may not register for this general
                permit:

      I.F.1.       Equipment subject to a New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) other
                   than NSPS Subpart OOOO, OOOOa, and OOOOb - Standards of
                   Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities.

      I.F.2.       This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in
                   Section I.A. above. Other equipment at the same stationary source must
                   be permitted separately as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

      I.F.3.       Newly constructed or modified existing equipment that is part of a
                   project permit action that is subject to Non-Attainment New Source
                   Review (NA NSR) or Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
                   permitting under Regulation Number 3, Part D.

II.             Operating Terms and Conditions

II.A.           Emission Limitations Specific to Tanks Registered Under This General Permit

      II.A.1.      Combined maximum allowable controlled emissions of the following air
                   pollutants from all produced water tank batteries that are owned or
                   operated by the same person and co-located at the same stationary
                   source must not exceed the following limitations (Reference: Regulation
                   Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.):

          II.A.1.a. For facilities located outside the boundaries of an ozone
                      nonattainment area (Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1):

                                  Volatile Organic Compounds: 10.0 tons per year



                                               Page 4 of 26
           II.A.1.b. For facilities located within the boundaries of an ozone
                     nonattainment area (for reclassifications of an existing
                     nonattainment area, the limit applies for the existing classification
                     until the effective date of reclassification):

                     II.A.1.b.(i)    For facilities located within an ozone nonattainment
                                     area which is classified as Marginal or Moderate:

                                          Volatile Organic Compounds: 10.0 tons per year

                     II.A.1.b.(ii)   For facilities located within an ozone nonattainment
                                     area which is classified as Serious or Severe:

                                          Volatile Organic Compounds:3.0 tons per year

        II.A.2.   For new or modified registrations deemed complete on or after the
                  effective date of this permit issuance (Issuance 5), the maximum
                  allowable emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and carbon monoxide (CO)
                  from all tank batteries and control of emissions from all tank batteries
                  under the GP05 registration that are owned and operated by the same
                  person and co-located at the same stationary source must not exceed
                  the requested annual emission limitations (tons per year) as listed on
                  the general permit registration approval letter, or if an approval letter
                  has not been issued, as certified by the owner or operator in the APEN
                  included with the general permit registration APEN (Regulation Number
                  3, Part B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

II.B.         Facility-Wide Emission Limitation Requirements

        II.B.1.   The owner or operator not subject to Conditions I.B. or I.C. or I.D. of
                  this permit must track potential emissions from all insignificant
                  activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance
                  with the facility emission limitations indicated below. An inventory of


                                                Page 5 of 26
each insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be
made available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the
purposes of this condition, insignificant activities are defined as any
activity or equipment, which emits any amount but does not require an
APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing
nonattainment area, the limit applies for the existing classification until
the effective date of reclassification. (Regulation Number 3, Part B.
Section III.E.)

II.B.1.a. Facilities located in an area classified as attainment, marginal
         nonattainment, or moderate nonattainment for all pollutants,
         total potential point source emissions from the facility,
         including all permitted emissions and potential to emit from all
         insignificant activities, must be less than:

                  Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):100 tons per year

                  Nitrogen Oxides (NOx): 100 tons per year

                  Carbon Monoxide (CO): 100 tons per year

II.B.1.b. Facilities located in an area classified as serious nonattainment
         for ozone, total potential point source emissions from the
         facility, including all permitted emissions and potential to emit
         from all insignificant activities, must be less than:

             Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): 50 tons per year

             Nitrogen Oxides (NOx): 50 tons per year

             Carbon Monoxide (CO): 100 tons per year

II.B.1.c. Facilities located in an area classified as severe nonattainment
         for ozone, total potential point source emissions from the

                               Page 6 of 26
                         facility, including all permitted emissions and potential to emit
                         from all insignificant activities, must be less than:

                             Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): 25 tons per year

                             Nitrogen Oxides (NOx): 25 tons per year

                             Carbon Monoxide (CO): 100 tons per year

   II.B.2.      Combined maximum allowable controlled emissions of hazardous air
                pollutant(s) (HAPs) from all equipment at the same stationary source
                must not exceed the following limitations
                (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.):

                      Each Individual HAP:           8.0 tons per year

                      Total of all HAPs:             20.0 tons per year

   II.B.3.      A control device may be used to comply with these emission limits.

II.C.        General Operating Conditions

   II.C.1.      This source is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number 2.

   II.C.2.      The ten digit AIRS ID number assigned by the Division (e.g.
                123/1234/001) must be marked on the subject equipment for ease of
                identification. The permit number (i.e. GP05) must be marked on
                equipment newly registered and deemed complete on or after the
                issuance date of Issuance 5 of this general permit (Reference: Regulation
                Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)

   II.C.3.      The owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements in
                Regulation Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current
                version of Regulation Number 1.



                                             Page 7 of 26
       II.C.4.      The owner or operator must follow the Operating and Maintenance /
                    Recordkeeping and Reporting specified in Sections IV and V. (Reference:
                    Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.6.)

       II.C.5.      This source's produced water throughput must be limited by the emission
                    limits specified in this permit, and all other activities, operational
                    parameters and numbers of equipment as stated in the registration.
                    (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

II.D.            Statewide Emissions Control Requirements for Produced Water Tanks

       II.D.1.      The owner or operator may be subject to emission control, auto igniter,
                    operate without venting, storage tank emissions management (STEM)
                    plan, performance testing, metering, reporting, and recordkeeping
                    requirements contained in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B and
                    Section II.C.

III.             Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS)

III.A.           Provided that there are no emissions increases, and the emission limits set
                 forth in Section II.A. and Section II.B. are still met, the owner or operator
                 may invoke an AOS for the following changes to an existing tank battery
                 registered under the general permit without modifying the general permit
                 registration:

                       •   Replacement of an existing control device by control equipment
                           of the same make, model and no changes to the configuration
                           that will impact a dispersion model analysis; or

                       •   Replacement of a storage vessel with another storage vessel of
                           the same type, dimensions, and physical characteristics (e.g.,
                           same design, same color, same construction material) and no



                                                 Page 8 of 26
                   changes to the configuration that will impact a dispersion
                   analysis; or

               •   Replacement of a separator with another separator of the same
                   type, dimensions, and physical characteristics (e.g., same design)
                   with no changes to the configuration that will impact a dispersion
                   analysis.

III.B.   The owner or operator must maintain a log to contemporaneously record
         the date and description of any change made under the provisions of this
         AOS. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IV.A.1.)

III.C.   The following changes are not considered modifications. These changes
         should be reflected in any revised APEN required by Condition VIII.C.1.

               •   Removal of a well serviced by the storage tank with no increase to
                   permitted emissions rates and no changes to the configuration
                   that will impact a dispersion analysis;

               •   Re-piping of an existing well with no increase to permitted
                   emissions rates and no changes to the configuration that will
                   impact a dispersion analysis;

               •   Routine equipment maintenance, repair and replacement, except
                   as otherwise listed in Condition III.A., with no increase to
                   permitted emissions rates and no changes to the configuration
                   that will impact a dispersion analysis

IV.      Operating and Maintenance Plan

IV.A.    Combustion devices operated to control emissions authorized by this permit
         must be enclosed; have no visible emissions during normal operations, as
         defined under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.A.45; and be


                                         Page 9 of 26
         designed so that an observer can, by means of visual observation from the
         outside of the combustion device, or by other convenient means approved
         by the Division, determine whether the combustion device is operating
         properly. This combustion device must be equipped with an operational
         auto-igniter according to the schedule in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
         Section II.B.2.d. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections II.B.2.b.
         and II.B.2.d., effective 02/14/2024).

IV.B.    If a control device is used to comply with the emission limits in Section II.A.
         of this permit the following conditions must be met:

   IV.B.1.   Leakage of VOCs to the atmosphere must be minimized as follows:

             IV.B.1.a. Thief hatch seals must be inspected for integrity at least
                       annually, or as otherwise specified in Regulation Number 7,
                       Part B, Section II.C., and replaced as necessary. Thief hatch
                       covers must be weighted and properly sealed.

             IV.B.1.b. Pressure relief valves (PRV) must be inspected for proper
                       operation at least annually, or as otherwise specified in
                       Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C., and replaced as
                       necessary. PRVs must be set to release at a pressure that will
                       ensure flashing, working and breathing losses are routed to the
                       control device under normal operating conditions.

             IV.B.1.c. Inspections of thief hatches and PRVs must be documented
                       with an indication of status, a description of any problems
                       found, and their resolution.

   IV.B.2.   Control devices must be adequately designed, and operated and
             maintained according to manufacturer specifications to achieve a
             control efficiency of at least 95%, and to handle reasonably foreseeable



                                         Page 10 of 26
                fluctuations in emissions of VOCs. Fluctuations in emissions that occur
                when the separator dumps into the tank are reasonably foreseeable.

    IV.B.3.     All produced water collection, storage, processing and handling
                operations, regardless of size, must be designed, operated and
                maintained so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic compounds to
                the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable.

    IV.B.4.     The owner or operator must commence monitoring the pilot light/auto-
                igniter and visible emissions observation and document the proper
                operation of the control device based on the monitoring frequency in
                Table 1.

                        Table 1: Monitoring Frequencies


Effective                  Classification                   Permitted              Monitoring
Date of                                                     VOC                    Frequency
Registration1                                               Emissions


Prior to                   Any                              Any                    Weekly
Issuance 5


On or after                Attainment                       Less than              Weekly
Issuance 5                                                  80 TPY


On or after                Attainment                       Greater                Daily
Issuance 5                                                  than or
                                                            equal to


1
 The Effective Date of Registration is the date that the registration request was granted conditional
certification per Condition VIII.F.1.


                                                 Page 11 of 26
Effective       Classification             Permitted   Monitoring
Date of                                    VOC         Frequency
Registration1                              Emissions

                                           80 TPY


On or after     Marginal/Moderate          Less than   Weekly
Issuance 5      Ozone Non-                 80 TPY
                Attainment


On or after     Marginal/Moderate          Greater     Daily
Issuance 5      Ozone Non-                 than or
                Attainment                 equal to
                                           80 TPY


On or after     Serious Ozone              Less than   Weekly
Issuance 5      Non-Attainment             40 TPY


On or after     Serious Ozone              Greater     Daily
Issuance 5      Non-Attainment             than or
                                           equal to
                                           40 TPY


On or after     Severe Ozone Non-          Less than   Weekly
Issuance 5      Attainment                 15 TPY


On or after     Severe Ozone Non-          Greater     Daily
Issuance 5      Attainment                 than or
                                           equal to

                                 Page 12 of 26
Effective                  Classification                Permitted           Monitoring
Date of                                                  VOC                 Frequency
Registration1                                            Emissions

                                                         15 TPY


                  Time intervals for monitoring proper operation of a control device may
                  be shorter if required under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I or
                  Section II. Indications of improper operation for a control device
                  include, but are not limited to, absence of auto-igniter or pilot light,
                  malfunction of electronic ignition, valves for piping of pilot gas or waste
                  gas to the control device not being open and/or presence of smoke. A
                  check box is suitable for recording proper operation. Improper
                  operation of a control device must be further documented with a
                  description of the problem and its resolution, the date range the
                  control was inoperable, and the production through the battery during
                  the downtime. Inspections can be done by either visible observation or
                  other means approved by the Division. During control device downtime,
                  emissions must be considered to be uncontrolled.

V.            Recordkeeping and Reporting

V.A.          Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy provided that
              they can be promptly supplied to the Division upon its request. All records
              must be retained for a period of five years.

V.B.          For all tank batteries, the following records must be maintained on site or
              at a local field office with site responsibility for Division review:

     V.B.1.      The current issuance of this general construction permit.




                                               Page 13 of 26
V.B.2.   The most recently submitted APEN and any required site-specific
         emission factor documentation.

V.B.3.   The general permit registration approval letter (once issued).

V.B.4.   Records of installation dates for each individual storage vessel installed.

V.B.5.   Records that clearly demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of
         this permit. This must include the most currently available produced
         water production records necessary to calculate emissions in accordance
         with this Condition V.B.4. and documentation of all periods of control
         device downtime for sources where a control device is required to
         comply with emission limits of Section II.A. of this permit.

         V.B.5.a. For sources located at a true minor facility, compliance with
                    the emission limits in Section II.A. and Section II.B. must be
                    determined by calculating the annual emissions from each
                    emission unit for the calendar year.

         V.B.5.b. For sources located at a synthetic minor or major facilities,
                    compliance with the emission limits in Section II.A. and
                    Section II.B. must be determined by recording the annual
                    emissions from each emission unit on a rolling 12-month total.
                    By the end of each month a new 12-month total is calculated
                    based on the previous 12 months’ data. During the first year
                    of operation, compliance must be assumed providing that
                    cumulative emissions from all months of operation do not
                    exceed the emission limits in Section II.A.

V.B.6.   Records required by Conditions III.B. (AOS), IV.B.1.c. (Annual tank
         inspections) and IV.B.4. (Control device monitoring).




                                     Page 14 of 26
      V.B.7.      On or before June 30th of each calendar year, the owner or operator of
                  oil and natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural
                  gas processing plant or class II disposal well facilities in Colorado must
                  submit a single annual report that includes actual emissions and
                  specified information in the Division-approved report format. The
                  information included in the annual report must be in accordance with
                  the general reporting requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                  Section V.B. Each calendar year, owners or operators must maintain the
                  information according to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.C. for
                  inclusion in the annual report. (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V)

VI.            Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-
               Attainment Area

VI.A.          This Section VI only applies to facilities located in an Ozone Non-
               Attainment Area. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.A.1)

VI.B.          The owner or operator may be subject to emission control, monitoring,
               performance testing, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements
               contained in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.C., Section I.D. and
               Section I.F.

VI.C.          Control devices used to comply with Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections
               I.D.3. and II.D.2. must be a combustion device or a vapor recovery unit and
               must meet all requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.C.1.
               and II.B.2. Alternative control equipment must be approved via an
               individual permit as required by Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.D.4.
               or II.B.2.e.

VI.D.          At the frequency specified in Table 2, the owner or operator of storage
               tanks utilizing site-specific emission factors must complete site-specific
               sampling as necessary to develop site-specific emission factors. Periodic


                                               Page 15 of 26
            site-specific sampling must be conducted at a minimum of one hundred and
            eighty (180) days apart. Sampling and analysis must be in accordance with
            Division-approved methods and, where flash is expected, the sample must
            be obtained from the outlet of separation equipment immediately prior to
            the storage tank, where technically feasible. Results of the analysis must be
            used to calculate site-specific emissions factors for VOC (in units of lb/bbl
            hydrocarbon liquid throughput) using Division-approved methods. The total
            calculated emission factors must include all flash, working and breathing
            emissions. Results of the analysis must be used to demonstrate that the VOC
            emission factor established through the analysis is less than or equal to, the
            emission factor submitted with the GP05 registration and established on the
            APEN for this emissions point. If the VOC site-specific emission factor
            developed through this analysis is greater than the emission factor
            submitted with the GP05 registration and established on the most recently
            submitted APEN for this emissions point, the operator must submit to the
            Division within 90 days, or in a timeframe as agreed to by the Division, a
            modification to address this inaccuracy. Records of periodic site-specific
            sampling must be maintained by the owner or operator for a minimum of
            five (5) years and made available to the Division for inspection upon
            request.

                        Table 2: Sampling Frequencies


    Effective                 Classification                     Permitted                Frequency
    Date of                                                      VOC
    Registration2                                                Emissions


    Prior to                  Any                                Any                      Every 5


2
 The Effective Date of Registration is the date that the registration request was granted conditional
certification per Condition VIII.F.1.

                                                 Page 16 of 26
Effective       Classification                   Permitted      Frequency
Date of                                          VOC
Registration2                                    Emissions

Issuance 5                                                      years


On or after     Marginal/Moderate                Less than 90   Every 5
Issuance 5      Ozone Non-                       TPY            years
                Attainment


On or after     Marginal/Moderate                Greater        Annually
Issuance 5      Ozone Non-                       than or
                Attainment                       equal to 90
                                                 TPY


On or after     Serious Ozone                    Less than 40   Every 5
Issuance 5      Non-Attainment                   TPY            years


On or after     Serious Ozone                    Greater        Annually
Issuance 5      Non-Attainment                   than or
                                                 equal to 40
                                                 TPY


On or after     Severe Ozone Non-                Less than 15   Every 5
Issuance 5      Attainment                       TPY            years


On or after     Severe Ozone Non-                Greater        Annually




                                 Page 17 of 26
       Effective              Classification                   Permitted      Frequency
       Date of                                                 VOC
       Registration2                                           Emissions

       Issuance 5             Attainment                       than or
                                                               equal to 15
                                                               TPY


VII.         Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately
             Impacted (DI) Communities

VII.A.       Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in
             Disproportionately Impacted Communities must submit a notification at the
             time of registration for a general permit or permits issued pursuant to
             Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I. indicating the source will comply
             with the monitoring requirements outlined in Regulation Number 3, Part B,
             Section III.J., as applicable, by either:

              VII.A.1.   Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to Section
                         III.J.2. of Part B;

              VII.A.2.   Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section III.J.3. of
                         Part B; or

              VII.A.3.   Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant to
                         Section III.J.4. of Part B.

             Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring methodology selected
             on the general permit registration form.




                                               Page 18 of 26
VII.B.    Owners or operators subject to VII.A.1 must submit a Division-approved
          source-specific monitoring plan as part of a complete registration request.
          (Regulation Number 3, Part B, III.E.)

VIII.     General Permit Terms and Administration

VIII.A.   A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit
          requirements and is operating under Condition I.A.4 or I.A.5. must submit a
          Title V application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general
          permit into a Title V Operating Permit. The due date for this application is
          one year from the date on which the facility becomes subject to Title V
          Operating Permit requirements.

VIII.B.   In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C.5,
          some or all of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be
          incorporated as specific conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit
          (if applicable). Additional monitoring not listed in this general permit may
          be included in the source’s Operating Permit in order to satisfy the periodic
          monitoring requirements of Section V.C.5.b.

VIII.C.   General Terms

    VIII.C.1. A revised APEN must be filed: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A,
              Section II.C.)

          VIII.C.1.a.Annually by April 30th of the year following a significant increase
                 in emissions as follows:

              VIII.C.1.a.(i)   For VOC, a change in actual emissions of five (5) tons per
                               year or more, above the level reported on the last APEN;
                               or

              VIII.C.1.a.(ii) For volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides
                               sources in ozone non-attainment areas, a change in

                                            Page 19 of 26
                         annual actual emissions of one ton per year or more or
                         five percent, whichever is greater, above the level
                         reported on the last APEN submitted to the Division; or

         VIII.C.1.a.(iii) For any non-criteria reportable pollutant, if the emissions
                         increase by 50% or five (5) tons per year, whichever is
                         less, above the level reported on the last APEN.

     VIII.C.1.b. Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any
            facility, process, or activity; or

     VIII.C.1.c. As required by the alternative operating scenario allowed by
            Section III; or,

     VIII.C.1.d. No later than 30 days before the existing APEN expires.

VIII.C.2. The requirements of Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part D must apply
         at such time that any stationary source or modification becomes a major
         stationary source or major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation
         in any enforceable limitation that was established after August 7, 1980,
         on the capacity of the source or modification to otherwise emit a
         pollutant such as a restriction on hours of operation (Colorado
         Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections VI.B.4 and/or V.A.7.b).

VIII.C.3. Sources covered by this General Permit are subject to the Common
         Provisions Regulation Part II, Subpart E, Upset Conditions and
         Breakdowns. The owner or operator must notify the Division of any upset
         condition which causes a violation of any emission limit or limits
         stated in this permit as soon as possible, but no later than noon of the
         Division’s next working day, followed by written notice to the Division
         explaining the cause of the occurrence and that proper action has been
         or is being taken to correct the conditions causing said violation and to
         prevent such excess emission in the future.

                                      Page 20 of 26
   VIII.C.4. This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the
             Colorado Air Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution
             Prevention And Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those
             general and specific terms and conditions included in this document.

   VIII.C.5. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
             contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be
             necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of Section 25-7-
             114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

   VIII.C.6. Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is
             not severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the
             permittee will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon
             such occurrence, this permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

   VIII.C.7. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all sources required to file
             an Air Pollution Emission Notice (APEN) must pay an annual fee to cover
             the costs of inspections and administration.

   VIII.C.8. Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
             Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may
             result in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under
             Sections 25-7-115 (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil
             penalties), -122.1 (criminal penalties), C.R.S.

   VIII.C.9. Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the
             accuracy and completeness of information supplied by the applicant and
             is conditioned upon operation of the source, in accordance with this
             information and with representations made by the applicant or
             applicant's agents. It is valid only for the equipment and operations or
             activity specifically identified on the general permit registration.

VIII.D.   Registration Revision / Termination

                                         Page 21 of 26
   VIII.D.1. The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit
             under the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B,
             Section III.I.3.c.

   VIII.D.2. A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new
             owner o r i n a n e w c o m p a n y n a m e by the Division as provided
             in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.B. upon a request for
             transfer of ownership or company name change and the submittal of
             a revised APEN and the required fees.

   VIII.D.3. Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or
             operator may withdraw or cancel a registration under this general
             permit at any time by notifying the Division in writing.

VIII.E.   General Permit Revision / Termination

   VIII.E.1. This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
             Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3.

   VIII.E.2. After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3,
             Part B, Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in
             order to add or delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This
             public notice must be conducted in a manner consistent with the
             provisions of Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

   VIII.E.3. If a revised general permit is issued by the Division, any existing
             registration to use the general permit will be automatically converted to
             a registration to use the revised general permit, and the owner or
             operator is subject to requirements of the revised general permit.
             Persons not wishing to continue coverage under the revised general
             permit have the option of applying for an individual permit as required
             by Regulation Number 3, Part B.



                                          Page 22 of 26
   VIII.E.4. If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written
             notice to affected registrants prior to the termination of the general
             permit. The notice will advise registrants that they must apply for an
             individual permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

    VIII.E.5. The Division may require any source authorized by a general
              construction permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit if
              circumstances have changed since the time of the original general
              permit application so that the source is no longer appropriately
              controlled and/or permitted under the general construction permit.
              (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.(i)(B)

VIII.F.   General Permit Registration Approval Process

   VIII.F.1. Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is
             effective from the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated
             in Condition VIII.F.2. A complete registration request consists of all
             General Permit application materials required by the Division and
             associated fees. The owner or operator may commence construction and
             operation of the storage tank(s) as represented in the registration once
             the registration is deemed complete. In the event the storage tank(s)
             does not qualify for registration under the general permit the owner or
             operator accepts the liability of commencing these activities.

   VIII.F.2. The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit
             registration request within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the
             request and provide written notification to the applicant. If the
             applicant does not receive notification of a completeness determination
             from the Division within sixty (60) days, the General Permit registration
             request must be deemed complete for the purpose of Conditions VIII.F.1.
             and VIII.F.2.



                                         Page 23 of 26
      VIII.F.3. The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division
                receives a complete General Permit registration request to provide the
                applicant with a written approval or denial of the registration.

IX.         Additional Requirements

IX.A.       Produced water storage tanks subject to 40 CFR Part 60, NSPS Subpart
            OOOO, OOOOa, or OOOOb - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and
            Natural Gas Facilities must comply with all applicable requirements of that
            subpart including, but not limited to, emissions standards, testing,
            notification, monitoring, records and reporting.

IX.B.       The owner or operator must maintain documentation clearly outlining
            applicable requirements of New Source Performance Standard (NSPS)
            Subpart OOOO, OOOOa, or OOOOb – Standards of Performance for Crude Oil
            and Natural Gas Facilities for the produced water storage tank battery
            registered under this general permit. The documentation must be located
            on-site or at a local field office with stationary source responsibility.
            Records may be kept in either electronic or hard copy format provided that
            they can be promptly supplied to the Division upon request.

Permit History


 Issuance             Date                    Description


 Issuance 1           28 September            Initial issuance
                      2009


 Issuance 2           15 May 2013             Revised




                                            Page 24 of 26
Issuance     Date              Description


Issuance 3   24 January        Revised to address the Denver
             2020              ozone nonattainment area re-
                               classification from moderate to
                               serious


Issuance 4   3 November        •   Revised to address the 8-hour
             2022                  Ozone Control Area re-
                                   classification from serious to
                                   severe for existing
                                   registrations


Issuance 5   This Issuance     •   Revised to address: Revised
                                   to address Northern Weld
                                   County Area re-classification
                                   from moderate to serious for
                                   existing registrations.

                               •   Changes to the structure of
                                   AQCC Regulation Number 7;
                                   and

                                   New emissions control,
                                   reporting, recordkeeping,
                                   performance testing,
                                   training, operating, and
                                   monitoring requirements




                             Page 25 of 26
Issuance   Date     Description

                        from AQCC Regulation
                        Number 7.

                    •   Modification to the AOS
                        provisions

                    •   Updates to Operating and
                        Maintenance requirements

                    •   Addition of facility-wide
                        limits for other criteria
                        pollutants

                    •   April 8, 2026 – Typographical
                        correction to Table 2.
                        Corrected references from
                        “On or after Issuance 4” to
                        “On or after Issuance 5”




                  Page 26 of 26
