                    GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                 Oil and Gas Industry

                          Hydrocarbon Liquid Loadout

 Permit Number GP07 Issuance 4                                       Final Approval


                                                                     July 23, 2025




 Bradley Eades, P.E.                                                 Date Issued


 Oil and Gas Permitting Section Supervisor




Table of Contents

   I.   General Permit Applicability .............................................................2

   II. Operating Terms and Conditions ........................................................4

   III. Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS) ................................................ 10

   IV. Operating and Maintenance Plan ...................................................... 11

   V. Recordkeeping and Reporting .......................................................... 16




                                               Page 1 of 25
     VI. Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-Attainment
            Area……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….18

     VII. Monitoring Requirments for Facilitlies located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI)
            Communities…………………………………………………………………………………………………….18

     VIII. General Permit Terms and Administration ........................................... 19




Note: See the Hydrocarbon Liquid Loadout Guidance document (PS Memo 14-02) and the
Emission Calculation Manual for further information on definitions, and emission calculation
guidelines.

I.           General Permit Applicability

I.A.         Qualified Sources: The owner or operator of any oil and gas industry (exploration
             and production (E&P), non-E&P, midstream and downstream) operation that can
             comply with all of the operating conditions described in Section II of this permit
             and meet all of the requirements in this Section may register for this general
             permit. This general permit covers the following:

             I.A.1.     Hydrocarbon liquid loading operations, including condensate loading,
                        crude oil loading and dual product loading containing commingled
                        hydrocarbon and produced water.

             I.A.2.     Combustion devices, vapor recovery units, vapor balance, or other
                        Division approved control equipment used to reduce emissions from
                        loading operations.

             I.A.3.     Equipment as described in Conditions I.A.1 and I.A.2 located at a true
                        minor source or synthetic minor source for Operating Permit (OP), New
                        Source Review (NSR), and Maximum Achievable Control Technology


                                               Page 2 of 25
                 (MACT) program applicability, except as provided for in I.B., I.C. and I.D.
                 below.

I.B.   Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements
       or became classified as an existing major stationary source for which a complete
       GP07 registration request was received by the Division prior to the effective date
       (January 27, 2020) on which 8-hour Ozone Control Area was re-classified from
       moderate to serious may continue to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour
       Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1.
       (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.C.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
       requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source due to
       the reclassification of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to severe, and
       b) for which a complete GP07 registration request was received by the Division
       prior to the effective date of GP07, Issuance 3 (November 3, 2022), may continue
       to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in
       Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
       02/14/2024).

I.D.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
       requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for which
       a GP07 registration request was deemed complete by the Division prior to the
       effective date (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County was re-classified
       from moderate to serious may continue to operate under this General Permit.
       Northern Weld County is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.3.
       (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.E.   This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in Section I.A.
       above having uncontrolled actual emissions of Sulfur Oxides (SOx), Particulate
       Matter (PM), Particulate Matter 2.5 (PM2.5), and Particulate Matter 10 (PM10) less



                                      Page 3 of 25
        than the APEN reporting thresholds for each pollutant in Regulation Number 3,
        Part A, Section II.D.1.a.

I.F.    Excluded Sources: The following sources may not register for this general permit:

        I.F.1.    This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in
                  Section I.A above. Other equipment at the same stationary source must
                  be permitted separately as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

        I.F.2.    Newly constructed or modified existing equipment that is part of a
                  project permit action that is subject to Non-Attainment New Source
                  Review (NA NSR) or Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
                  permitting under Regulation Number 3, Part D.

II.     Operating Terms and Conditions

II.A.   Emission Limitations Specific To Sources Registered Under This General Permit

        II.A.1.   Combined maximum allowable controlled emissions of the following air
                  pollutants from all loading operations that are owned or operated by the
                  same person and co-located at the same stationary source must not
                  exceed the following limitations (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part
                  B, Section II.A.4.):

            II.A.1.a. For facilities located outside the boundaries of an ozone
                      nonattainment area (Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1):

                          Volatile Organic Compounds:      10.0 tons per year

            II.A.1.b. For facilities located within the boundaries of an ozone
                      nonattainment area (for reclassifications of an existing
                      nonattainment area, the limit applies for the existing classification
                      until the effective date of reclassification):




                                         Page 4 of 25
                      II.A.1.b.(i) For facilities located within an ozone nonattainment
                                   area which is classified as Marginal or Moderate:

                                         Volatile Organic Compounds:      10.0 tons per year

                      II.A.1.b.(ii) For facilities located within an ozone nonattainment
                                   area which is classified as Serious or Severe:

                                         Volatile Organic Compounds:      3.0 tons per year

        II.A.2.   For new or modified registrations deemed complete on or after the
                  effective date of this permit issuance (Issuance 4), the maximum
                  allowable emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and carbon monoxide (CO)
                  from all hydrocarbon loadout and control of emissions from all
                  hydrocarbon loadout under the GP07 registration that are owned and
                  operated by the same person and co-located at the same stationary
                  source must not exceed the requested annual emission limitations (tons
                  per year) as listed on the general permit registration approval letter, or
                  if an approval letter has not been issued, as certified by the owner or
                  operator in the Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) included with the
                  general permit registration APEN (Regulation Number 3, Part B, Sections
                  II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

II.B.   Facility-Wide Emission Limitation Requirements

        II.B.1.   The owner or operator not subject to Conditions I.B. or I.C. or I.D. of
                  this permit must track potential emissions from all insignificant activities
                  at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance with the
                  facility emission limitations indicated below. An inventory of each
                  insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be made
                  available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes of
                  this condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or



                                          Page 5 of 25
    equipment which emits any amount of a regulated pollutant but does
    not require an APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications
    of an existing nonattainment area, the limit applies for the existing
    classification until the effective date of reclassification. (Regulation
    Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)

II.B.1.a.    Facilities located in an area classified as attainment, marginal
             nonattainment, or moderate nonattainment for all pollutants,
             total potential point source emissions from the facility, including
             all permitted emissions and potential to emit from all
             insignificant activities, must be less than:

                   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):        100 tons per year

                   Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                   100 tons per year

                   Carbon Monoxide (CO):                    100 tons per year

II.B.1.b. Facilities located in an area classified as serious nonattainment for
            ozone, total potential point source emissions from the facility,
            including all permitted emissions and potential to emit from all
            insignificant activities, must be less than:

                   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):        50 tons per year

                   Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                   50 tons per year

                   Carbon Monoxide (CO):                    100 tons per year

II.B.1.c. Facilities located in an area classified as severe nonattainment for
            ozone, total potential point source emissions from the facility,
            including all permitted emissions and potential to emit from all
            insignificant activities, must be less than:



                            Page 6 of 25
                                    Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):         25 tons per year

                                    Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                    25 tons per year

                                    Carbon Monoxide (CO):                     100 tons per year

             II.B.2.   Combined maximum allowable controlled emissions of hazardous air
                       pollutant(s) (HAPs) from all equipment at the same stationary source
                       must not exceed the following limitations: (Reference: Regulation
                       Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

                             Each Individual HAP:                8.0 tons per year

                             Total of all HAPs:                  20.0 tons per year

             II.B.3.   A control device may be used to comply with these emission limits.

II.C.        General Operating Conditions

   II.C.1.      This source is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number 2.

   II.C.2.      The ten digit AIRS ID number assigned by the Division (e.g. 123/1234/001) must
                be marked on the subject equipment for ease of identification. The permit
                number (i.e. GP07) must be marked on equipment newly registered and
                deemed complete on or after the issuance date of Issuance 4 of this general
                permit (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)

   II.C.3.      The owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements in Regulation
                Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of
                Regulation Number 1.

   II.C.4.      If emissions are routed to a control device, the owner or operator must follow
                the Operating and Maintenance plan specified in Section IV. (Reference:
                Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.6.)



                                            Page 7 of 25
II.C.5.   This source's hydrocarbon liquid loading operations must be limited by the
          emission limits specified in this permit, and all other activities, operational
          parameters and numbers of equipment as stated in the registration.
          (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

II.C.6.   Hydrocarbon liquid loading to truck tanks must be conducted by submerged fill.
          (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, III.E)

II.C.7.   For sources not subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B., Section II.C.5., the
          owner or operator must follow loading procedures that minimize the leakage of
          VOCs to the atmosphere including, but not limited to (Reference: Regulation
          Number 3, Part B, III.E)

     II.C.7.a.    Hoses, couplings, and valves must be maintained to prevent dripping,
                  leaking, or other liquid or vapor loss during loading and unloading.

     II.C.7.b.    All compartment hatches (including thief hatches) must be closed and
                  latched at all times when loading operations are not active, except for
                  periods of maintenance, gauging, or safety of personnel and
                  equipment.

     II.C.7.c.    The owner or operator must inspect loading equipment and operations
                  onsite at the time of inspections to monitor compliance with Part II.C.7
                  (a) and (b) above. The inspections must occur at least monthly. Each
                  inspection must be documented in a log available to the Division on
                  request.

II.C.8.   All hydrocarbon liquid loading operations, regardless of size, must be designed,
          operated and maintained so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic
          compounds to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. (Reference:
          Regulation Number 3, Part B, III.E)




                                       Page 8 of 25
II.D.        Statewide Emissions Control Requirements for Storage Tank Hydrocarbon Liquids
             Loadout

   II.D.1.      Owners or operators of well production facilities, natural gas compressor
                stations, and natural gas processing plants with a hydrocarbon liquids loadout
                to transport vehicles throughput of greater than or equal to 5,000 barrels per
                year on a rolling 12-month basis must control emissions from the loadout of
                hydrocarbon liquids from controlled storage tanks to transport vehicles by using
                (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection and return system and/or air
                pollution control equipment. Compliance with this section must be achieved in
                accordance with the following schedule: (Reference: Regulation Number 7,
                Part B, Section II.C.5.a.)

                II.D.1.a.     Facilities constructed or modified on or after May 1, 2020, must
                              be in compliance by commencement of operation.

                II.D.1.b.     Facilities constructed before May 1, 2020, must be in compliance
                              by May 1, 2021.

                II.D.1.c.     Facilities not subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections
                              II.C.5.a.(i)(C) or II.C.5.a.(i)(D) that exceed the hydrocarbon
                              liquids loadout to transport vehicles throughput of greater than or
                              equal to 5,000 barrels per year on a rolling 12-month basis must
                              control emissions from loadout upon exceeding the loadout
                              threshold.

   II.D.2.      Owners or operators of class II disposal well facilities with VOC emissions from
                hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles greater than or equal to two
                (2) tons uncontrolled actual emissions per year on a rolling 12-month basis must
                control emissions from the loadout of hydrocarbon liquids from storage tanks to
                transport vehicles by using (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection and
                return system and/or air pollution control equipment. Compliance with this


                                             Page 9 of 25
             section must be achieved in accordance with the following schedule:
             (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a)

             II.D.2.a.        Class II disposal well facilities constructed or modified on or after
                              January 1, 2021, must be in compliance by commencement of
                              operation.

             II.D.2.b.        Class II disposal well facilities constructed before January 1, 2021,
                              must be in compliance by May 1, 2021.

             II.D.2.c.        Facilities not subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections
                              II.C.5.a.(i)(C) or II.C.5.a.(i)(D) that exceed the hydrocarbon
                              liquids loadout to transport vehicles emissions threshold of
                              greater than or equal to two (2) tons uncontrolled actual VOC
                              emissions per year on a rolling 12-month basis must control
                              emissions from loadout within sixty (60) days of the first day of
                              the month after which loadout emissions exceeded the loadout
                              threshold.

II.D.3.   Storage tanks must operate without venting at all times during loadout.
          Compliance with this section must be achieved in accordance with the schedule
          set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(ii).

III.      Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS)

III.A.    Provided that there are no emission increase and the emission limits set forth in
          Section II.A. and Section II.B. are still met, the owner or operator may invoke an
          AOS for the following changes to an existing loading operation registered under the
          general permit without modifying the general permit registration:

                  •      Replacement of an existing control device by control equipment of the
                         same make, model, and no changes to the configuration that might
                         impact a dispersion analysis.



                                            Page 10 of 25
III.B.   The owner or operator must record in a log the date and description of any change
         made under the provisions of this AOS. This log must be maintained
         contemporaneously with any changes made under the AOS (Reference: Regulation
         Number 3, Part A, Section IV.A.1.)

III.C.   The following changes are not considered modifications. These changes should be
         reflected in any revised APEN required by Condition VIII.C.1.

                 •   Removal of a well serviced by the loadout operation with no increase
                     to permitted emissions rates and no changes to the configuration that
                     might impact a dispersion analysis;

                 •   Re-piping of an existing well with no increase to permitted emissions
                     rates and no changes to the configuration that might impact a
                     dispersion analysis;

                 •   Routine equipment maintenance, repair and replacement, except as
                     otherwise listed in Condition III.A., with no increase to permitted
                     emissions rates and no changes to the configuration that might impact
                     a dispersion analysis.

IV.      Operating and Maintenance Plan

IV.A.    To the maximum extent practicable, all condensate collection, storage,
         processing, and handling operations, regardless of size, must be designed,
         operated, and maintained so as to minimize emissions of volatile organic
         compounds to the atmosphere.

IV.B.    Combustion devices used to control emissions authorized by this permit must be
         enclosed; have no visible emissions during normal operations, as defined under
         Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.A.45; and be designed so that an observer
         can, by means of visual observation from the outside of the combustion device, or
         by other convenient means approved by the Division, determine whether the


                                         Page 11 of 25
        combustion device is operating properly. This combustion device must be equipped
        with an operational auto-igniter according to the schedule in Regulation Number 7,
        Part B, Section II.B.2.d. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections
        II.B.2.b. and II.B.2.d., (effective 02/14/2024)).

IV.C.   If a control device is used to comply with the emission limits in Section II.A. of this
        permit the following conditions must be met:

        IV.C.1.      Control devices must be adequately designed, and operated and
                     maintained according to manufacturer specifications to achieve a
                     control efficiency of at least 95% and to handle reasonably foreseeable
                     fluctuations in emissions of VOCs.

        IV.C.2.      The owner or operator must commence monitoring the pilot light/auto-
                     igniter and visible emissions observation and document the proper
                     operation of the control device based on the monitoring frequency in
                     Table 1.

                     Table 1: Monitoring Frequencies


                 Effective        Classification              Permitted VOC               Monitoring
                 Date of                                      Emissions                   Frequency
                 Registration 1


                 Prior to         Any                         Any                         Weekly
                 Issuance 4




             1
              The Effective Date of Registration is the date that the registration request was granted
             conditional certification per Condition VIII.F.1.




                                            Page 12 of 25
Effective        Classification           Permitted VOC      Monitoring
Date of                                   Emissions          Frequency
Registration 1


On or after      Attainment               Less than 80 TPY   Weekly
Issuance 4


On or after      Attainment               Greater than or    Daily
Issuance 4                                equal to 80 TPY


On or after      Marginal/Moderate        Less than 80 TPY   Weekly
Issuance 4       Ozone Non-
                 Attainment


On or after      Marginal/Moderate        Greater than or    Daily
Issuance 4       Ozone Non-               equal to 80 TPY
                 Attainment


On or after      Serious Ozone Non-       Less than 40 TPY   Weekly
Issuance 4       Attainment


On or after      Serious Ozone Non-       Greater than or    Daily
Issuance 4       Attainment               equal to 40 TPY


On or after      Severe Ozone Non-        Less than 15 TPY   Weekly
Issuance 4       Attainment




                          Page 13 of 25
       Effective           Classification                Permitted VOC                Monitoring
       Date of                                           Emissions                    Frequency
       Registration 1


       On or after         Severe Ozone Non-             Greater than or              Daily
       Issuance 4          Attainment                    equal to 15 TPY


Time intervals for monitoring proper operation of a control device may be
shorter if required under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I or Section II.
Indications of improper operation for a control device include, but are not limited
to, absence of auto-igniter or pilot light, malfunction of electronic ignition,
v a l ve s f o r p i p i n g o f p i lo t ga s o r wa st e ga s t o t h e c o n t r o l d e vi c e n o t
b e i n g o p e n and/or presence of smoke. A check box is suitable for recording
proper operation. Improper operation of a control device must be further
documented with a description of the problem and its resolution, the date range
the control was inoperable, and the volume of liquid loaded during the downtime.
Inspections can be done by either visible observation or other means approved by
the Division. During control device downtime, emissions must be considered to be
uncontrolled.

IV.C.3.     For sources not subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.,
            the owner or operator of a facility at which vapor balancing is used to
            control emissions must:

        IV.C.3.a. Install and operate the vapor collection and return equipment to
                    collect vapors during loading of tank compartments of outbound
                    transport trucks and return these vapors to the stationary source
                    storage tanks.




                                      Page 14 of 25
               IV.C.3.b. Include devices to prevent the release of vapor from vapor
                          recovery hoses not in use.

               IV.C.3.c. Use operating procedures to ensure that hydrocarbon liquid
                          cannot be transferred unless the vapor collection equipment is in
                          use.

               IV.C.3.d. Operate all recovery and disposal equipment at a back pressure
                          less than the pressure relief valve setting of transport vehicles.

               IV.C.3.e. Inspect thief hatch seals annually for integrity and replace as
                          necessary. Thief hatch covers must be weighted and properly
                          seated.

               IV.C.3.f. Inspect pressure relief devices (PRD) annually for proper
                          operation and replace as necessary. PRDs must be set to release
                          at a pressure that will ensure flashing, working and breathing
                          losses are routed to the control device under normal operating
                          conditions.

               IV.C.3.g. Document annual inspections of thief hatch seals and PRD with an
                          indication of status, a description of any problems found, and
                          their resolution.

IV.D.   Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
        II.C.5. must comply with loadout observations and operator training requirements
        in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(iv). Compliance with this section
        must be achieved in accordance with the schedule set forth in Regulation Number
        7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(i).

IV.E.   Air pollution control equipment used to comply with Regulation Number 7, Part B,
        Section II.C.5. are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B., including
        but not limited to visual inspections, performance testing, reporting, and


                                           Page 15 of 25
              recordkeeping requirements. Compliance with this section must be achieved in
              accordance with the schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
              II.C.5.a.(i).

IV.F.         Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
              II.C.5. must comply with the requirements in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
              II.C.5.a.(iii). Compliance with this section must be achieved in accordance with
              the schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a(i).

V.            Recordkeeping and Reporting

V.A.          Records must be maintained on-site or at a local field office with stationary source
              responsibility for Division review. Records may be kept in either electronic format
              or hard copy provided that they can be promptly supplied to the Division upon its
              request. All records must be retained for a period of five years.

V.B.          The following records must be maintained for this emission point covered under
              this general permit:

     V.B.1.      The current issuance of this general construction permit.

     V.B.2.      The most recently submitted APEN.

     V.B.3.      The general permit registration approval letter (once issued).

     V.B.4.      Records that clearly demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of this
                 permit. This must include the most currently available loading throughput
                 records necessary to calculate emissions in accordance with this Condition
                 V.B.4 and documentation of all periods of control device downtime for sources
                 where a control device is required to comply with the emission limits Section
                 II.A. of this permit.

                              •   For sources located at a true minor facility, compliance with the
                                  emission limits in Section II.A and Section II.B. must be


                                               Page 16 of 25
                        determined by calculating the annual emissions from each
                        emission unit for the calendar year.

                    •   For sources located at synthetic minor or major facilities,
                        compliance with the emission limits in Section II.A and Section
                        II.B. must be determined by recording the annual emissions from
                        each emission unit on a rolling 12-month total. By the end of
                        each month a new 12-month total is calculated based on the
                        previous 12 months’ data. During the first year of operation,
                        compliance must be assumed providing that cumulative emissions
                        from all months of operation do not exceed the emission limits in
                        Section II.A.

V.B.5.   Records required by Condition III.B (AOS), as applicable.

V.B.6.   Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
         II.C.5. must retain records for at least two (2) years and make such records
         available to the Division upon request. Compliance with this section must be
         achieved in accordance with the schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7,
         Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(i).

V.B.7.   On or before June 30th of each calendar year, the owner or operator of oil and
         natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural gas
         processing plant or class II disposal well facilities in Colorado must submit a
         single annual report that includes actual emissions and specified information in
         the Division-approved report format. The information included in the annual
         report must be in accordance with the general reporting requirements of
         Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.B. Each calendar year, owners or
         operators must maintain the information according to Regulation Number 7,
         Part B, Section V.C. for inclusion in the annual report. (Reference: Regulation
         Number 7, Part B, Section V).



                                         Page 17 of 25
VI.     Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-Attainment Area

       VI.A.      This Section VI only applies to facilities located in an Ozone Non-
                  Attainment Area. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
                  I.A.1.)

       VI.B.      The owner or operator may be subject to emission control, monitoring,
                  and recordkeeping requirements contained in Regulation Number 7, Part
                  B, Section I.C. and Section I.M.

VII.    Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted
        (DI) Communities

       VII.A.     Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in
                  Disproportionately Impacted Communities must submit a
                  notification at the time of registration for a general permit or
                  permits issued pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                  III.I. indicating the source will comply with the monitoring
                  requirements outlined in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                  III.J., as applicable, by either:

                VII.A.1.    Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to
                            Section III.J.2. of Part B;

                VII.A.2.    Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section
                            III.J.3. of Part B; or

                VII.A.3.    Complying with well production facility monitoring
                            pursuant to Section III.J.4. of Part B.

         Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring methodology
         selected on the general permit registration form.




                                           Page 18 of 25
 VII.B.      Owners or operators subject to VII.A.1 must submit a Division-approved
             source-specific monitoring plan as part of a complete registration request.
             (Regulation Number 3, Part B, III.E.)

VIII.      General Permit Terms and Administration

VIII.A.    A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit
           requirements and is operating under Condition I.A.4 or I.A.5. must submit a Title V
           permit application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general permit into
           a Title V Operating Permit. The due date for this application is one year from the
           date on which the facility becomes subject to Title V Operating Permit
           requirements.

VIII.B.    In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C.5, some or
           all of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be incorporated as
           specific conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit (if applicable).
           Additional monitoring not listed in this general permit may be included in the
           source’s Operating Permit in order to satisfy the periodic monitoring requirements
           of Section V.C.5.b.

VIII.C.    General Terms

    VIII.C.1. A revised APEN must be filed: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A,
               Section II.C.)

          VIII.C.1.a.   Annually by April 30th of the year following a significant increase in
                        emissions as follows:

                 VIII.C.1.a.(i) For VOC, a change in actual emissions of five (5) tons per year or
                                more, above the level reported on the last APEN; or

                 VIII.C.1.a.(ii) For volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides sources in
                                ozone non-attainment areas, a change in annual actual



                                            Page 19 of 25
                             emissions of one ton per year or more or five percent,
                             whichever is greater, above the level reported on the last APEN
                             submitted to the Division; or

           VIII.C.1.a.(iii) For any non-criteria reportable pollutant, if the emissions
                             increase by 50% or five (5) tons per year, whichever is less,
                             above the level reported on the last APEN.

    VIII.C.1.b.   Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any facility,
                  process, or activity; or

    VIII.C.1.c.   As required by the alternative operating scenario allowed by Section
                  III; or,

    VIII.C.1.d.   No later than 30 days before the existing APEN expires.

VIII.C.2. The requirements of Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part D must apply at such
         time that any stationary source or modification becomes a major stationary
         source or major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in any enforceable
         limitation that was established after August 7, 1980, on the capacity of the
         source or modification to otherwise emit a pollutant such as a restriction on
         hours of operation (Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections VI.B.4
         and/or V.A.7.b).

VIII.C.3. Sources covered by this General Permit are subject to the Common Provisions
         Regulation Part II, Subpart E, Upset Conditions and Breakdowns. The owner or
         operator must notify the Division of any upset condition which causes a
         violation of any emission limit or limits stated in this permit as soon as
         possible, but no later than noon of the Division’s next working day, followed by
         written notice to the Division explaining the cause of the occurrence and that
         proper action has been or is being taken to correct the conditions causing said
         violation and to prevent such excess emission in the future.



                                         Page 20 of 25
VIII.C.4. This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado Air
          Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention And
          Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general and specific
          terms and conditions included in this document.

VIII.C.5. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
          contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be necessary
          to assure compliance with the provisions of Section 25-7-114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

VIII.C.6. Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not
          severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the permittee
          will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon such occurrence, this
          permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

VIII.C.7. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all sources required to file an Air
          Pollution Emission Notice (APEN) must pay an annual fee to cover the costs of
          inspections and administration.

VIII.C.8. Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
          Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may result
          in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under Sections 25-7-115
          (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil penalties), -122.1 (criminal
          penalties), C.R.S.

VIII.C.9. Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy and
          completeness of information supplied by the applicant and is conditioned upon
          operation of the source, in accordance with this information and with
          representations made by the applicant or applicant's agents. It is valid only
          for the equipment and operations or activity specifically identified on the
          general permit registration.




                                      Page 21 of 25
VIII.D.   Registration Revision / Termination

   VIII.D.1. The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit under
             the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.

   VIII.D.2. A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner or in a
             new company name by the Division as provided in Regulation Number 3, Part B,
             Section II.B. upon a request for transfer of ownership or company name change
             and the submittal of a revised APEN and the required fees.

   VIII.D.3. Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or operator may
             withdraw or cancel a registration under this general permit at any time by
             notifying the Division in writing.

VIII.E.   General Permit Revision / Termination

   VIII.E.1. This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
             Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3.

   VIII.E.2. After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3, Part B,
             Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in order to add or
             delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This public notice shall be
             conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of Regulation Number 3,
             Part B, Section III.C.4.

   VIII.E.3. If a revised general permit is issued by the Division, any existing registration to
             use the general permit will be automatically converted to a registration to use
             the revised general permit, and the owner or operator is subject to
             requirements of the revised general permit. Persons not wishing to continue
             coverage under the revised general permit shall have the option of applying for
             an individual permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.




                                          Page 22 of 25
   VIII.E.4. If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice to
             affected registrants prior to the termination of the general permit. The notice
             will advise registrants that they must apply for an individual permit as required
             by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

   VIII.E.5. The Division may require any source authorized by a general construction
             permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit if circumstances have
             changed since the time of the original general permit application so that the
             source is no longer appropriately controlled and/or permitted under the
             general construction permit. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
             III.I.3.c.(i)(B)

VIII.F.   General Permit Registration Approval Process

   VIII.F.1. Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective
             from the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated in Condition
             VIII.F.2. A complete registration request consists of all General Permit
             application materials required by the Division and associated fees. The owner
             or operator may commence construction and operation of the hydrocarbon
             liquid loading as represented in the registration once the registration is
             deemed complete. In the event the hydrocarbon liquid loading operation(s)
             does not qualify for registration under the general permit the owner or
             operator accepts the liability of commencing these activities.

   VIII.F.2. The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit registration
             request within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the request and provide
             written notification to the applicant. If the applicant does not receive
             notification of a completeness determination from the Division within sixty (60)
             days, the General Permit registration request will be deemed complete for the
             purpose of Conditions VIII.F.1. and VIII.F.2.




                                         Page 23 of 25
VIII.F.3. The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division receives a
          complete General Permit registration request to provide the applicant with a
          written approval or denial of the registration.

      Permit History


       Issuance      Date             Description


       Issuance 1    17 April 2014    Initial issuance


       Issuance 2    24 January       Revised to address the ozone non-attainment
                     2020             area re-classification from moderate to
                                      serious


       Issuance 3    3 November       Revised to address the 8-hour Ozone Control
                     2022             Area re-classification from serious to severe
                                      for existing registrations


       Issuance 4    This Issuance    Revised to address:

                                      •   Revised to address Northern Weld County
                                          Area re-classification from moderate to
                                          serious for existing registrations,

                                      •   Changes to the structure of AQCC
                                          Regulation Number 7; and

                                      •   New emissions control, reporting,
                                          recordkeeping, performance testing,
                                          training, operating, and monitoring



                                      Page 24 of 25
Issuance   Date   Description

                       requirements from AQCC Regulation
                       Number 7.

                   •   Modification to the AOS provisions

                   •   Updates to Operating and Maintenance
                       requirements

                  •    Addition of facility-wide limits for other
                       criteria pollutants




                  Page 25 of 25
