                    GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                Oil and Gas Industry

                                      Storage Tanks

Permit Number GP08 Issuance 4                                       Final Approval



                                                                    July 23, 2025


Bradley Eades, P.E.                                                 Date Issued


Oil and Gas Permitting Section Supervisor




Table of Contents

   I.     General Permit Applicability ............................................................. 2

   II.    Operating Terms and Conditions ........................................................ 5

   III.   Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS) .................................................. 8

   IV.    Operating and Maintenance Plan ........................................................ 9

   V.     Recordkeeping and Reporting.......................................................... 13




                                              Page 1 of 25
     VI.       Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-Attainment Area15

     VII.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI)
               Communities .......................................................................... 18

      VIII.     General Permit Terms and Administration ........................................... 19




Note: See the Oil and Gas Industry Storage Tank guidance document (PS Memo 14-03) and the
Emission Calculation Manual for further information on definitions, and emission calculation
guidelines.

I.          General Permit Applicability

     I.A.       Definitions

           I.A.1.     “Storage Tank” means any fixed roof storage vessel or series of storage
                      vessels that are manifolded together via liquid line. Storage vessel is as
                      defined in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO and OOOOa – Standards of
                      Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities.

I.B.            Qualified Sources: The owner or operator of any oil and gas industry (exploration
                and production (E&P), non-E&P, midstream and downstream) operation that can
                comply with all of the operating conditions described in Section II of this permit
                and meet all of the requirements in Section I may register for this general permit.
                This general permit covers the following:

           I.B.1.   Storage Tanks, including:

                I.B.1.a. Condensate storage tanks with a design capacity less than or equal to
                        10,000 barrels per storage vessel, used for the storage of condensate;

                I.B.1.b. Crude oil storage tanks with a design capacity less than or equal to 10,000
                        barrels per storage vessel, used for the storage of crude oil;




                                                    Page 2 of 25
       I.B.1.c. Produced water storage tanks used for the storage of produced water; and

       I.B.1.d. Intermediate hydrocarbon liquid storage tanks with a design capacity less
                 than or equal to 10,000 barrels per storage vessel, used for storage of
                 intermediate hydrocarbon liquid.

   I.B.2.    Combustion devices, vapor recovery units, or other Division approved control
             equipment used to reduce emissions below the limits specified in Section II.

   I.B.3.    Equipment as described in condition I.B.1 and I.B.2 located at a true minor
             source or synthetic minor source for Operating Permit (OP), New Source Review
             (NSR), and Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) program
             applicability, except as provided for in I.C., I.D. and I.E. below.

I.C.        Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit
            requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for
            which a complete GP08 registration request was received by the Division prior to
            the effective date (January 27, 2020) on which the 8-hour Ozone Control Area
            was re-classified from moderate to serious may continue to operate under this
            General Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number
            7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.D.        Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
            requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source due to
            the reclassification of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to severe, and
            b) for which a complete GP08 registration request was received by the Division
            prior to the effective date of GP08, Issuance 3 (November 3, 2022), may
            continue to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as
            defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023,
            Effective 02/14/2024).

I.E.        Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit
            requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for




                                          Page 3 of 25
            which a GP08 registration request was deemed complete by the Division prior to
            the effective date (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County was re-
            classified from moderate to serious may continue to operate under this General
            Permit. Northern Weld County is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A,
            Section II.A.3. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.F.        This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in Section I.A.
            above having uncontrolled actual emissions of Sulfur Oxides (SOx), Particulate
            Matter (PM), Particulate Matter 2.5 (PM2.5), and Particulate Matter 10 (PM10)
            less than the APEN reporting thresholds for each pollutant in Regulation Number
            3, Part A, Section II.D.1.a.

I.G.        Excluded Sources: The following sources may not register for this general
            permit:

   I.G.1. Equipment subject to a New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) other than
             NSPS Subpart OOOOb – Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas
             Facilities.

   I.G.2. This general permit applies only to the equipment as described in Section I.B
             above. Other equipment at the same stationary source must be permitted
             separately as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

   I.G.3. Newly constructed or modified existing equipment that is part of a project
             permit action that is subject to Non-Attainment New Source Review (NA NSR)
             or Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permitting under Regulation
             Number 3, Part D.

   I.G.4.      On or after the issuance date of Issuance 4 of this general permit, new dual
               product storage tanks containing commingled condensate and produced
               water, cannot register for this general permit. A new dual product storage
               tank is a storage tank that is not registered to GP08 prior to Issuance 4 of
               this general permit.




                                           Page 4 of 25
II.           Operating Terms and Conditions

      II.A.        Emission Limitations Specific to Tanks Registered Under This General Permit

         II.A.1. Maximum allowable controlled emissions of the following air pollutants from
                    each condensate, crude oil, produced water, or intermediate hydrocarbon
                    liquid storage tank, registered under this general permit, must not exceed the
                    following limitation: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

                          Volatile Organic Compounds:                 5.9 tons per year

         II.A.2. For new or modified registrations deemed complete on or after the effective
                    date of this permit issuance (Issuance 4), the maximum allowable emissions of
                    nitrogen oxides (NOx) and carbon monoxide (CO) from all tank batteries and
                    control of emissions from all tank batteries under the GP08 registration that
                    are owned and operated by the same person and co-located at the same
                    stationary source must not exceed the requested annual emission limitations
                    (tons per year) as listed on the general permit registration approval letter, or if
                    an approval letter has not been issued, as certified by the owner or operator in
                    the APEN included with the general permit registration APEN (Regulation
                    Number 3, Part B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

      II.B.        Facility-Wide Emission Limitation Requirements

        II.B.1.      The owner or operator not subject to Conditions I.C. or I.D. or I.E. of this
                     permit must track potential emissions from all insignificant activities at the
                     facility on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance with the facility
                     emission limitations indicated below. An inventory of each insignificant
                     activity and associated emission calculations must be made available to the
                     Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes of this condition,
                     insignificant activities are defined as any activity or equipment, which emits
                     any amount of a regulated pollutant but does not require an APEN or is permit
                     exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing nonattainment area, the




                                                 Page 5 of 25
limit applies for the existing classification until the effective date of
reclassification. (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)

        II.B.1.a   Facilities located in an area classified as attainment,
                   marginal nonattainment, or moderate nonattainment for all
                   pollutants, total potential point source emissions from the
                   facility, including all permitted emissions and potential to
                   emit from all insignificant activities, must be less than:

                   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):          100 tons per year

                   Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                     100 tons per year

                   Carbon Monoxide (CO):                      100 tons per year

        II.B.1.b   Facilities located in an area classified as serious
                   nonattainment for ozone, total potential point source
                   emissions from the facility, including all permitted
                   emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
                   activities, must be less than:

                   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):          50 tons per year

                   Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                     50 tons per year

                   Carbon Monoxide (CO):                      100 tons per year

        II.B.1.c   Facilities located in an area classified as severe
                   nonattainment for ozone, total potential point source
                   emissions from the facility, including all permitted
                   emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
                   activities, must be less than:

                   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):          25 tons per year




                            Page 6 of 25
                                       Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                 25 tons per year

                                       Carbon Monoxide (CO):                  100 tons per year

        II.B.2.    Combined maximum allowable controlled emissions of hazardous air
                   pollutants (HAPs) from all equipment at the same stationary source must not
                   exceed the following limitations (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B,
                   Section II.A.4.):

                      Each Individual HAP:                                    8.0 tons per year

                      Total of all HAPs:                                      20.0 tons per year

        II.B.3.   A control device may be used to comply with these emission limits.

II.C.         Emissions Control Requirements for Storage Tanks

        II.C.1.    Condensate, Crude Oil, and Produced Water Storage Tanks

            II.C.1.a The owner or operator may be subject to emission control, auto igniter,
                      operate without venting, storage tank emissions management (STEM) plan,
                      performance testing, metering, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements
                      contained in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B and Section II.C.

II.D.         General Operating Conditions

         II.D.1. This source is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number 2.

        II.D.2.    The ten digit AIRS ID number assigned by the Division (e.g., 123/1234/001)
                   must be marked on the subject equipment for ease of identification. The
                   permit number (i.e. GP08) must be marked on equipment newly registered
                   and deemed complete on or after the issuance date of Issuance 4 of this
                   general permit (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)




                                              Page 7 of 25
       II.D.3.      The owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements in Regulation
                    Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of
                    Regulation Number 1.

       II.D.4.      The owner or operator must follow the Operating and Maintenance /
                    Recordkeeping and Reporting specified in Sections IV and V. (Reference:
                    Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.6.)

       II.D.5.      This source's condensate, crude oil, produced water and intermediate
                    hydrocarbon liquid throughput must be limited by the emission limits
                    specified in this permit, and all other activities, operational parameters and
                    numbers of equipment as stated in the registration. (Reference: Regulation
                    Number 3, Part B, Section II.A.4.)

III.      Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS)

 III.A.          Provided that there are no emissions increases, and the emission limits set forth
                 in Section II.A and Section II.B. are still met, the owner or operator may invoke
                 an AOS for the following changes to an existing storage tank registered under this
                 general permit without modifying the general permit registration:

                     •   Replacement of an existing control device by control equipment of the
                         same make, model, and no changes to the configuration that will impact
                         a dispersion analysis; or

                     •   Replacement of a storage vessel with another storage vessel of the same
                         type, dimensions, and physical characteristics (e.g., same design, same
                         color, same construction material) and no changes to the configuration
                         that will impact a dispersion analysis; or

                     •   Replacement of a separator with another separator of the same type,
                         dimensions, and physical characteristics (e.g., same design) with no
                         changes to the configuration that will impact a dispersion analysis.




                                                Page 8 of 25
III.B.       The owner or operator must maintain a log to contemporaneously record the date
             and description of any change made under the provisions of this AOS. (Reference:
             Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IV.A.1.)

III.C.       The following changes are not considered modifications. These changes should be
             reflected in any revised APEN required by Condition VIII.C.1.

                   •   Removal of a well serviced by the storage tank with no increase to
                       permitted emission rates and no changes to the configuration that will
                       impact a dispersion analysis;

                   •   Re-piping of an existing well with no increase to permitted emission
                       rates and no changes to the configuration that will impact a dispersion
                       analysis;

                   •   Routine equipment maintenance, repair and replacement, except as
                       otherwise listed in Condition III.A., with no increase to permitted
                       emissions rates and no changes to the configuration that will impact a
                       dispersion analysis.

IV.       Operating and Maintenance Plan

 IV.A.        If a control device is used to comply with the emission limits in Section II.A. of
              this permit the following conditions must be met:

         IV.A.1. Control devices must be adequately designed, operated and maintained
                according to manufacturer specifications to achieve a control efficiency of at
                least 95%, and to handle reasonably foreseeable fluctuations in emissions of
                VOCs. Fluctuations in emissions that occur when the separator dumps into the
                storage tank are reasonably foreseeable.

         IV.A.2. Combustion devices operated to control emissions authorized by this permit
                must be enclosed; have no visible emissions during normal operations, as




                                              Page 9 of 25
       defined under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.A.45.; and be designed
       so that an observer can, by means of visual observation from the outside of
       the combustion device, or by other convenient means approved by the
       Division, determine whether the combustion device is operating properly. This
       combustion device must be equipped with an operational auto-igniter
       according to the schedule in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B.2.d.
       (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections II.B.2.b. and II.B.2.d.,
       effective 02/14/2024)

IV.A.3. For all new and modified storage tanks controlled by a combustion device,
       auto-igniters must be installed and operational, beginning on the date of first
       production for E&P locations and upon commencement of storage tank
       operation for non-E&P locations after any new storage tank installation or
       storage tank modification.

IV.A.4. If a boiler or process heater is used as a control device, the storage tank vent
       stream must be introduced with the primary fuel or used as the primary fuel.
       In addition, the boiler or process heater must be equipped with and operate a
       continuous burning pilot flame.

IV.A.5. For each control device, owner or operator must keep a maintenance log on
       site (at the field office). The log must display the date, time, and nature of
       each maintenance activity. Maintenance log may also be located at a local
       office or electronically, and made available upon request.

IV.A.6. Owners and operators of storage tanks covered by this permit must route all
       VOC emissions to air pollution control equipment and must operate without
       venting VOC emissions from the thief hatch (or other access point to the tank)
       or pressure relief device during normal operations unless venting is reasonably
       required for maintenance, gauging or safety of personnel or equipment.




                                    Page 10 of 25
IV.B.       All condensate, crude oil, produced water, or intermediate hydrocarbon liquid
            collection, storage, processing and handling operations, regardless of size, must be
            designed, operated and maintained so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic
            compounds to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable.

        IV.B.1. If a control device is used to comply with the emission limits in Section II.A.
                  and Section II.B. of this permit, leakage of VOCs to the atmosphere must be
                  minimized as follows:

            IV.B.1.a. Thief hatch seals must be inspected for integrity at least annually, or
                      otherwise specified in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C., and
                      replaced as necessary. Thief hatch covers must be weighted and
                      properly sealed.

            IV.B.1.b. Pressure relief valves (PRV) must be inspected for proper operation at
                      least annually, or as otherwise specified in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                      Section II.C., and replaced as necessary. PRVs must be set to release at
                      a pressure that will ensure flashing, working, and breathing losses are
                      routed to the control device under normal operating conditions.

            IV.B.1.c. Inspections of thief hatches and PRVs must be documented with an
                      indication of status, a description of any problems found, and their
                      resolution.

IV.C.       The owner or operator must commence monitoring the pilot light/auto-igniter and
            visible emissions observation and document the proper operation of the control
            device based on the monitoring frequency in Table 1.

                      Table 1: Monitoring Frequencies




                                            Page 11 of 25
                   Effective         Classification                Permitted VOC               Monitoring
                   Date of                                         Emissions                   Frequency
                   Registration 1


                   Prior to          Any                           Any                         Weekly
                   Issuance 4


                   On or after       Attainment                    Less than 80 TPY            Weekly
                   Issuance 4


                   On or after       Attainment                    Greater than or             Daily
                   Issuance 4                                      equal to 80 TPY


                   On or after       Marginal/Moderate             Less than 80 TPY            Weekly
                   Issuance 4        Ozone Non-
                                     Attainment


                   On or after       Marginal/Moderate             Greater than or             Daily
                   Issuance 4        Ozone Non-                    equal to 80 TPY
                                     Attainment


                   On or after       Serious Ozone Non-            Less than 40 TPY            Weekly
                   Issuance 4        Attainment


                   On or after       Serious Ozone Non-            Greater than or             Daily



1
 The Effective Date of Registration is the date that the registration request was granted conditional
certification per Condition VIII.F.1.




                                                 Page 12 of 25
                 Effective           Classification                Permitted VOC                Monitoring
                 Date of                                           Emissions                    Frequency
                 Registration 1

                 Issuance 4          Attainment                    equal to 40 TPY


                 On or after         Severe Ozone Non-             Less than 15 TPY             Weekly
                 Issuance 4          Attainment


                 On or after         Severe Ozone Non-             Greater than or              Daily
                 Issuance 4          Attainment                    equal to 15 TPY


          Time intervals for monitoring proper operation of a control device may be
          shorter if required under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I or Section II.
          Indications of improper operation for a control device include, but are not limited
          to, absence of auto-igniter or pilot light, malfunction of electronic ignition,
          v a l ve s f o r p i p i n g o f p i lo t ga s o r wa st e ga s t o t h e c o n t r o l d e vi c e n o t
          b e i n g o p e n and/or presence of smoke. A check box is suitable for recording
          proper operation. Improper operation of a control device must be further
          documented with a description of the problem and its resolution, the date range
          the control was inoperable, and the production through the battery during the
          downtime. Inspections can be done by either visible observation or other means
          approved by the Division. During control device downtime, emissions must be
          considered to be uncontrolled.

V.      Recordkeeping and Reporting

 V.A.       Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy provided that they
            can be promptly supplied to the Division upon request. All records must be
            retained for a period of five years.




                                                Page 13 of 25
V.B.    For storage tanks, the following records must be maintained on site or at a local
        field office with site responsibility for Division review:

  V.B.1.    The current issuance of this general construction permit.

   V.B.2.   The most recently submitted APEN and any associated site-specific emission
            factor documentation.

  V.B.3.    The general permit registration approval letter (once issued).

  V.B.4.    Records of installation dates for each individual storage vessel installed.

   V.B.5.   Records that clearly demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of this
            permit. This must include the most current condensate, crude oil, produced
            water and intermediate hydrocarbon liquid production records necessary to
            calculate emissions in accordance with this Condition V.B.5 and documentation
            of all periods of control device downtime for sources where a control device is
            required to comply with the emission limits of Section II.A. of this permit.

                     V.B.5.a    For sources located at a true minor facility, compliance
                                with the emission limits in Section II.A and Section II.B.
                                must be determined by calculating the annual emissions
                                from each storage tank for the calendar year.

                     V.B.5.b    For sources located at a synthetic minor or major facilities,
                                compliance with the emission limits in Section II.A and
                                Section II.B. must be determined by recording the annual
                                emissions from each storage tank on a rolling 12-month
                                total. By the end of each month a new 12-month total is
                                calculated based on the previous twelve months’ data.
                                During the first year of operation, compliance must be
                                assumed providing that cumulative emissions from all




                                        Page 14 of 25
                                    months of operation do not exceed the emission limits in
                                    Section II.A.

      V.B.6. Records required by Conditions III.B (AOS), IV.B.1.c (Storage tank inspections)
                    and IV.C (Control device monitoring).

      V.B.7. On or before June 30th of each calendar year, the owner or operator of oil and
               natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural gas
               processing plant or class II disposal well facilities in Colorado must submit a
               single annual report that includes actual emissions and specified information in
               the Division-approved report format. The information included in the annual
               report must be in accordance with the general reporting requirements of
               Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.B. Each calendar year owners or
               operators must maintain the information according to Regulation Number 7,
               Part B, Section V.C. for inclusion in the annual report. (Reference: Regulation
               Number 7, Part B, Section V)

VI.      Additional Requirements for Sources located in an Ozone Non-Attainment Area

 VI.A.       This Section VI only applies to facilities located in an Ozone Non-Attainment
             Area. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.A.1.)

 VI.B.       The owner or operator may be subject to emission control, monitoring,
             performance testing, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements contained in
             Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.C., Section I.D., Section I.E. and Section
             I.F.

 VI.C.       Control devices used to comply with Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.D.3.
             and II.D.2. must be a combustion device or a vapor recovery unit and must meet
             all requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.C.1 and II.B.2.
             Alternative control equipment must be approved via an individual permit as
             required by Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.D.4 or II.B.2.e.




                                            Page 15 of 25
VI.D.   At the frequency specified in Table 2, the owner or operator of storage tanks
        utilizing site-specific emission factors must complete site-specific sampling as
        necessary to develop site-specific emission factors. Periodic site-specific
        sampling must be conducted at a minimum of one hundred and eighty (180) days
        apart. Sampling and analysis must be in accordance with Division approved
        methods and, where flash is expected, the sample must be obtained from the
        outlet of separation equipment immediately prior to the storage tank, where
        technically feasible. Results of the analysis must be used to calculate site-
        specific emissions factors for VOC (in units of lb/bbl hydrocarbon liquid
        throughput) using Division approved methods. The total calculated emission
        factors must include all flash, working, and breathing emissions. Results of the
        analysis must be used to demonstrate that the VOC emission factor established
        through the analysis is less than or equal to, the emission factor submitted with
        the GP08 registration and established on the APEN for this emissions point. If the
        VOC site-specific emission factor developed through this analysis is greater than
        the emission factor submitted with the GP08 registration and established on the
        most recently submitted APEN for this emissions point, the operator must submit
        to the Division within 90 days, or in a timeframe as agreed to by the Division, a
        modification to address this inaccuracy. Records of periodic site-specific
        sampling must be maintained by the owner or operator for a minimum of five (5)
        years and made available to the Division for inspection upon request.

                Table 2: Sampling Frequencies




                                      Page 16 of 25
                    Effective           Classification             Permitted VOC                Frequency
                    Date of                                        Emissions
                    Registration 2


                    Prior to            Any                        Any                          Every 5 years
                    Issuance 4


                    On or after         Marginal/Moderate          Less than 90 TPY             Every 5 years
                    Issuance 4          Ozone Non-
                                        Attainment


                    On or after         Marginal/Moderate          Greater than or              Annually
                    Issuance 4          Ozone Non-                 equal to 90 TPY
                                        Attainment


                    On or after         Serious Ozone Non-         Less than 40 TPY             Every 5 years
                    Issuance 4          Attainment


                    On or after         Serious Ozone Non-         Greater than or              Annually
                    Issuance 4          Attainment                 equal to 40 TPY


                    On or after         Severe Ozone Non-          Less than 15 TPY             Every 5 years
                    Issuance 4          Attainment


                    On or after         Severe Ozone Non-          Greater than or              Annually



2 The Effective Date of Registration is the date that the registration request was granted conditional

certification per Condition VIII.F.1.




                                                 Page 17 of 25
            Effective         Classification            Permitted VOC         Frequency
            Date of                                     Emissions
            Registration 2

            Issuance 4        Attainment                equal to 15 TPY


VII.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately
         Impacted (DI) Communities

VII.A.   Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in
         Disproportionately Impacted Communities must submit a notification at
         the time of registration for a general permit or permits issued pursuant to
         Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I. indicating the source will
         comply with the monitoring requirements outlined in Regulation Number
         3, Part B, Section III.J., as applicable, by either:

           VII.A.1.   Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to
                      Section III.J.2. of Part B;

           VII.A.2.   Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section III.J.3.
                      of Part B; or

           VII.A.3.   Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant
                      to Section III.J.4. of Part B.

                      Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring
                      methodology selected on the general permit registration
                      form.

VII.B.   Owners or operators subject to VII.A.1 must submit a Division-approved
         source-specific monitoring plan as part of a complete registration
         request. (Regulation Number 3, Part B, III.E.)




                                        Page 18 of 25
VIII.       General Permit Terms and Administration

  VIII.A.     A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit
              requirements and is operating under Condition I.C. or I.D. must submit a Title V
              permit application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general permit
              into a Title V Operating Permit. The due date for this application is one year
              from the date on which the facility becomes subject to Title V Operating Permit
              requirements.

  VIII.B.     In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C.5, some
              or all of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be incorporated as
              specific conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit (if applicable).
              Additional monitoring not listed in this general permit may be included in the
              source’s Operating Permit in order to satisfy the periodic monitoring
              requirements of Section V.C.5.b.

  VIII.C.     General Terms

        VIII.C.1. A revised APEN must be filed: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                 Section II.C.)

            VIII.C.1.a. Annually by April 30th of the year following a significant increase in
                    emissions as follows:

               VIII.C.1.a.(i) For VOC, a change in actual emissions of five (5) tons per year or
                          more, above the level reported on the last APEN; or

               VIII.C.1.a.(ii) For volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides sources in
                          ozone non-attainment areas, a change in annual actual emissions of
                          one ton per year or more or five percent, whichever is greater, above
                          the level reported on the last APEN submitted to the Division; or




                                            Page 19 of 25
        VIII.C.1.a.(iii) For any non-criteria reportable pollutant, if the emissions
                  increase by 50% or five (5) tons per year, whichever is less, above the
                  level reported on the last APEN.

    VIII.C.1.b. Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any facility,
             process, or activity; or

    VIII.C.1.c. As required by the alternative operating scenario allowed by Section III.

    VIII.C.1.d. No later than 30 days before the existing APEN expires.

VIII.C.2. The requirements of Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part D must apply at such
        time that any stationary source or modification becomes a major stationary
        source or major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in any enforceable
        limitation that was established after August 7, 1980, on the capacity of the
        source or modification to otherwise emit a pollutant such as a restriction on
        hours of operation (Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections VI.B.4
        and/or V.A.7.b).

VIII.C.3. Sources covered by this General Permit are subject to the Common Provisions,
        Regulation Part II, Subpart E, Affirmative Defense Provision for Excess Emissions
        During Malfunctions. The owner or operator must notify the Division of any
        upset condition which causes a violation of any emission limit or limits
        stated in this permit as soon as possible, but no later than noon of the next
        working day, followed by written notice to the Division explaining the cause of
        the occurrence and that proper action has been or is being taken to correct the
        conditions causing said violation and to prevent such excess emission in the
        future.

VIII.C.4. This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado Air
        Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention And
        Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general and specific
        terms and conditions included in this document.




                                     Page 20 of 25
   VIII.C.5. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
           contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be necessary
           to assure compliance with the provisions of Section 25-7-114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

   VIII.C.6. Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not
           severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the permittee
           will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon such occurrence, this
           permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

   VIII.C.7. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all sources required to file an
           APEN must pay an annual fee to cover the costs of inspections and
           administration.

   VIII.C.8. Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
           Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may result
           in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under Sections 25-7-115
           (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil penalties), -122.1 (criminal
           penalties), C.R.S.

    VIII.C.9. Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy
           and completeness of information supplied by the applicant and is conditioned
           upon operation of the source in accordance with this information and with
           representations made by the applicant or applicant's agents. It is valid only
           for the equipment and operations or activity specifically identified on the
           general permit registration.

VIII.D.   Registration Revision / Termination

    VIII.D.1. The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit under
           the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.

    VIII.D.2. A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner or in
           a new company name by the Division as provided in Regulation Number 3, Part




                                       Page 21 of 25
           B, Section II.B. upon a request for transfer of ownership or company name
           change and the submittal of a revised APEN and the required fees.

    VIII.D.3. Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or operator
           may withdraw or cancel a registration under this general permit at any time by
           notifying the Division in writing.

VIII.E.   General Permit Revision / Termination

    VIII.E.1. This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
           Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3.

    VIII.E.2. After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3, Part B,
           Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in order to add or
           delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This public notice must be
           conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of Regulation Number 3,
           Part B, Section III.C.4.

    VIII.E.3. If a revised general permit is issued by the Division, any existing registration to
           use the general permit will be automatically converted to a registration to use
           the revised general permit, and the owner or operator is subject to
           requirements of the revised general permit. Persons not wishing to continue
           coverage under the revised general permit have the option of applying for an
           individual permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

    VIII.E.4. If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice to
           affected registrants prior to the termination of the general permit. The notice
           will advise registrants that they must apply for an individual permit as required
           by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

    VIII.E.5. The Division may require any source authorized by a general construction
           permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit if circumstances have
           changed since the time of the original general permit application so that the




                                         Page 22 of 25
               source is no longer appropriately controlled and/or permitted under the
               general construction permit. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
               III.I.3.c.(i)(B)

  VIII.F.     General Permit Registration Approval Process

      VIII.F.1. Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective
               from the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated in Condition
               VIII.F.2. A complete registration request consists of all General Permit
               application materials required by the Division and associated fees. The owner
               or operator may commence construction and operation of the storage tank as
               represented in the registration once the registration is deemed complete. In
               the event the storage tank does not qualify for registration under the general
               permit the owner or operator accepts the liability of commencing these
               activities.

      VIII.F.2. The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit registration
               request within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the request and provide
               written notification to the applicant. If the applicant does not receive
               notification of a completeness determination from the Division within sixty (60)
               days, the General Permit registration request will be deemed complete for the
               purpose of Condition VIII.F.1.

      VIII.F.3. The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division receives
               a complete General Permit registration request to provide the applicant with a
               written approval or denial of the registration.

IX.         Additional Requirements

 IX.A.       Condensate storage tanks subject to 40 CFR Part 60, NSPS Subpart OOOOb -
             Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities must comply
             with all applicable requirements of that subpart including, but not limited to,




                                           Page 23 of 25
             emissions standards, testing, notification, monitoring, recordkeeping and
             reporting.

 IX.B.       The owner or operator must maintain documentation clearly outlining applicable
             requirements of New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) Subpart OOOOb -
             Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for the
             condensate storage tank battery registered under this general permit. The
             documentation must be located on-site or at a local field office with stationary
             source responsibility. Records may be kept in either electronic or hard copy
             format provided that they can be promptly supplied to the APCD upon request.




Permit History


Issuance       Date             Description


Issuance 1     8 August 2014    Initial issuance


Issuance 2     24 January       Revised to address the Denver ozone
               2020             nonattainment area re-classification from
                                moderate to serious


Issuance 3     3 November       Revised to address the 8-hour Ozone Control
               2022             Area re-classification from serious to severe
                                for existing registrations


Issuance 4     This Issuance    Revised to address:




                                          Page 24 of 25
Issuance   Date   Description

                  •   Revised to address Northern Weld County
                      Area re-classification from moderate to
                      serious for existing registrations,

                  •   Changes to the structure of AQCC
                      Regulation Number 7; and

                  •   New emissions control, reporting,
                      recordkeeping, performance testing,
                      training, operating, and monitoring
                      requirements from AQCC Regulation
                      Number 7.

                  •   Modification to the AOS provisions

                  •   Updates to Operating and Maintenance
                      requirements

                  •   Addition of facility-wide limits for other
                      criteria pollutants




                            Page 25 of 25
