                 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                   Oil and Gas

                       Well Production Facilities

Permit Number GP10 Issuance 4                              Final Approval



                                                           July 23, 2025


Bradley Eades, PE                                          Date Issued


Oil and Gas Section Permitting Supervisor


Permit History


 Issuance           Date               Description


 Issuance 1         October 11, 2019   Initial issuance


 Issuance 2         February 11,       Including Addition of routine or predictable gas
                                       venting emissions. Updating regulation citations.



                                       Page 1 of 54
Issuance     Date            Description

             2021            Revision to condition V.A.3.


Issuance 3   November 2,     Revised to address:
             2022
                             The 8-hour Ozone Control Area re-classification
                             from serious to severe for existing registrations.


Issuance 4   This Issuance   Revised to address:

                             Revised to address Northern Weld County Area re-
                             classification from moderate to serious for existing
                             registrations,

                             Changes to the structure of AQCC Regulation
                             Number 7 and Number 26; and

                             New emissions control, reporting, recordkeeping,
                             training, operating, and monitoring requirements
                             from AQCC Regulations Number 7 and Number 26.

                             Removed and expired provisions in Regulation
                             Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.2.a regarding
                             deferred APEN and permitting requirements.

                             New requirements applicable to engines with rating
                             greater than or equal to 1000 hp.




                             Page 2 of 54
         Table of Contents

I.       General Permit Applicability                                                    5
II.      General Operating Conditions                                                   12
III.     Annual Emission Limitation Requirements                                        13
      III.A. Equipment Specific Emission Limitations                                    13
      III.B. Facility-Wide Emission Limitations                                         14
IV.      Other Emission Limitations and Operation and Maintenance Requirements          16
      IV.A. Facility-Wide Requirements                                                  16
      IV.B. Natural Gas Fired Engine Requirements                                       19
      IV.C. Storage Tank Requirements                                                   25
      IV.D. Hydrocarbon Loadout Requirements                                            27
      IV.E. Separator Venting Requirements                                              29
      IV.F. Fugitive Component Leak Emissions Requirements                              30
      IV.G. Natural Gas-Driven Diaphragm Pneumatic Pumps Requirements                   30
      IV.H. Natural Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controllers Requirements                       35
      IV.I. Natural Gas Fired Turbine Requirements                                      35
      IV.J. Routine or Predictable Gas Venting Emissions Requirements                   36
V.       Testing and Monitoring Requirements                                            40
VI.      Emission and Process Recordkeeping Requirements                                45
VII.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI)
         Communities                                                                    48
VIII. General Permit Registration Approval Process and Expiration                       49
IX.      General Permit Terms and Administration                                        50
      IX.C. General Terms                                                               50
      IX.D. Registration Revision/Termination                                           52
      IX.E. General Permit Revision/Termination                                         53




                                                    Page 3 of 54
Note: See PS Memos and the Emission Calculation Manual for further information on
definitions, and emission calculation.

This permit is granted by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air
Pollution Control Division subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado Air Quality
Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act C.R.S.,
sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general terms and conditions included in this permit and
the following specific terms and conditions:




                                          Page 4 of 54
I.     General Permit Applicability

I.A.   This general permit may be used only for oil and gas well production facilities as
       defined in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.A. Equipment covered by this
       permit is limited to the following sources:

       I.A.1.    Natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines

       I.A.2.    Storage tanks used to store condensate, crude oil, intermediate
                 hydrocarbon liquids, or produced water

       I.A.3.    Hydrocarbon liquid loading from storage tanks to transport trucks

       I.A.4.    Gas venting from separators

       I.A.5.    Fugitive component leak emissions

       I.A.6.    Natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers

       I.A.7.    Natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps

       I.A.8.    Natural gas-fired turbines

       I.A.9.    Included emission activities: The following emitting activities may register
                 for this general permit:

                 I.A.9.a.   Fixed roof storage tank-related routine or predictable gas venting
                            emissions events that are not separately permitted:

                                  releasing emissions from a fixed-roof storage tank through
                                   a storage tank thief hatch, blowdown valve, venting point,
                                   or other access point for any routine or predictable



                                            Page 5 of 54
                  activity, including for liquid level measurement, sampling,
                  truck loadout, well unloading, equipment maintenance,
                  repair, decommissioning, or other routine or predictable
                  activity; and

                 tank hot oil treatments or other tank cleaning activities.

I.A.9.b.   Well-related routine or predictable gas venting emissions events
           that are not separately permitted, including but not limited to:

                 well liquids unloading;

                 downhole well maintenance, including well workovers,
                  recompletion, restimulation, reperforating, paraffin/scale
                  removal, swabbing, and installation of artificial lift;

                 well equipment maintenance at the surface;

                 well plugging;

                 bradenhead gas venting;

                 casinghead gas venting; and

                 other well-related routine or predictable gas venting
                  emissions activities.

I.A.9.c.   Pigging-related routine or predictable gas venting emissions that
           are not separately permitted, including, but not limited to:

                 pig launchers; and




                          Page 6 of 54
                 pig receivers.

I.A.9.d.   Routine or predictable blowdowns of facility equipment or piping
           that are not separately permitted, including but not limited to:

                 pipeline venting within the facility boundary when such
                  venting is routine or predictable;

                 compressor and turbine blowdowns;

                 scrubber and strainer blowdowns;

                 blowdowns resulting from facility-wide (plant) and/or
                  equipment shutdowns;

                 blowdown of all other equipment (including pipelines,
                  compressor case or cylinders, manifolds, suction bottles,
                  discharge bottles, and vessels); and

                 desiccant dehydration unit blowdowns.

                  I.A.9.d.(i) Emissions resulting from blowdowns from facility
                            equipment or piping where the physical volume
                            between isolation valves is less than 50 cubic feet
                            are not required to be reported or permitted
                            with this category.

I.A.9.e.   This category DOES NOT include:

                 Emissions at a storage tank that are not listed in Section
                  I.A.9.a. of this general permit.



                          Page 7 of 54
                                  Venting emissions from a storage tank that are prohibited
                                   by Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.2.a.

       I.A.10.   Combustion devices, vapor recovery units, catalysts, or other Division-
                 approved air pollution control equipment used to reduce emissions (from
                 the emitting activities registered under this general permit) below the
                 limits specified in Section III.

I.B.   The owner or operator of any oil and gas well production facility that can comply with
       all of the conditions described in this permit and meet all of the requirements in this
       Section I may register for this general permit.

I.C.   This general permit applies only to the well production facility and the equipment
       described in Section I.A for which the operator has registered under this general
       permit in the application materials submitted to the Division.

I.D.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements
       or became classified as an existing major stationary source due to the reclassification
       of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to severe, and b) for which a complete
       GP10 registration request was received by the Division prior to the effective date of
       GP10, Issuance3 (November 3, 2022), may continue to operate under this General
       Permit. 8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A,
       Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

I.E.   Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements
       or became classified as an existing major stationary source for which a complete GP10
       registration request was deemed complete by the Division prior to the effective date
       (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County was re-classified from moderate to
       serious may continue to operate under this General Permit. Northern Weld County is



                                            Page 8 of 54
       as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.3. (Adopted 12/14/2023,
       Effective 02/14/2024).

I.F.   This general permit may not be used for new major stationary source well production
       facilities or modifications at existing major stationary source well production facilities
       that are subject to Regulation Number 3, Part D Prevention of Significant
       Deterioration (PSD) or Nonattainment New Source Review (NA NSR).

I.G.   The owner or operator of the well production facility registered under this general
       permit must file emission source specific Air Pollutant Emission Notices (APENs) with
       the Division, as follows, for each emissions unit requiring an APEN according to the
       requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.B.3.:

       I.G.1.    No later than ninety (90) days following the commencement of operation of
                 a new well production facility registered under this permit. For the purpose
                 of this condition, commencement of operation is defined as “the date
                 permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
                 flowing to sales lines, gathering lines or storage tanks from the first
                 producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
                 completion operations (including flowback).” (Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                 Section I.B.15.).

       I.G.2.    No later than ninety (90) days following start-up of any newly registered
                 emission units located at a facility with existing sources, as defined in
                 Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.20.

I.H.   Operators must use the current Air Pollution Emission Notice forms in accordance with
       the Source Grouping requirements in Regulation Number 3, Part A, and Section II.B.4.
       (Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.E). Registration under this general permit



                                           Page 9 of 54
cannot be used to provide enforceable limitations after registration expires.
(Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)

I.H.1.    Registration under this general permit expires at the earliest of the
          following:

          I.H.1.a.     Eighteen (18) months after the GP10 registration request is
                       deemed complete; or

          I.H.1.b.     After issuance of all general permits and/or individual
                       construction permits for those emission points covered under this
                       general permit that are required to obtain a permit pursuant to
                       Regulation Number 3, Parts A and B; or

          I.H.1.c.     Six (6) months after the GP10 registration request is deemed
                       complete if the owner or operator has not commenced
                       construction of the stationary source. (Reference: Regulation
                       Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.11)

I.H.2.    For emission points not yet covered by a permit issued by the Division other
          than this general permit, requirements for those emission points contained
          in this general permit continue to apply until:

          I.H.2.a.     the date of issuance of an emission source specific construction
                       permit, or

          I.H.2.b.     the date of approval by the Division of a complete emission point
                       specific general permit registration request, or




                                     Page 10 of 54
                 I.H.2.c.    expiration of the registration under this general permit as defined
                             above.

       I.H.3.    The Division may grant extensions upon request of the owner or operator.
                 The owner or operator must request an extension prior to the expiration of
                 the general permit registration. If an extension has been requested but not
                 yet granted by the Division at the time of expiration, registration under this
                 general permit will be extended until such time as the Division denies the
                 extension request or until the revised expiration date granted by the
                 Division.

I.I.   The owner or operator must notify the Air Pollution Control Division (the Division) by
       submitting a Notice of Startup form to the Division.

       I.I.1.    No later than fifteen (15) days following the commencement of operation of
                 the well production facility registered under this permit. For the purpose of
                 this condition, commencement of operation is defined as “the date
                 permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
                 flowing to sales lines, gathering lines or storage tanks from the first
                 producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
                 completion operations (including flowback).” (Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                 Section I.B.15.); or

       I.I.2.    No later than fifteen (15) days following start-up of newly registered
                 emission units located at a facility with existing sources as defined in
                 Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.25.

       The NOS must be submitted using the Division’s online submission tool on the
       Division’s self-certification webpage at https://cdphe.colorado.gov/apens-and-air-



                                           Page 11 of 54
        permits/air-permit-self-certification. Failure to notify the Division of startup of the
        permitted source is a violation of Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation
        Number 3, Part B, Section III.G.1. and can result in the revocation of the permit

II.     General Operating Conditions

II.A.   Air pollution control equipment may be used to comply with the emission limits and
        performance standards required in this general permit.

II.B.   For combustion devices and air pollution control equipment subject to a no visible
        emissions standard in Regulation Number 7, visible emissions must not exceed any
        period or periods of duration greater than or equal to one minute in any fifteen
        minute period during normal operation. When owners or operators measure opacity
        for this standard, EPA Method 22 must be used. (Reference: Regulation Number 7,
        Part B, Sections II.A.45. and II.B.2.b.)

II.C.   For air pollution control equipment not subject to a no visible emissions standard in
        Regulation Number 7, the owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements
        in Regulation Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of
        Regulation Number 1.

II.D.   If a combustion device is used to comply with the requirements of this permit, the
        owner or operator must ensure the combustion device meets the following
        requirements.

        II.D.1.   The combustion device must have a design destruction efficiency of at least
                  98% for hydrocarbons;

        II.D.2.   Except as provided in Condition IV.J.1.e., the combustion device must be
                  enclosed;



                                            Page 12 of 54
        II.D.3.    The combustion device must be equipped with an operational auto-igniter;

        II.D.4.    The combustion device must have no visible emissions during normal
                   operations, as defined under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.A.45.;
                   and

        II.D.5.    The combustion device must be designed so that an observer can, by means
                   of visual observation from the outside of the enclosed flare or combustion
                   device, or by other convenient means approved by the Division, determine
                   whether it is operating properly.

II.E.   This well production facility is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number
        2.

III.    Annual Emission Limitation Requirements

III.A. Equipment Specific Emission Limitations

        III.A.1.   The maximum allowable emissions from each emission point registered
                   under this general permit must not exceed the requested federally
                   enforceable annual emission limitations (tons per year) as listed on the
                   general permit registration approval letter, or if an approval letter has not
                   been issued, as certified by the owner or operator in the APEN included
                   with the general permit registration. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part
                   B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

        III.A.2.   The owner or operator must operate and maintain the equipment registered
                   under the general permit with the air pollution control equipment as listed
                   in the general permit registration to reduce emissions to less than or equal




                                             Page 13 of 54
                 to the emissions limits established in this permit. (Reference: Regulation
                 Number 3, Part B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

III.B. Facility-Wide Emission Limitations

      III.B.1.   The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from all
                 emission points at the stationary source are federally enforceable and must
                 not exceed the following limitations: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part
                 B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

                           Particulate Matter (PM):                           90.0 tons per year

                           Particulate Matter (PM10):                         90.0 tons per year

                           Particulate Matter (PM2.5):                        90.0 tons per year

                           Sulfur Dioxide (SO2):                              90.0 tons per year

                           Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                             45.0 tons per year

                           Carbon Monoxide (CO):                              90.0 tons per year

                           Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):                  45.0 tons per year

                           For sources that are also subject to Conditions III.B.3. or III.B.4.,
                           the owner or operator must comply with the most stringent limits
                           for each pollutant.

      III.B.2.   The maximum allowable emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) from
                 all emissions points at the stationary source are federally enforceable and
                 must not exceed the following limitations: (Reference: Regulation Number
                 3, Part B, Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)


                                            Page 14 of 54
                     Each Individual HAP:                                8.0 tons per year

                     Combined total of all HAPs:                        20.0 tons per year

III.B.3.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as serious
           nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to Conditions
           I.D. or I.E. of this permit, must track potential emissions from all insignificant
           activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance with
           facility emission limitations as indicated below. An inventory of each
           insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be made
           available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes of this
           condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or equipment,
           which emits any amount of VOC or NOx but does not require an APEN or is
           permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing nonattainment
           area to serious, the limit applies upon the effective date of reclassification.
           (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)

                Total point source potential emissions from the facility, including all
                permitted emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
                activities, must be less than:

                Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):                         50 tons per year

                Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                                    50 tons per year

III.B.4.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as severe
           nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to Conditions
           I.D. or I.E. of this permit, must track potential emissions from all insignificant
           activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance with
           facility emission limitations as indicated below. An inventory of each


                                    Page 15 of 54
                insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be made
                available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes of this
                condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or equipment,
                which emits any amount of VOC or NOx but does not require an APEN or is
                permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing nonattainment
                area to severe, the limit applies upon the effective date of reclassification.
                (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)

                     Total potential emissions from the facility, including all permitted
                     emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant activities, must
                     be less than:

                     Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):                        25 tons per year

                     Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                                   25 tons per year

IV.   Other Emission Limitations and Operation and Maintenance Requirements

IV.A. Facility-Wide Requirements

      IV.A.1.   All hydrocarbon liquids and produced water collection, storage, processing
                and handling operations, regardless of size, must be designed, operated and
                maintained so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic compounds and
                other hydrocarbons to the atmosphere to the extent reasonably practicable.
                (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B.1.a.)

      IV.A.2.   In any ozone nonattainment or ozone attainment/maintenance area, all
                hydrocarbon liquids and produced water collection, storage, processing and
                handling operations, regardless of size, must be designed, operated and
                maintained so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic compounds to the



                                        Page 16 of 54
          atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. (Reference: Regulation
          Number 7, Part B, Section I.C.1.b.)

IV.A.3.   The owner or operator must maintain documentation clearly outlining
          applicable requirements of New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) and
          Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) for equipment registered
          under this permit. The documentation must be located on-site or at a local
          field office with well production facility responsibility. Records may be
          kept in either electronic or hard copy format provided that they can be
          promptly supplied to the Division upon request. Potentially applicable
          requirements that may apply include, but are not limited to:

          IV.A.3.a. NSPS GG, Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
                    (Reference: 40 C.F.R Part 60, Subparts A and GG and Regulation
                    Number 6, Part A, Subparts A and GG)

          IV.A.3.b. NSPS Kb, Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid
                    Storage Vessels for which construction, reconstruction or
                    modification commenced after July 23, 1984. (Reference: 40
                    C.F.R Part 60, Subparts A and Kb and Regulation Number 6, Part
                    A, Subparts A and Kb)

          IV.A.3.c. NSPS JJJJ, Standards of Performance for Spark Ignition Internal
                    Combustion Engines (Reference: 40 C.F.R. Part 60, Subparts A and
                    JJJJ)

          IV.A.3.d. NSPS KKKK, Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion
                    Turbines (Reference: 40 C.F.R Part 60, Subparts A and KKKK and
                    Regulation Number 6, Part A, Subparts A and KKKK)



                                  Page 17 of 54
IV.A.3.e. NSPS OOOO, Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural
         Gas Production, Transmission, and Distribution (Reference: 40
         C.F.R. Part 60, Subparts A and OOOO and Regulation Number 6,
         Part A, Subparts A and OOOO)

IV.A.3.f. NSPS OOOOa, Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural
         Gas Production, Transmission, and Distribution (Reference: 40
         C.F.R. Part 60, Subparts A and OOOOa)

IV.A.3.g. NSPS OOOOb, Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural
         Gas Production, Transmission, and Distribution (Reference: 40
         C.F.R. Part 60, Subparts A and OOOOb)

IV.A.3.h. MACT HH, National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air
         Pollutants for Source Categories from Oil and Natural Gas
         Production Facilities (Reference: 40 C.F.R Part 63, Subparts A and
         HH and Regulation Number 8, Part E, Subpart A and HH)

IV.A.3.i. MACT YYYY, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
         Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines (Reference: 40
         C.F.R. Part 63, Subparts A and YYYY and Regulation Number 8,
         Part D, Subparts A and YYYY)

IV.A.3.j. MACT ZZZZ, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
         Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion
         Engines (Reference: 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subparts A and ZZZZ and
         Regulation Number 8, Part D, Subparts A and ZZZZ)




                       Page 18 of 54
IV.B. Natural Gas Fired Engine Requirements

      IV.B.1.   The owner or operator of natural gas fired reciprocating internal
                combustion engines registered under this permit must be operated such that
                emissions do not exceed the emission standards contained in the table
                below. If the engine is subject to a more stringent applicable performance
                standard for a specific pollutant, the most stringent performance standard
                will apply. (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.E.)




                                        Page 19 of 54
          Table 1: Emission Standards (g/hp-hr) for Rich Burn and Lean Burn Engines


               Engine Design (horsepower              NOx     CO          VOC
               (hp))


              Rich Burn (Greater than or              2.0     4.0         1.0
              equal to 100 and less than 500)


              Lean Burn (Greater than or              2.0     4.0         1.0
              equal to 100 and less than 500)


              Rich Burn (Greater than or              0.7     1.5         1.0
              equal to 500)


              Lean Burn (Greater than or              2.0     1.5         0.7
              equal to 500)


IV.B.2.   The owner or operator of natural gas fired reciprocating internal
          combustion engines that are greater than or equal to 100 hp and
          constructed in or relocated to the state of Colorado from another state on
          or after the applicable date below must be operated such that emissions do
          not exceed the emission standards in the table below as expressed in units
          of grams per horsepower-hour (g/hp-hr). (Reference: Regulation Number
          26, Part B, Section I.D.)




                                      Page 20 of 54
          Table 2: Emission Standards (g/hp-hr) for Rich Burn and Lean Burn Engines



                                 Construction
            Maximum Engine
                                 or Relocation         NOx        CO           VOC
            HP
                                 Date



             Greater than or
             equal to 100 and    January 1, 2011     1.0          2.0         0.7
             less than 500



             Greater than or
                                 July 1, 2010        1.0          2.0         0.7
             equal to 500



IV.B.3.   Engines registered to operate in accordance with the provisions of this
          general permit with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to
          1,000 horsepower must not exceed the emission standards in Regulation
          Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5. as applicable per the most current version
          of Regulation Number 26.

IV.B.4.   Rich burn engines with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal
          to 100 horsepower but less than 1000 horsepower and lean burn engines
          with a manufacturer’s design rate greater than or equal to 250 horsepower
          but less than 1000 horsepower must comply with the requirements in
          Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6., as applicable per the most
          current version of Regulation Number 26.



                                  Page 21 of 54
IV.B.5.   The owner or operator of any rich burn natural gas-fired reciprocating
          internal combustion engine with a nameplate rating of 500 horsepower or
          greater located in an ozone nonattainment area must install and operate
          the engine with a non-selective catalyst reduction (NSCR) system and an air
          fuel controller. (Reference: Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.B.1.)

IV.B.6.   The owner or operator of any lean burn natural gas-fired reciprocating
          internal combustion engine with a nameplate rating of 500 horsepower or
          greater located in an ozone nonattainment area must install and operate
          the engine with an oxidation catalyst. (Reference: Regulation Number 26,
          Part B, Section I.B.2.)

IV.B.7.   These general operation and maintenance requirements apply to all natural
          gas spark ignition engines at the well production facility if controlled by air
          pollution control equipment.

          IV.B.7.a. Each engine and associated catalytic control device, if applicable,
                    must be maintained and operated according to the
                    manufacturer’s scheduled maintenance guide or equivalent. A
                    company may establish its own equivalent maintenance schedule
                    providing it achieves efficient engine operation and meets or
                    exceeds the performance standards of this permit.

          IV.B.7.b. A copy of maintenance schedules must be kept including the date
                    and description of maintenance.

          IV.B.7.c. If maintenance activities or actions are dependent upon hours of
                    operation, then engine operating hours must be tracked and




                                    Page 22 of 54
         recorded. If a method other than hours of operation is used, then
         the tracking method must be recorded.

IV.B.7.d. For each rich burn engine controlled with a NSCR must be
         equipped with an air-fuel ratio controller (AFRC). Each AFRC must
         be maintained per the manufacturer’s recommended maintenance
         or equivalent, including replacement of the oxygen sensor as
         necessary for oxygen sensor-based controllers.

IV.B.7.e. For each engine equipped with a catalytic emission control
         device, the catalyst must be cleaned, reconditioned, and replaced
         at least as often as the manufacturer’s recommended
         maintenance schedule or equivalent.

IV.B.7.f. For each engine equipped with a catalytic emission control
         device, the catalyst inlet temperature must be recorded weekly,
         unless a more stringent requirement is required in Regulation
         Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5.e.(ii). If the temperature is
         outside of the range specified below, corrective action must be
         taken and documented.

         IV.B.7.f.(i)   For a rich burn engine with a non-selective catalytic
                        reduction (NSCR) emission control device, the
                        temperature into the catalyst must be between
                        750°F and 1250°F.

         IV.B.7.f.(ii) For a lean burn engine with an oxidation catalyst
                        emission control device, the temperature into the
                        catalyst must be between 450°F and 1350°F.



                        Page 23 of 54
IV.B.7.g. The pressure drop across the catalyst bed must be measured and
         recorded monthly. The monthly pressure drop values must not
         deviate by more than +/- 2 inches of water column of the most
         recent baseline value established.

         IV.B.7.g.(i)   If the pressure drop value is out of range, corrective
                        action must be taken and documented within 15
                        days of the measurement. The owner or operator
                        must perform one or more of the following:

                        ■ The owner or operator may artificially load the
                           engine to within +/- 10 percent of the most
                           recent baseline load value established. If the
                           pressure drop is then within range, the pressure
                           drop and load values must be documented and no
                           further corrective action is required;

                        ■ The owner or operator may forego maintenance
                           activities and perform a portable analyzer test to
                           establish a new pressure drop baseline; or

                        ■ Other corrective action as the owner or operator
                           deems appropriate.

         IV.B.7.g.(ii) The baseline pressure drop must be established by
                        recording the engine load and pressure drop across
                        the catalyst during engine testing. The baseline
                        pressure drop must be periodically reestablished
                        upon the following occurrences:



                        Page 24 of 54
                                        ■ During each initial compliance test required by
                                            Section V. If historical initial compliance test
                                            data is used to fulfill Section V and baseline
                                            pressure drop was not recorded during the
                                            compliance test, the operator may defer
                                            establishing the baseline pressure drop until the
                                            first periodic performance test required by
                                            Section VI.D.4.

                                        ■ During each periodic performance test required
                                            by Section VI.E.4.

                                        ■ Within the first thirty (30) days of engine
                                            operation from the date that the catalyst is
                                            cleaned, reconditioned, or replaced.

      IV.B.8.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
                Section II.A.1. (requirements for major sources of NOx) must comply with
                all applicable requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section II.A.

IV.C. Storage Tank Requirements

      IV.C.1.   The owner or operator of storage tanks must comply with the applicable
                emission control and recordkeeping requirements in Regulation Number 7,
                Part B, Sections II.C.1. and II.C.4., including, without limitation:

                IV.C.1.a. The owner or operator of storage tanks with uncontrolled actual
                          emissions greater than or equal to two (2) tons per year VOC
                          based on a rolling twelve-month total must collect and control
                          emissions from each storage tank by routing emissions to and


                                         Page 25 of 54
                      operating air pollution control equipment that achieves a
                      hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%. (Reference: Regulation
                      Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.1.c.)

          IV.C.1.b. The owner or operator must follow the inspection requirements of
                      Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.1.d.

          IV.C.1.c. The owner or operator must comply the storage tank system
                      measurement system requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part
                      B, Section II.C.4.

IV.C.2.   The owner or operator of storage tanks required to operate and maintain air
          pollution control equipment by Regulation Number 7,Part B, Sections I.D. or
          II.C.1. must comply with the requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Sections II.C.2. and II.C.3.

IV.C.3.   In any ozone nonattainment or ozone attainment/maintenance area, the
          owner or operator of storage tanks containing condensate must comply with
          all applicable requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections I.C.,
          I.D., I.E., and I.F.

IV.C.4.   These general operation and maintenance requirements apply to all storage
          tanks equipped with air pollution control equipment at the well production
          facility.

          IV.C.4.a. Where present, thief hatch seals must be inspected for integrity
                      monthly and replaced as necessary. Inspections may be completed
                      with Approved Instrument Monitoring Method (AIMM) equipment,
                      to avoid unnecessary openings of the thief hatch.




                                     Page 26 of 54
               IV.C.4.b. Where present, thief hatch covers must be properly rated and
                         properly sealed.

               IV.C.4.c. Where present, thief hatch springs must be inspected semi-
                         annually to ensure proper rating and function.

               IV.C.4.d. If the separator immediately upstream of the tanks is equipped
                         with a dump valve, inspect the valve weekly to ensure it is not
                         stuck open and not visibly clogged.

               IV.C.4.e. Operators must retain records of these inspections, including the
                         date, method (e.g. AIMM v. physical inspection), findings, and
                         corrective action taken, if any.

IV.D. Hydrocarbon Loadout Requirements

     IV.D.1.   Owners or operators of well production facilities with a hydrocarbon liquids
               loadout to transport vehicles throughput of greater than or equal to 5,000
               barrels per year on a rolling 12-month basis must control emissions from the
               loadout of hydrocarbon liquids from controlled storage tanks to transport
               vehicles by using (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection and return
               system and/or air pollution control equipment. Compliance with this section
               must be achieved in accordance with the following schedule: (Reference:
               Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.)

               IV.D.1.a. Facilities constructed or modified on or after May 1, 2020, must
                         be in compliance by commencement of operation.

               IV.D.1.b. Facilities constructed before May 1, 2020, must be in compliance
                         by May 1, 2021.



                                       Page 27 of 54
          IV.D.1.c. Facilities not subject to Conditions IV.D.1.a or IV.D.1.b that
                    exceed the hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles
                    throughput of greater than or equal to 5,000 barrels per year on a
                    rolling 12-month basis must control emissions from loadout upon
                    exceeding the loadout threshold.

IV.D.2.   Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Section II.C.5. must comply with loadout observations and operator training
          requirements in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(iv)).
          Compliance with this section must be achieved in accordance with the
          schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(i).

IV.D.3.   Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Section II.C.5. must comply with the requirements in Regulation Number 7,
          Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(iii). Compliance with this section must be achieved
          in accordance with the schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Section II.C.5.a.(i).

IV.D.4.   Owners or operators that are subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Section II.C.5. must retain records for at least two (2) years and make such
          records available to the Division upon request. Compliance with this section
          must be achieved in accordance with the schedule set forth in Regulation
          Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(i).

IV.D.5.   Air pollution control equipment used to comply with Regulation Number 7,
          Part B, Section II.C.5. must comply with Regulation Number 7, Part B,
          Section II.B., and achieve a hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95% in
          accordance with Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(vi).




                                  Page 28 of 54
      IV.D.6.   Storage tanks must operate without venting at all times during loadout.
                Compliance with this section must be achieved in accordance with the
                schedule set forth in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.(ii).

IV.E. Separator Venting Requirements

      IV.E.1.   The owner or operator of a separator covered by this permit must ensure
                that gas coming off the separator, produced during normal operation from
                any newly constructed, hydraulically fractured, or recompleted oil and gas
                well, must either be routed to a gas gathering line or controlled from the
                date of first production by air pollution control equipment that achieves an
                average hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%. (Reference: Regulation
                Number 7, Part B, Section II.F.)

      IV.E.2.   The owner or operator must continuously monitor and record the volumetric
                flow rate of natural gas emitted from the separator(s) using a flow meter.
                For this requirement, records do not include natural gas delivered to a gas
                gathering line. Total volumetric flow rate of natural gas must be recorded
                on a monthly basis. The owner or operator must follow manufacturer
                recommendations for the operation, maintenance, and calibration of the
                flow meter.

      IV.E.3.   These general operation and maintenance requirements apply to all
                separators equipped with air pollution control equipment at the well
                production facility. The owner or operator of separators controlled by air
                pollution control equipment must inspect the separator on a weekly basis
                including monitoring and documenting the operating pressure of the
                separator.




                                        Page 29 of 54
IV.F. Fugitive Component Leak Emissions Requirements

      IV.F.1.   The owner or operator of a well production facility located in the 8-hour
                ozone control area (8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation
                Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
                02/14/2024)) must comply with leak detection and repair requirements,
                including but not limited to: monitoring, repair, re-monitoring,
                recordkeeping and reporting contained in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                Section I.L.

      IV.F.2.   The owner or operator of a well production facility must comply with leak
                detection and repair, including but not limited to: monitoring, repair, re-
                monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting contained in Regulation Number 7,
                Part B, Section II.E. Where the requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part
                B, Sections I.L. and II.E. overlap, the more stringent will control.

IV.G. Natural Gas-Driven Diaphragm Pneumatic Pumps Requirements

      IV.G.1.   The owner or operator of natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps,
                as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.B.20., located at a well
                production facility in an ozone nonattainment or ozone
                attainment/maintenance area must comply with applicable requirements of
                Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I.K., including but not limited to:
                monitoring, repair, re-monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting
                requirements. Natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps that are in
                operation during any period of time during a calendar day less than 90 days
                per calendar year are not subject to Section IV.G.1. (Reference: Regulation
                Number 7, Part B, Section I.K.)




                                         Page 30 of 54
IV.G.1.a. The owner or operator of each natural gas-driven pneumatic
          pump must reduce volatile organic compound emissions from the
          natural gas-driven pneumatic pump by 95% if it is technically
          feasible to route emissions to an existing control device or process
          at the well production facility. If the air pollution control
          equipment available onsite is unable to achieve a 95% emission
          reduction and it is not technically feasible to route the emissions
          to a process at the well production facility, the owner or operator
          must still route the natural gas-driven pneumatic pump emissions
          to the existing control device.

IV.G.1.b. If the owner or operator subsequently installs a control device or
          it becomes technically feasible to route the emissions to a
          process, the owner or operator must reduce volatile organic
          compound emissions from the natural gas-driven pneumatic pump
          by 95% within thirty (30) days of startup of the control device or
          of the feasibility of routing emissions to a process at the well
          production facility.

IV.G.1.c. The owner or operator is not required to control natural gas-
          driven pneumatic pump emissions if, through an engineering
          assessment by a qualified professional engineer, routing a natural
          gas-driven pneumatic pump to a control device or process at the
          well production facility is shown to be technically infeasible.

IV.G.1.d. If the owner or operator uses a control device or routes emissions
          to a process to reduce emissions, the owner or operator must
          connect the natural gas-driven pneumatic pump through a closed



                         Page 31 of 54
          vent system that routes the natural gas-driven pneumatic pump
          emissions to the process or control device.

IV.G.1.e. The owner or operator must conduct annual visual inspections of
          the closed vent system for defects that could result in air
          emissions. Defects of the closed vent system include, but are not
          limited to, visible cracks, holes, gaps in piping, loose connections,
          liquid leaks, or broken or missing caps or other closure devices.

IV.G.1.f. The owner or operator must conduct annual EPA Method 21
          inspections of the closed vent system to determine whether the
          closed vent system operates with volatile organic compound
          emissions less than 500 ppm.

IV.G.1.g. In the event that a defect that could result in emissions or leak is
          detected, the owner or operator must make a first attempt to
          repair no later than five (5) days after detecting the defect or
          leak and complete repair no later than thirty (30) days after
          detecting the defect or leak.

IV.G.1.h. Owners or operators may delay inspection or repair of a closed
          vent system if:

          IV.G.1.h.(i) Repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown.
                        If shutdown is required, a repair attempt must be
                        made during the next scheduled shutdown and final
                        repair completed within two (2) years after
                        discovery.




                         Page 32 of 54
                    IV.G.1.h.(ii) The closed vent system is unsafe to inspect or repair
                                  because personnel would be exposed to an
                                  immediate danger as a consequence of completing
                                  the inspection or repair.

                    IV.G.1.h.(iii) The closed vent system is difficult to inspect or
                                  repair because personnel must be elevated more
                                  than two (2) meters above a supported surface or
                                  are unable to inspect or repair via a wheeled scissor-
                                  lift or hydraulic type scaffold that allows access up
                                  to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the ground.

                    IV.G.1.h.(iv) The closed vents system is inaccessible to inspect or
                                  repair because the closed vent system is buried,
                                  insulated, or obstructed by equipment or piping that
                                  prevents access.

IV.G.2.   As an alternative to the inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions in
          IV.G.1.e. through IV.G.1.h., IV.G.4.e. and IV.G.4.f., the owner or operator
          may inspect, repair, and document the closed vent system in accordance
          with the leak detection and repair program in Condition IV.F.1, including
          the inspection frequency.

IV.G.3.   As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
          recordkeeping provisions described in Conditions IV.G.1. through IV.G.3,
          and IV.G.4. the owner or operator may comply with natural gas-driven
          pneumatic pump emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting
          requirements of New Source Performance Standard in 40 CFR Part 60
          (November 16, 2017).


                                  Page 33 of 54
IV.G.4.   The owner or operator of pneumatic pumps located at a well production
          facility in an ozone nonattainment or ozone attainment/maintenance area
          must maintain the following records for at least five (5) years and make
          records available to the Division upon request. (Reference: Regulation
          Number 7, Part B, Section I.K.3.)

          IV.G.4.a. Identification of each natural gas-driven pneumatic pump;

          IV.G.4.b. For natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps in operation
                    less than 90 days per calendar year, records of the days of
                    operation each calendar year;

          IV.G.4.c. Records of control devices designed to achieve less than 95%
                    emission reduction, including an evaluation or manufacturer
                    specifications indicating the percentage reduction the control
                    device is designed to achieve;

          IV.G.4.d. Records of the engineering assessment and certification by a
                    qualified professional engineer that routing natural gas-driven
                    pneumatic pump emissions to a control device or process is
                    technically infeasible;

          IV.G.4.e. Each closed vent system inspection and any resulting responsive
                    actions; and

          IV.G.4.f. Each closed vent system on the delay of inspection or repair list,
                    the reason for and duration of the delay of inspection or repair,
                    and the schedule for inspecting or repairing such closed vent
                    system.




                                   Page 34 of 54
IV.H. Natural Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controllers Requirements

        IV.H.1.   The owner or operator of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers located
                  in an ozone nonattainment or ozone attainment/maintenance area must
                  comply with Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections III.C., III.D. III.E. and
                  III.F. This includes but is not limited to: monitoring, repair, re-monitoring,
                  recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

IV.I.   Natural Gas Fired Turbine Requirements

        IV.I.1.   The owner or operator of a natural gas fired turbine at a well production
                  facility must comply with the particulate matter and sulfur dioxide emission
                  regulations of Regulation Number 1 including, but not limited to, the
                  following:

                  IV.I.1.a. Emissions of particulate matter in the flue gases must not exceed
                               the requirements listed in Regulation Number 1, Section III.A.1.

                  IV.I.1.b. Emissions of sulfur dioxide must not exceed the combustion
                               turbine limitations listed in Regulation Number 1. For existing
                               turbines refer to the requirements listed in Regulation Number 1,
                               Section VI.A.3.c and for new turbines refer to the requirements
                               listed in Regulation Number 1, Section VI.B.4.c.

        IV.I.2.   The owner or operator must follow manufacturer recommendations for the
                  operation and maintenance of the turbine and its air pollution control
                  equipment. These schedules and practices, as well as all maintenance
                  records showing compliance with these recommendations, must be made
                  available to the Division upon request.




                                             Page 35 of 54
IV.J. Routine or Predictable Gas Venting Emissions Requirements

      IV.J.1.   For downhole well maintenance, well liquids unloading events, and well
                plugging activities:

                IV.J.1.a. Owners or operators must use best management practices to
                          minimize hydrocarbon emissions and the need for emissions
                          from the well associated with downhole well maintenance, well
                          liquids unloading, and well plugging, unless emitting is
                          necessary for safety. (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
                          II.G.1.)

                IV.J.1.b. Prior to January 1, 2023, during liquids unloading events, any
                          means of creating differential pressure must first be used to
                          attempt to unload the liquids from the well without emitting. If
                          these methods are not successful in unloading the liquids from
                          the well, the well may emit in order to create the necessary
                          differential pressure to bring the liquids to the surface.
                          (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.G.1.a)

                IV.J.1.c. The owner or operator must be present on-site during any
                          planned downhole well maintenance, well liquids unloading, or
                          well plugging event and must ensure that any emissions from
                          the well associated with the event are limited to the maximum
                          extent practicable. (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
                          II.G.1.b)

                IV.J.1.d. Beginning January 1, 2023, for all downhole well maintenance
                          and well liquids unloading activities with emissions to



                                        Page 36 of 54
atmosphere, owners or operators must, consistent with well site
conditions and good engineering practices (Regulation Number
7, Part B, Section II.G.1.c):

IV.J.1.d.(i)   Use best engineering practices in the design and
               construction of oil and gas wells and well
               production facilities that commence operation
               after January 1, 2023, to minimize the need for
               well liquids unloading with emissions to
               atmosphere and other downhole well maintenance
               as the well ages.

IV.J.1.d.(ii) Attempt to create differential pressure to unload
               the liquids from the well without emitting.

IV.J.1.d.(iii) Monitor wellhead pressure and/or flow rate of the
               vented natural gas

IV.J.1.d.(iv) Equalize the wellhead pressure with the
               production separator pressure prior to conducting
               unloading, swabbing, or maintenance activities,
               when practicable.

IV.J.1.d.(v) Close wellhead vents to the atmosphere or
               otherwise end direct emission of natural gas to
               atmosphere as soon as practicable.

IV.J.1.d.(vi) Minimize emissions to atmosphere from well liquids
               unloading and well swabbing, through the
               installation, use, and optimization of artificial lift,


               Page 37 of 54
                                 such as plunger lift with smart automation, except
                                 as provided in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                                 Sections II.G.1.c.(vi)(A) through II.G.1.c.(vi)(D).

          IV.J.1.e. Beginning January 1, 2023, unless exempted in Regulation
                   Number 7, Part B, Sections II.G.1.d.(i) or II.G.1.d.(ii), owners or
                   operators must use capture and recovery techniques or install
                   and use a control device to achieve at least 95% control of
                   hydrocarbon emissions during well liquids unloading and well
                   swabbing operations. Notwithstanding any provision in
                   Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.B. to the contrary,
                   owners or operators may use open flares and portable
                   combustion devices to comply with this Section II.G.1.d.
                   (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.G.1.d)

          IV.J.1.f. The owner or operator must comply with the Recordkeeping and
                   Reporting requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                   Sections II.G.2. and II.G.3.

IV.J.2.   The owner or operator must use best management practices to minimize
          hydrocarbon emissions during, or to reduce the frequency of, routine or
          predictable gas venting emissions events.

          IV.J.2.a. The owner and operator must develop and maintain a
                   description of best management practices implemented to
                   minimize hydrocarbon emissions during, or to reduce the
                   frequency of, routine or predictable gas venting events covered
                   by this permit. The description must also include how those best
                   management practices are implemented and performed.


                                 Page 38 of 54
IV.J.3.   The owner or operator must perform routine or predictable gas venting
          emissions activities between October 1 and April 30, when practicable.

IV.J.4.   The owner or operator must avoid performing routine or predictable gas
          venting emissions activities on Ozone Action Days, when practicable. Ozone
          Action Day advisories are published by the Colorado Department of Public
          Health and Environment.

IV.J.5.   The owner or operator, or authorized third party representative, must:

          IV.J.5.a. Remain on site while a storage tank thief hatch is open if there
                    are liquids in the tank, if the thief hatch was opened to perform
                    routine or predictable emitting activities; and

          IV.J.5.b. Minimize the duration of time the thief hatch is open during
                    activities to determine the quality and/or quantity of storage tank
                    contents.

IV.J.6.   For pigging-related activities, the owner or operator must install, operate
          and maintain a liquids handling system to remove any accumulated liquid
          prior to pig receiver depressurization.

IV.J.7.   For equipment blowdowns, the owner or operator must avoid blowing down
          the equipment completely to ambient pressure, where practicable.

IV.J.8.   Where applicable, Conditions IV.J.1. through IV.J.7. fulfill the
          requirements to apply Reasonably Available Control Technology of
          Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2.




                                  Page 39 of 54
V.     Testing and Monitoring Requirements

V.A.   Testing requirements

       V.A.1.   The owner or operator of any flare or combustion device used to meet the
                requirements of this permit must visually check for, on a weekly basis, the
                presence or absence of smoke. If smoke is observed, either the equipment
                must be immediately shut-in to investigate the potential cause for smoke
                and perform repairs, as necessary, or EPA Method 22 must be conducted to
                determine whether visible emissions are present for a period of at least one
                (1) minute in fifteen (15) minutes. (Reference: Regulation Number 7, Part
                B, Sections I.C., I.E.2., II.A.45, II.B.2.)

       V.A.2.   The owner or operator of natural gas fired engines covered by this permit
                which are equipped with a catalytic emission control device must complete
                periodic performance tests for NOx and CO using a portable analyzer semi-
                annually (or within a 4,380 hour operating period if the engine does not run
                continuously) to indicate continued performance of the catalyst and proper
                operation of the engine per emission limits specified in this permit. The
                initial periodic performance test must be completed within 180 days of
                commencement of operation of the natural gas fired engine.

                V.A.2.a. Each performance test should be performed with the engine
                           operating at the highest load practicable. However, it is not
                           required to artificially load the engine in order to perform the
                           test.

                V.A.2.b. All performance tests using a portable analyzer must meet the
                           requirements established in the Portable Analyzer Monitoring



                                           Page 40 of 54
                   Protocol or other Division approved protocol, including
                   recordkeeping requirements.

         V.A.2.c. At the owner or operator’s discretion, a performance test using a
                   reference test method may be used instead of a portable
                   analyzer.

         V.A.2.d. If the engine fails a portable analyzer test, corrective action must
                   be taken and documented within 15 days of the test.

         V.A.2.e. The owner or operator must document the results of each
                   portable analyzer or reference test, including:

                   V.A.2.e.(i)   Air-fuel ratio controller (AFRC) oxygen sensor mV
                                 reading, and

                   V.A.2.e.(ii) Record the AFRC setpoint and reading.

V.A.3.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
         Section I.D.5. must comply with the monitoring requirements listed in
         Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5.e., as applicable per the most
         current version of Regulation Number 26.

V.A.4.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
         Section I.D.5. must comply with the performance testing requirements
         listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.5.d., as applicable per
         the most current version of Regulation Number 26.

V.A.5.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
         Section I.D.6.a. must comply with the monitoring requirements listed in



                                 Page 41 of 54
         Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6.d., as applicable per the most
         current version of Regulation Number 26.

V.A.6.   Engines subject to the requirements of Regulation Number 26, Part B,
         Section I.D.6. must comply with the performance testing requirements
         listed in Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6.c., as applicable per
         the most current version of Regulation Number 26.

V.A.7.   If the general permit registration application requests greater than 95%
         control efficiency for VOC emissions from any separator the owner or
         operator must conduct an initial source compliance test on the enclosed
         combustion device. The initial compliance test must be completed within
         180 days of commencement of operation of the separator. The initial
         compliance test must demonstrate compliance with the emissions limit VOC
         and to demonstrate a minimum destruction efficiency equal to or greater
         than the control efficiency requested in the general permit registration
         application. At a minimum the following must be measured and recorded
         during the compliance test:

            ■ mass emission rates of VOC at the inlet of the control device (Mi)
               using EPA or other Division approved methods;

            ■ mass emission rates of VOC at the outlet of the control device (Mo)
               using EPA or other Division approved methods;

            ■ combustion chamber temperature;

            ■ gas flow rate;

            ■ supplemental fuel flow rate;



                                 Page 42 of 54
                   ■ gas heat content; and

                   ■ gas composition.

                The destruction efficiency (DE) for VOC must be calculated using the
                following equation:
                DE (%) = 100*(Mi-Mo)/Mi

                The test protocol, test, and test report must be in accordance with the
                requirements of the Air Pollution Control Division Compliance Test Manual.
                The test protocol must be submitted to the Division for review and approval
                at least thirty (30) days prior to testing. No compliance test will be
                conducted without prior approval from the Division. Within thirty (30) days
                following completion of the test(s), a compliance test report must be
                submitted to the Division for review within 30 days of completion of the
                compliance test. Additional time may be granted upon written request. Any
                compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with an annual
                emission limitation must have the results projected up to the annual
                averaging time by multiplying the test results by the process limit(s) for
                that averaging time as indicated in the application for this general permit.
                (Regulation Number 3, Part B., Section III.G.3)

                 Results of the initial compliance tests must be submitted to the Division
                 within 60 days of the test.

V.B.   Air pollution control equipment monitoring requirements

       V.B.1.   The owner or operator of air pollution control equipment used to meet the
                requirements of this permit must monitor and document the proper
                operation of the air pollution control equipment on a weekly basis.


                                          Page 43 of 54
         V.B.1.a. Inspections can be done by either visible observation or other
                  means approved by the Division.

         V.B.1.b. A check box is suitable for recording proper operation.

         V.B.1.c. Indications of improper operation for a flare or combustion device
                  include, but are not limited to,

                  V.B.1.c.(i)    absence of pilot light,

                  V.B.1.c.(ii)   malfunction of electronic ignition,

                  V.B.1.c.(iii) clogged burner tray, or

                  V.B.1.c.(iv) presence of smoke.

V.B.2.   The owner or operator of air pollution control equipment used to comply
         with this permit must document improper operation by recording:

         V.B.2.a. a description of the problem,

         V.B.2.b. the resolution of the problem,

         V.B.2.c. the date range the air pollution control equipment was improperly
                  operating or not operating, and

         V.B.2.d. the process throughput when the air pollution control equipment
                  is not operating.

V.B.3.   The owner or operator of any flare or combustion device used to meet the
         requirements of this permit must check and document on a weekly basis




                                 Page 44 of 54
                that the valves for piping of gas to the auto-igniter or pilot light and piping
                of waste gas to the air pollution control equipment are open.

VI.   Emission and Process Recordkeeping Requirements

VI.A. Emission limitations and emission tracking requirements

      VI.A.1.   The owner or operator must calculate actual emissions of criteria and
                hazardous air pollutants from all APEN reportable sources each month and
                keep a compliance record on site or at a local field office with site
                responsibility for Division review. For criteria and hazardous air pollutants,
                the owner or operator must maintain records on a rolling twelve (12) month
                total basis. By the end of each month a new twelve month total is
                calculated and recorded based on the previous twelve months’ data.

      VI.A.2.   For emission sources registered to this general permit, the owner or
                operator must maintain monthly process records used to support monthly
                actual emissions calculations for each emissions point, as listed in the table
                below.

                Table 5: Summary of monthly records requirements per emission source



                  Emission Source                   Monthly records of the following data



                  Natural gas fired engine          Natural gas fuel consumption




                                         Page 45 of 54
Emission Source                 Monthly records of the following data



                                Produced water, crude oil, condensate,
                                and intermediate hydrocarbon liquid
                                throughput

Storage tanks                   When a vapor recovery unit (VRU) is
                                present: Produced water, crude oil,
                                condensate and intermediate hydrocarbon
                                liquid throughput during VRU downtime



                                Crude oil, condensate, and intermediate
                                hydrocarbon liquid throughput

Hydrocarbon liquid loadout to   When a vapor recovery unit (VRU) is
tanker trucks                   present: Produced water, crude oil,
                                condensate and intermediate hydrocarbon
                                liquid throughput during VRU downtime



Gas venting from separators     Natural gas vented to combustion device



Natural gas-driven diaphragm
                                Natural gas actuation throughput
pneumatic pumps




                     Page 46 of 54
                  Emission Source                  Monthly records of the following data



                  Natural gas fired turbines       Natural gas fuel consumption



                  Natural gas-driven pneumatic
                                                   Number and type of pneumatic controller
                  controllers



                                                   Number, type, and gas/liquid service of
                  Fugitive component leaks
                                                   components



                                                   Emitted volume of gas and data necessary
                   Routine or predictable gas
                                                   to complete calculation of emitted mass
                  venting emissions
                                                   of pollutants



      VI.A.3.   The owner or operator must maintain documentation of all periods of air
                pollution control equipment downtime and use the information to
                determine appropriate control percentages in calculating actual emissions.
                During periods of air pollution control equipment downtime, emissions must
                be calculated as uncontrolled.

VI.B. Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy provided that they can
      be promptly supplied to the Division upon request. All records must be retained for a
      period of five (5) years.




                                        Page 47 of 54
VI.C. The following records must be maintained on site or at a local field office with site
       responsibility for Division review:

       VI.C.1.    The current issuance of this general construction permit.

       VI.C.2.    The general permit registration approval letter, once received.

       VI.C.3.    Records of commencement of operation for each individual piece of
                  equipment covered under this general permit.

       VI.C.4.    Records of commencement of operation for air pollution control equipment
                  used to meet the requirements of this general permit.

       VI.C.5.    Any other records required by conditions of this permit.

VII.   Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted
       (DI) Communities

VII.A. Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in Disproportionately
       Impacted Communities must submit a notification at the time of registration for a
       general permit or permits issued pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
       III.I. indicating the source will comply with the monitoring requirements outlined in
       Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.J., as applicable, by either:

       VII.A.1.   Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to Section III.J.2. of
                  Part B;

       VII.A.2.   Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section III.J.3. of Part B; or




                                             Page 48 of 54
        VII.A.3.   Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant to Section
                   III.J.4. of Part B.

                   Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring methodology selected
                   on the general permit registration form.

VII.B. Owners or operators subject to VII.A.1 must submit a Division-approved source-
        specific monitoring plan as part of a complete registration request. (Regulation
        Number 3, Part B, III.E.)

VIII.   General Permit Registration Approval Process and Expiration

VIII.A. Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective from
        the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated in Condition VIII.B. A
        complete registration request consists of all General Permit application materials
        required by the Division and associated fees. The owner or operator may commence
        construction and operation of the well production facility as represented in the
        registration once the registration is deemed complete. In the event the well
        production facility does not qualify for registration under the general permit the
        owner or operator accepts the liability of commencing these activities

VIII.B. The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit registration request
        within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the request and provide written
        notification to the applicant. If the applicant does not receive notification of a
        completeness determination from the Division within sixty (60) days, the General
        Permit registration request will be deemed complete for the purpose of Condition
        VIII.A. and VIII.B.




                                           Page 49 of 54
VIII.C. The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division receives a
      complete General Permit registration request to provide the applicant with a written
      approval or denial of the registration.

IX.   General Permit Terms and Administration

IX.A. A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit requirements
      and is operating under Conditions I.D and I.E. must submit a Title V operating permit
      application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general permit into a Title V
      Operating Permit. The due date for this application is one year from the date on which
      the facility becomes subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements.
IX.B. In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number. 3, Part C, Section V.C.5, some or all
      of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be incorporated as specific
      conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit (if applicable). Additional
      monitoring not listed in this general permit may be included in the source’s Operating
      Permit in order to satisfy the periodic monitoring requirements of Section V.C.5.b.

IX.C. General Terms

      IX.C.1.    The requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part D apply at such time that
                 any well production facility or modification becomes a major well
                 production facility or major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in
                 any enforceable limitation that was established after August 7, 1980 on the
                 capacity of the well production facility or modification to otherwise emit a
                 pollutant, such as a restriction on hours of operation. (Reference:
                 Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections V.A.7.b. and VI.B.4.)

      IX.C.2.    This well production facility may be able to utilize the Affirmative Defense
                 Provision for Excess Emissions During Malfunctions contained in Common



                                         Page 50 of 54
          Provisions Regulation, Part II, Subpart E. The owner or operator must notify
          the Division of any malfunction condition which causes a violation of any
          emission limit or limits stated in this permit as soon as possible, but no later
          than noon of the next working day, followed by written notice to the
          Division addressing all of the criteria set forth in Part II.E.1 of the Common
          Provisions Regulation.

IX.C.3.   This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado
          Air Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
          And Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general and
          specific terms and conditions included in this document.

IX.C.4.   Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
          contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be
          necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of Section 25-7-
          114.5(7)(a), C.R.S.

IX.C.5.   Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not
          severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the
          permittee will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon such
          occurrence, this permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

IX.C.6.   Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all well production facilities
          required to file an Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) must pay an annual
          fee to cover the costs of inspections and administration.

IX.C.7.   Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
          Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may
          result in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under



                                   Page 51 of 54
                Sections 25-7-115 (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil penalties), -
                122.1 (criminal penalties), C.R.S.

      IX.C.8.   Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy
                and completeness of information supplied by the owner or operator and is
                conditioned upon operation of the well production facility, in accordance
                with this information and with representations made by the owner or
                operator or owner or operator's agents. It is valid only for the equipment
                and operations or activity specifically identified on the general permit
                registration.

IX.D. Registration Revision/Termination

      IX.D.1.   The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit
                under the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                III.I.3.c. and require the owner or operator to apply for a Construction
                Permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

      IX.D.2.   A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner by
                the Division as provided in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.B. upon
                request for transfer of ownership and the submittal of a revised APEN,
                revised general permit registration and the required fees.

      IX.D.3.   Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or operator
                may withdraw or cancel a registration under this general permit at any time
                by notifying the Division in writing. The owner or operator can apply for a
                Construction permit as necessary per Regulation Number 3, Part B.




                                          Page 52 of 54
IX.E. General Permit Revision/Termination

      IX.E.1.   This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
                Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3 or
                through expiration per the provisions of condition I.F.1.

      IX.E.2.   After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3, Part
                B, Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in order to add
                or delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This public notice must
                be conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of Regulation
                Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

      IX.E.3.   If the Division revises this general permit, it will provide written notice to
                affected owner or operators prior to the revision of the general permit.
                The notice will advise the owner or operators that any existing registration
                to use the general permit will be automatically converted to a registration
                to use the revised general permit, provided that the owner or operator
                continues to meet all requirements of the revised general permit. Persons
                not wishing to continue coverage under the revised general permit have the
                option of applying for a Construction Permit as required by Regulation
                Number 3, Part B, or apply for a different general permit, as appropriate.

      IX.E.4.   If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice
                to affected owner or operators prior to the termination of the general
                permit. The notice will advise owner or operators that they must apply for a
                Construction Permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

      IX.E.5.   The Division may require any well production facility authorized by a
                general construction permit to apply for and obtain a Construction Permit if



                                         Page 53 of 54
circumstances have changed since the time of the original general permit
application so that the well production facility is no longer appropriately
controlled and/or permitted under the general construction permit.
(Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.(i)(B))




                        Page 54 of 54
