                                GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

                                           Oil and Gas Industry

                        Routine or Predictable Gas Venting Emissions


        Permit Number GP11 Issuance 3                               Final Approval



                                                                    July 23, 2025


        Bradley Eades, PE                                           Date Issued


        Oil and Gas Permitting Section Supervisor


        Table of Contents

I.      General Permit Applicability                                                                 2

II.     Emission Limitation Requirements                                                             6

III.    Operating Terms and Conditions                                                              11

IV.     Operating and Maintenance Plan                                                              16

V.      Recordkeeping Plan                                                                          18

VI.     Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI) Communities
                                                                                                     19

VII.    General Permit Registration Approval Process                                                20

VIII.   General Permit Terms and Administration                                                     20




                                                 Page 1 of 26
Note: See the Routine or Predictable Gas Venting Emissions Calculation and Instructions on
Permitting for Oil and Gas Operations Guidance document (PS Memo 20-04) for further
information on definitions, and emission calculations.

This permit is granted by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air
Pollution Control Division (Division) subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado Air
Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act
C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general terms and conditions included in this
permit and the following specific terms and conditions:

I.     General Permit Applicability

I.A.   This general permit may be used for any oil and gas industry well production facility
       or centralized production facility, and the associated oil well(s) or natural gas well(s),
       that meets all of the requirements in this Section and that can comply with all of the
       applicable conditions described in this permit.

       I.A.1.    Included Emission Activities: The following emitting activities may register
                 for this general permit:

                 I.A.1.a.   Fixed roof storage tank-related routine or predictable gas venting
                            emissions events that are not separately permitted:

                              ■ releasing emissions from a fixed-roof storage tank through a
                                 storage tank thief hatch, blowdown valve, venting point, or
                                 other access point for any routine or predictable activity,
                                 including for liquid level measurement, sampling, truck
                                 loadout, well unloading, equipment maintenance, repair,
                                 decommissioning, or other routine or predictable activity;
                                 and

                              ■ tank hot oil treatments or other tank cleaning activities.

                 I.A.1.b.   Well-related routine or predictable gas venting emissions events


                                            Page 2 of 26
           that are not separately permitted, including but not limited to:

             ■ well liquids unloading;

             ■ downhole well maintenance, including well workovers,
                recompletion, restimulation, reperforating, paraffin/scale
                removal, swabbing, and installation of artificial lift;

             ■ well equipment maintenance at the surface;

             ■ well plugging;

             ■ bradenhead gas venting;

             ■ casinghead gas venting; and

             ■ other well-related routine or predictable gas venting
                emissions activities.

I.A.1.c.   Pigging-related routine or predictable gas venting emissions that
           are not separately permitted, including, but not limited to:

             ■ pig launchers; and

             ■ pig receivers.

I.A.1.d.   Routine or predictable blowdowns of facility equipment or piping
           that are not separately permitted, including but not limited to:

             ■ pipeline venting within the facility boundary when such
                venting is routine or predictable;

             ■ compressor and turbine blowdowns;

             ■ scrubber and strainer blowdowns;

             ■ blowdowns resulting from facility-wide (plant) and/or


                        Page 3 of 26
                             equipment shutdowns;

                      ■ blowdown of all other equipment (including pipelines,
                             compressor case or cylinders, manifolds, suction bottles,
                             discharge bottles, and vessels); and

                      ■ desiccant dehydration unit blowdowns.

               I.A.1.d.(i)      Emissions resulting from blowdowns from facility
                                equipment or piping where the physical volume between
                                isolation valves is less than 50 cubic feet are not
                                required to be reported or permitted with this category.

         I.A.1.e.   Combustion devices, vapor recovery units, catalysts, or other
                    Division-approved air pollution control equipment used to reduce
                    emissions (from the emitting activities registered under this
                    general permit) below the limits specified in Section II.

I.A.2.   Excluded Sources: The following types of facilities, facility classifications,
         and emitting activities may not register for this general permit:

         I.A.2.a.   A natural gas processing plant.

         I.A.2.b.   A natural gas compressor station.

         I.A.2.c.   A petroleum refinery.

         I.A.2.d.   A facility that is a major source as defined in Regulation Number
                    3, Part A, Section I.B.30., except as provided by Section I.A.3.
                    below.

         I.A.2.e.   A facility that is a major stationary source as defined in
                    Regulation Number 3, Part D, Section II.A.25., except as provided
                    by Section I.A.3. below.

         I.A.2.f.   Emissions at a storage tank that are not listed in Section I.A.1.a.

                                     Page 4 of 26
                            of this general permit.

                 I.A.2.g.   Venting emissions from a storage tank that are prohibited by
                            Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.2.a.

                 I.A.2.h.   This general permit may not be used for newly constructed or
                            modified existing equipment that is part of a project permit
                            action that is subject to Non-Attainment New Source Review (NA
                            NSR) or Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permitting
                            under Regulation Number 3, Part D.

       I.A.3.    Stationary Sources that: a) became subject to Title V Operating Permit
                 requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source due
                 to the reclassification of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area from serious to
                 severe, and b) for which a complete GP11 registration request was received
                 by the Division prior to the effective date of GP11, Issuance 2 (November 3,
                 2022), may continue to operate under this General Permit. 8-hour Ozone
                 Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.1.
                 (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024).

       I.A.4.    Stationary Sources that became subject to Title V Operating Permit
                 requirements or became classified as an existing major stationary source for
                 which a GP11 registration request was deemed complete by the Division
                 prior to the effective date (July 24, 2024) on which Northern Weld County
                 was re- classified from moderate to serious may continue to operate under
                 this General Permit. Northern Weld County is as defined in Regulation
                 Number 7, Part A, Section II.A.3. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
                 02/14/2024).

I.B.   This general permit applies only to the oil and gas facility and the emitting activities
       described in Section I.A for which the operator has registered under this general
       permit using an Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) Form APCD-213 and APCD-215, as
       needed. Emissions sources that do not fall into the activities described in Section I.A

                                          Page 5 of 26
        at the same stationary source must be permitted separately as required by Regulation
        Number 3, Part B.

II.     Emission Limitation Requirements

II.A.   General Permit Emission Limitations

        II.A.1.   Actual emissions from the sum of all of the emitting activities registered
                  under this general permit must not exceed the requested federally
                  enforceable annual emission limitations (tons per year) as listed on the
                  general permit registration approval letter, or if an approval letter has not
                  been issued, as certified by the owner or operator in the APEN included
                  with the general permit registration. (Regulation Number 3, Part B, Sections
                  II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

        II.A.2.   For emitting activities registered under this general permit that are
                  registered with a control efficiency, the owner or operator must conduct
                  the activities with the air pollution control equipment as listed in the
                  general permit registration APEN to reduce emissions to less than or equal
                  to the requested federally enforceable annual emission limitations (tons per
                  year) as listed on the general permit registration approval letter, or if an
                  approval letter has not been issued, as certified by the owner or operator in
                  the general permit registration APEN. (Regulation Number 3, Part B,
                  Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.)

                  II.A.2.a. For a combustion device controlling routine or predictable gas
                             venting emissions, the maximum allowed control efficiency is 95%.

II.B.   Facility-Wide Emission Limitations

        II.B.1.   For facilities located inside of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area (8-hour
                  Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section
                  II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024)):



                                           Page 6 of 26
II.B.1.a. The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from
          all APEN-reportable emissions points at the same stationary
          source (including the routine or predictable gas venting emissions
          registered to this permit) shall be federally enforceable and must
          not exceed the following limitations (Regulation Number 3, Part
          B, Section II.A.4):

            ■ Particulate Matter (PM):                        90.0 tons per year

            ■ Particulate Matter (PM10):                      90.0 tons per year

            ■ Particulate Matter (PM2.5):                     90.0 tons per year

            ■ Sulfur Dioxide (SO2):                           90.0 tons per year

            ■ Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                          45.0 tons per year

            ■ Carbon Monoxide (CO):                           90.0 tons per year

            ■ Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):               45.0 tons per year

                For sources that are also subject to Condition II.B.4. or
                II.B.5., the owner or operator must comply with the most
                stringent limits for each pollutant.

II.B.1.b. If the permitted facility-wide emissions at the same stationary
          source (including the routine or predictable gas venting emissions
          registered under this permit) of VOC and/or NOx exceeds 40.0
          tons per year, the owner or operator must track emissions from
          all insignificant activities at the facility on an annual basis to
          demonstrate compliance with the facility emission limitations as
          indicated below. An inventory of each insignificant activity and
          associated emission calculations must be made available to the
          Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes of this
          condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or

                        Page 7 of 26
                    equipment, which emits any amount but does not require an Air
                    Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) or is permit exempt. (Regulation
                    Number 3, Part C. Section II.E.)

                    For all facilities located inside of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area
                    (8-hour Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7,
                    Part A, Section II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective
                    02/14/2024)), total potential emissions from the facility,
                    including all permitted emissions and potential to emit from all
                    insignificant activities, must be less than:

                      ■ 50 tons per year of VOC; and

                      ■ 50 tons per year of NOx.

II.B.2.   For facilities located outside of the 8-hour Ozone Control Area (8-hour
          Ozone Control Area is as defined in Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section
          II.A.1. (Adopted 12/14/2023, Effective 02/14/2024)):

          II.B.2.a. The maximum allowable emissions of criteria air pollutants from
                    all APEN-reportable emissions points at the same stationary
                    source (including the routine or predictable gas venting emissions
                    registered to this permit) must be federally enforceable and must
                    not exceed the following limitations (Regulation Number 3, Part
                    B, Section II.A.4):

                         Particulate Matter (PM):                 90.0 tons per year

                         Particulate Matter (PM10):               90.0 tons per year

                         Particulate Matter (PM2.5):              90.0 tons per year

                         Sulfur Dioxide (SO2):                    90.0 tons per year

                         Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                   90.0 tons per year


                                  Page 8 of 26
                          Carbon Monoxide (CO):                     90.0 tons per year

                          Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):         90.0 tons per year

                           For sources that are also subject to Condition II.B.4. or
                           II.B.5., the owner or operator must comply with the most
                           stringent limits for each pollutant.

II.B.3.   The maximum allowable emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) from
          all emissions points at the stationary source are federally enforceable and
          must not exceed the following limitations (Regulation Number 3, Part B,
          Sections II.A.4. and II.A.7.):

                       ■ Each Individual HAP:                            8.0 tons per year

                       ■ Combined total of all HAPs:                    20.0 tons per year

II.B.4.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as serious
          nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to Conditions
          I.A.3. or I.A.4. of this permit, must track potential emissions from all
          insignificant activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate
          compliance with facility emission limitations as indicated below. An inventory
          of each insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be
          made available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes
          of this condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or
          equipment, which emits any amount of VOC or NOx but does not require an
          APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing
          nonattainment area to serious, the limit applies upon the effective date of
          reclassification. (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.).




                                   Page 9 of 26
                  II.B.4.a. Total point source potential emissions from the facility, including all
                           permitted emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant
                           activities, must be less than:

                                 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):           50 tons per year

                                 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                      50 tons per year

        II.B.5.   The owner or operator of facilities located in an area classified as severe
                  nonattainment for ozone, and which are not otherwise subject to Conditions
                  I.A.3. or I.A.4. of this permit, must track potential emissions from all
                  insignificant activities at the facility on an annual basis to demonstrate
                  compliance with facility emission limitations as indicated below. An inventory
                  of each insignificant activity and associated emission calculations must be
                  made available to the Division for inspection upon request. For the purposes
                  of this condition, insignificant activities are defined as any activity or
                  equipment, which emits any amount of VOC or NOx but does not require an
                  APEN or is permit exempt. Note that for reclassifications of an existing
                  nonattainment area to severe, the limit applies upon the effective date of
                  reclassification. (Regulation Number 3, Part B. Section III.E.)

                  II.B.5.a. Total potential emissions from the facility, including all permitted
                             emissions and potential to emit from all insignificant activities,
                             must be less than:

                           Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC):                     25 tons per year

                           Nitrogen Oxides (NOx):                                25 tons per year

II.C.   Emission Limitations and Facility-Wide Emission Limitations for both criteria and
        hazardous air pollutants must be determined on an annual calendar-year basis. The
        permit holder must keep a compliance record on-site or at a local field office for
        Division review.



                                          Page 10 of 26
II.D.   For sources located at synthetic minor or major facilities, compliance with the
        General Permit Emission Limitations and Facility-Wide Emission Limitations for both
        criteria and hazardous air pollutants must be determined on a rolling twelve (12)
        month total basis. By the end of each month, a new twelve-month total is calculated
        based on the previous twelve month’s data. During the first year of operation,
        compliance must be based upon cumulative emissions from all months of operation.
        The permit holder must calculate actual emissions each month and keep a compliance
        record on-site or at a local field office for Division review.

III.    Operating Terms and Conditions

III.A. Emission Calculation Methods

        III.A.1.   Emissions must be calculated using the emission factors as shown on the
                   GP11 registration approval letter most recently issued by the Division. If a
                   GP11 registration approval letter has not yet been issued, emissions must be
                   calculated using the emission factors as certified by the owner or operator
                   in the general permit registration APEN.

        III.A.2.   The owner or operator must monitor and record the data necessary to
                   quantify the emissions for each category listed in this permit. These records
                   of the events must be maintained in accordance with the Recordkeeping
                   Plan specified in Section V.

                   III.A.2.a. For sources calculating emissions using a lb/event emission factor,
                             the owner or operator must monitor and record the number of
                             routine or predictable gas venting emissions events that occur for
                             each activity type registered to this permit.

                   III.A.2.b. For sources calculating emissions using a lb/MMscf emission
                             factor, the owner or operator must:

                               ■ Monitor and record the parameters required to calculate the
                                   volume associated with each routine or predictable gas

                                           Page 11 of 26
                                     venting emission event, as specified in the general permit
                                     registration approval letter, or

                               ■ Monitor and record the volume associated with each routine
                                     or predictable gas venting emission event using a flow
                                     meter.

      III.A.3.   For each routine or predictable gas venting emissions activity registered
                 under this general permit, actual emissions must be calculated using the
                 emission factors from III.A.1. and the data from III.A.2.

III.B. General Operating Conditions

      III.B.1.   The owner or operator must comply with opacity requirements in Regulation
                 Number 1, Section II.A., as applicable per the most current version of
                 Regulation Number 1.

      III.B.2.   This source is subject to the odor requirements of Regulation Number 2.

      III.B.3.   Air pollution control equipment may be used to comply with the emission
                 limits and performance standards required in this general permit. The
                 owner or operator must maintain documentation of all periods when air
                 pollution control equipment is not operating and must use the information
                 to determine appropriate control percentages in calculating actual
                 emissions. During periods where air pollution control equipment is not
                 operating, emissions must be calculated as uncontrolled.

      III.B.4.   If air pollution control equipment is used to comply with the emission limits
                 of this permit, the owner or operator must follow the Operating and
                 Maintenance Plan specified in Section IV. (Regulation Number 3, Part B,
                 Section III.I.6.)

      III.B.5.   The owner or operator must maintain records in accordance with the
                 Recordkeeping Plan specified in Section V.


                                              Page 12 of 26
III.B.6.   The owner or operator must use best management practices to minimize
           hydrocarbon emissions during, or to reduce the frequency of, routine or
           predictable gas venting emissions events.

           III.B.6.a. The owner and operator must develop and maintain a description
                      of best management practices implemented to minimize
                      hydrocarbon emissions during, or to reduce the frequency of,
                      routine or predictable gas venting events covered by this permit.
                      The description must also include how those best management
                      practices are implemented and performed.

III.B.7.   The owner or operator must perform routine or predictable gas venting
           emissions activities between October 1 and April 30, when practicable.

III.B.8.   The owner or operator must avoid performing routine or predictable gas
           venting emissions activities on Ozone Action Days, when practicable. Ozone
           Action Day advisories are published by the Colorado Department of Public
           Health and Environment.

III.B.9.   For downhole well maintenance, well liquids unloading events, and well
           plugging activities:

           III.B.9.a. Owners or operators must use best management practices to
                      minimize hydrocarbon emissions and the need for emissions from
                      the well associated with downhole well maintenance, well liquids
                      unloading, and well plugging, unless emitting is necessary for
                      safety. (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.G.1.)

                 III.B.9.a.(i)    Prior to January 1, 2023, during liquids unloading events,
                                  any means of creating differential pressure must first
                                  be used to attempt to unload the liquids from the well
                                  without emitting. If these methods are not successful in
                                  unloading the liquids from the well, the well may emit in


                                      Page 13 of 26
             order to create the necessary differential pressure to
             bring the liquids to the surface. (Regulation Number 7,
             Part B, Section II.G.1.a)

III.B.9.a.(ii) The owner or operator must be present on-site during
             any planned downhole well maintenance, well liquids
             unloading, or well plugging event and must ensure that
             any emissions from the well associated with the event
             are limited to the maximum extent practicable.
             (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.G.1.b)

III.B.9.a.(iii) Beginning January 1, 2023, for all downhole well
             maintenance and well liquids unloading activities with
             emissions to atmosphere, owners or operators must,
             consistent with well site conditions and good engineering
             practices (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.G.1.c):

                 •   Use best engineering practices in the design and
                     construction of oil and gas wells and well
                     production facilities that commence operation
                     after January 1, 2023, to minimize the need for
                     well liquids unloading with emissions to
                     atmosphere and other downhole well maintenance
                     as the well ages.

                 •   Attempt to create differential pressure to unload
                     the liquids from the well without emitting.

                 •   Monitor wellhead pressure and/or flowrate of the
                     vented natural gas.

                 •   Equalize the wellhead pressure with the
                     production separator pressure prior to conducting


                  Page 14 of 26
                                    unloading, swabbing, or maintenance activities,
                                    when practicable.

                                •   Close wellhead vents to the atmosphere or
                                    otherwise end direct emission of natural gas to
                                    atmosphere as soon as practicable.

                                •   Minimize emissions to atmosphere from well
                                    liquids unloading and well swabbing, through the
                                    installation, use, and optimization of artificial lift,
                                    such as plunger lift with smart automation, except
                                    as provided in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                                    Sections II.G.1.c.(vi)(A) through II.G.1.c.(vi)(D)

         III.B.9.a.(iv)     Beginning January 1, 2023, unless exempted in
                            Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections II.G.1.d.(i) or
                            II.G.1.d.(ii), owners or operators must use capture and
                            recovery techniques or install and use a control device to
                            achieve at least 95% control of hydrocarbon emissions
                            during well liquids unloading and well swabbing
                            operations. Notwithstanding any provision in Section II.B.
                            to the contrary, owners or operators may use open flares
                            and portable combustion devices to comply with this
                            Section II.G.1.d. (Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
                            II.G.1.d)

III.B.10. The owner or operator, or authorized third party representative, must:

            ● Comply with storage tank measurement system requirements of
               Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.4. if the facility meets the
               applicability criteria of Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.4.a.;

            ● Comply with storage tank hydrocarbon liquids loadout requirements of


                                 Page 15 of 26
                       Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a. if the facility meets the
                       applicability criteria of Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.5.a.;

                   ● Remain on site while a storage tank thief hatch is open if there are
                       liquids in the tank, if the thief hatch was opened to perform routine
                       or predictable emitting activities; and

                   ● Minimize the duration of time the thief hatch is open during activities
                       to determine the quality and/or quantity of storage tank contents.

      III.B.11. For pigging-related activities, the owner or operator must install, operate
                 and maintain a liquids handling system to remove any accumulated liquid
                 prior to pig receiver depressurization.

      III.B.12. For equipment blowdowns, the owner or operator must avoid blowing down
                 the equipment completely to ambient pressure, where practicable.

      III.B.13. Conditions III.B.6. through III.B.12. fulfill the requirements to apply
                 Reasonably Available Control Technology of Regulation Number 3, Part B,
                 Section III.D.2.

IV.   Operating and Maintenance Plan

IV.A. If air pollution control equipment is used to comply with the emission limits of this
      permit, the owner or operator must comply with the following requirements:

      IV.A.1.    Air pollution control equipment must be adequately designed and sized to
                 achieve the control efficiency rates and to handle reasonably foreseeable
                 fluctuations in gas quantity and/or composition during emitting activities.
                 Additionally, the air pollution control equipment must be operated and
                 maintained consistent with manufacturer specifications and good
                 engineering and maintenance practices. The owner or operator must keep
                 manufacturer specifications or equivalent on file for Division review.

      IV.A.2.    If a combustion device is used to comply with the emission limits of this

                                         Page 16 of 26
          permit, it must have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98% for
          hydrocarbons, and must achieve a hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%.

IV.A.3.   If an enclosed combustion device or open flare is used to control emissions
          of VOCs and other hydrocarbons, it must be equipped with and operate an
          auto-igniter, have no visible emissions during normal operation, and be
          designed so that an observer can, by means of visual observation from the
          outside of the enclosed combustion device, or by other means approved by
          the Division, determine whether it is operating properly.

IV.A.4.   During air pollution control equipment use, the owner or operator must
          monitor proper operation of the air pollution control equipment. This
          monitoring must occur at least once each day that air pollution control
          equipment is in use to control the emitting activities registered under this
          general permit.

          IV.A.4.a. Indications of improper operation for combustion devices can
                    include, but are not limited to, absence of auto-igniter or pilot
                    light, malfunction of electronic ignition, valves for piping of pilot
                    gas or waste gas to the control device not being open, or presence
                    of smoke. A check box is suitable for recording proper operation.

          IV.A.4.b. Improper operation of air pollution control equipment must be
                    further documented with a description of the problem and its
                    resolution, the date range the control equipment was inoperable,
                    and the uncontrolled mass of emissions during the downtime.

          IV.A.4.c. Inspections can be done by either visible observation or other
                    means approved by the Division.

IV.A.5.   For each separate air pollution control equipment, the owner or operator
          must keep an air pollution control equipment maintenance log. The log
          must display the date, time, and nature of each air pollution control


                                  Page 17 of 26
                 equipment maintenance activity. The air pollution control equipment
                 maintenance log may also be located at a local office or electronically, and
                 must be made available to the Division upon request.

V.     Recordkeeping Plan

V.A.   The following records must be maintained on site or at a local field office with site
       responsibility for Division review:

       V.A.1.    The current issuance of this general construction permit.

       V.A.2.    The most recent general permit registration approval letter, once received.

       V.A.3.    The APEN most recently submitted to the Division and any required site-
                 specific emission factor documentation.

       V.A.4.    Records of actual emissions from all emitting activities. This must include
                 the most currently available emitting activity data necessary to calculate
                 emissions, and documentation of all periods of control device downtime for
                 emitting activities where a control device is used to comply with the
                 emission limits of this permit.

                 V.A.4.a. For sources located at true minor facilities, actual emissions must
                            be calculated on an annual calendar-year basis.

                 V.A.4.b. For sources located at synthetic minor or major facilities, actual
                            emissions must be calculated on a rolling twelve (12) month total.
                            By the end of each month, the actual emissions for that month
                            are calculated and a new twelve-month total is calculated based
                            on the previous twelve months of emission data.

       V.A.5.    For downhole well maintenance, well liquids unloading events, and well
                 plugging, the records and reporting required by Regulation Number 7, Part
                 B, Sections II.G.2 and II.G.3.



                                             Page 18 of 26
       V.A.6.      The air pollution control equipment maintenance log for each control
                   device if air pollution control equipment is used to comply with the
                   emission limits of this permit.

       V.A.7.      Description of the best management practices used to minimize
                   hydrocarbon emissions or to reduce the frequency of routine or predictable
                   gas venting emissions, including how those best management practices are
                   implemented and performed.

       V.A.8.      Any other records required by conditions of this permit.

V.B.   Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy, provided that they can
       be promptly supplied to the Division upon request. All records must be retained for a
       period of five (5) years.

VI.    Monitoring Requirements for Facilities located in Disproportionately Impacted (DI)
       Communities

VI.A. Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in Disproportionately Impacted
       Communities must submit a notification at the time of registration for a general permit
       or permits issued pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.I. indicating the
       source will comply with the monitoring requirements outlined in Regulation Number 3,
       Part B, Section III.J., as applicable, by either:

       VI.A.1.     Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to Section III.J.2. of Part
                   B;

       VI.A.2.     Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section III.J.3. of Part B; or

       VI.A.3.     Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant to Section III.J.4.
                   of Part B.

                 Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring methodology selected on
                 the general permit registration form.



                                           Page 19 of 26
VI.B. Owners or operators subject to VI.A.1 must submit a Division-approved source-specific
        monitoring plan as part of a complete registration request. (Regulation Number 3, Part
        B, III.E.)

VII.    General Permit Registration Approval Process

VII.A. Conditional certification of a registration under this general permit is effective from
        the date the registration is deemed complete as indicated in Condition VII.B. A
        complete registration request consists of all General Permit application materials
        required by the Division and associated fees. The owner or operator may commence
        construction and operation of the emitting activities as represented in the registration
        once the registration is deemed complete. In the event the source does not qualify for
        registration under the general permit the owner or operator accepts the liability of
        commencing these activities.

VII.B. The Division will determine completeness of the General Permit registration request
        within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the request and provide written
        notification to the applicant. If the applicant does not receive notification of a
        completeness determination from the Division within sixty (60) days, the General
        Permit registration request will be deemed complete for the purpose of Conditions
        VII.A and VII.B.

VII.C. The Division has ninety (90) calendar days from the date the Division receives a
        complete General Permit registration request to provide the applicant with a written
        approval or denial of the registration.

VIII.   General Permit Terms and Administration

VIII.A. A facility that is classified as a major source for Title V Operating Permit
        requirements and is operating under Condition I.A.2.h must submit a Title V permit
        application requesting to incorporate the terms of this general permit into a Title V
        Operating Permit. The due date for this application is one year from the date on
        which the facility becomes subject to Title V Operating Permit requirements.


                                          Page 20 of 26
VIII.B. In accordance with Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C.5, some or all
      of the monitoring specified in this general permit will be incorporated as specific
      conditions in the source’s Title V Operating Permit (if applicable). Additional
      monitoring not listed in this general permit may be included in the source’s Operating
      Permit in order to satisfy the periodic monitoring requirements of Section V.C.5.b.

VIII.C. General Terms

      VIII.C.1. A revised APEN must be filed: (Reference: Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                Section II.C.)


                 VIII.C.1.a. Annually by April 30th of the year following a significant
                              increase in emissions as follows:

                              ■ For VOC, a change in actual emissions of five (5) tons per
                                 year or more, above the level reported on the last APEN; or

                              ■ For volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides sources
                                 in ozone non-attainment areas, a change in annual actual
                                 emissions of one ton per year or more or five percent,
                                 whichever is greater, above the level reported on the last
                                 APEN submitted to the Division; or

                              ■ For any non-criteria reportable pollutant, if the emissions
                                 increase by 50% or five (5) tons per year, whichever is less,
                                 above the level reported on the last APEN.

                VIII.C.1.b.   Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any
                              facility, process, or activity; or

                VIII.C.1.c.   Whenever new control equipment is installed, or whenever a
                              different type of control equipment replaces an existing type of
                              control equipment; or



                                         Page 21 of 26
          VIII.C.1.d.   Whenever a permit limitation must be modified; or

          VIII.C.1.e.   No later than 30 days before the existing APEN expires.

VIII.C.2. The submittal of an APEN requesting a GP11 registration satisfies the
          requirement for the applicant to give notice to the Division for the
          commencement of operation. (Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
          III.G.1.)

VIII.C.3. The requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part D apply at such time that
          any stationary source or modification becomes a major stationary source or
          major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in any enforceable
          limitation that was established after August 7, 1980 on the capacity of the
          source or modification to otherwise emit a pollutant, such as a restriction
          on hours of operation. (Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections V.A.7.b. and
          VI.B.4.)

VIII.C.4. Sources covered by this General Permit are subject to the Common
          Provisions Regulation Part II, Subpart E, Affirmative Defense Provision for
          Excess Emissions During Malfunctions. The owner or operator must notify
          the Division of any malfunction condition which causes a violation of any
          emission limit or limits stated in this permit as soon as possible, but no later
          than noon of the next working day, followed by written notice to the
          Division addressing all of the criteria set forth in Part II.E.1 of the Common
          Provisions Regulation.

VIII.C.5. This permit is granted subject to all rules and regulations of the Colorado
          Air Quality Control Commission and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
          And Control Act C.R.S., sections 25-7-101, et seq, to those general and
          specific terms and conditions included in this document.

VIII.C.6. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the general and specific conditions
          contained in this permit have been determined by the Division to be


                                   Page 22 of 26
                necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of §25-7-114.5(7)(a),
                C.R.S.

      VIII.C.7. Each and every condition of this permit is a material part hereof and is not
                severable. Any challenge to or appeal of a condition herein by the
                permittee will constitute a rejection of the entire permit and upon such
                occurrence, this permit must be deemed denied ab initio.

      VIII.C.8. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a), C.R.S. requires that all sources required to file an
                Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) must pay an annual fee to cover the
                costs of inspections and administration.

      VIII.C.9. Violation of the terms of a permit or of the provisions of the Colorado Air
                Pollution Prevention and Control Act or the regulations of the AQCC may
                result in administrative, civil or criminal enforcement actions under §§25-7-
                115 (enforcement), -121 (injunctions), -122 (civil penalties), -122.1
                (criminal penalties), C.R.S.

      VIII.C.10. Registration under this permit is approved in reliance upon the accuracy and
                completeness of information supplied by the owner or operator and is
                conditioned upon operation of the source in accordance with this
                information and with representations made by the owner or operator or
                owner or operator's agents. It is valid only for the equipment and operations
                or activity specifically identified on the general permit registration.

VIII.D. Registration Revision/Termination

      VIII.D.1. The Division may deny or revoke registration under the general permit
                under the circumstances specified in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                III.I.3.c. and require the owner or operator to apply for a construction
                permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.

      VIII.D.2. A registration under this general permit may be reissued to a new owner by
                the Division as provided in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.B. upon

                                        Page 23 of 26
                request for transfer of ownership and the submittal of a revised APEN,
                revised general permit registration and the required fees.

      VIII.D.3. Registration under this general permit is voluntary. The owner or operator
                may withdraw or cancel a registration under this general permit at any time
                by notifying the Division in writing. The owner or operator can apply for a
                construction permit as necessary per Regulation Number 3, Part B.

VIII.E. General Permit Revision/Termination

      VIII.E.1. This general permit remains in effect until revised or terminated by the
                Division in accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3.

      VIII.E.2. After public notice and comment as provided by Regulation Number 3, Part
                B, Section III.I.7., the Division may revise this general permit in order to add
                or delete requirements or limitations to the permit. This public notice must
                be conducted in a manner consistent with the provisions of Regulation
                Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

      VIII.E.3. If the Division revises this general permit, it will provide written notice to
                affected owners or operators prior to the revision of the general permit.
                The notice will advise the owner or operators that any existing registration
                to use the general permit will be automatically converted to a registration
                to use the revised general permit, provided that the owner or operator
                continues to meet all requirements of the revised general permit. Persons
                not wishing to continue coverage under the revised general permit have the
                option of applying for a Construction Permit as required by Regulation
                Number 3, Part B, or apply for a different general permit, as appropriate.

      VIII.E.4. If the Division terminates this general permit, it will provide written notice
                to affected owners or operators prior to the termination of the general
                permit. The notice will advise the owner or operators that they must apply
                for a Construction Permit as required by Regulation Number 3, Part B.


                                        Page 24 of 26
       VIII.E.5. The Division may require any oil and gas facility authorized by a general
                 construction permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit if
                 circumstances have changed since the time of the original general permit
                 application so that the oil and gas facility is no longer appropriately
                 controlled and/or permitted under the general permit. (Regulation Number
                 3, Part B, Section III.I.3.c.(i)(B))

Permit History


                 Issuance         Date                     Description


                 Issuance 1        4 December 2020         Initial issuance


                 Issuance 2        3 November               Revised to address the 8-hour Ozone
                                  2022                      Control Area re-classification from
                                                            serious to severe for existing
                                                            registrations


                 Issuance 3       This Issuance             Revised to address:

                                                                •   Revised to address Northern
                                                                    Weld County Area re-
                                                                    classification from moderate to
                                                                    serious for existing registrations,

                                                                •   Revisions to Air Quality Control
                                                                    Commission (AQCC) Regulation
                                                                    Number 7, including, new
                                                                    requirements and restructuring
                                                                    of the regulation;




                                           Page 25 of 26
Issuance   Date                   Description

                                      •   Revisions to facility-wide
                                          limitations;

                                      •   Revisions to General Permit
                                          registration approval process.




                  Page 26 of 26
