CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado



    Department of Public Health and Environment

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 7
    CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM OIL AND GAS EMISSIONS OPERATIONS

    5 CCR 1001-9

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A         Applicability and General Provisions

           I.      Applicability

           II.     General Provisions

    Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas

    PART B         Oil and Natural Gas Operations

           I.      Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Oil and Gas Operations

           II.     (State Only) Statewide Controls for Oil and Gas Operations

           III.    (State Only) Natural Gas-Actuated Pneumatic Controllers and Pneumatic
                   Pumps Associated with Oil and Gas Operations

           IV.     (State Only) Control of Emissions from Natural Gas Transmission and
                   Storage Segment

           V.      (State Only) Oil and Natural Gas Operations Emissions Inventory

           VI.     (State Only) Oil and Natural Gas Pre-Production, Early-Production, and
                   Production Operations

           VII.    (State Only) Reduction of Emissions from Oil and Natural Gas Midstream
                   Segment Fuel Combustion Equipment

           VIII.   (State Only) Greenhouse Gas Intensity Program for Oil and Natural Gas
                   Upstream Segment

    PART C         Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose


                                                                                            1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

_____________________________________________________________________

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes § 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated by
reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. The
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
later amendments.

PART A        Applicability and General Provisions
I.     Applicability
I.A.

       I.A.1. The provisions of this regulation shall apply as follows:

              I.A.1.a. All provisions of this regulation apply to the Denver 1-hour ozone
                       attainment/maintenance area, to any nonattainment area for the
                       1-hour ozone standard, to the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and to
                       northern Weld County.

              I.A.1.b. (State Only) All provisions of this regulation apply to any ozone
                       nonattainment area, which includes areas designated
                       nonattainment for either the 1-hour or 8-hour ozone standard,
                       unless otherwise specified in Section I.A.1.c. Colorado’s ozone
                       nonattainment or attainment maintenance area maps and
                       chronologies of attainment status are identified in Appendix A of
                       this regulation.

              I.A.1.c. The provisions of Part B, Sections II., III., IV., V., VI. except VI.E.,
                       VII., and VIII. apply statewide. The provisions of Part B, Sections
                       II., through VIII. and any other sections marked by (State Only)
                       are not federally enforceable, unless otherwise identified.

       I.A.2. REPEALED


                                                                                                  2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        I.A.3. REPEALED

II.     General Provisions
II.A.   Definitions

        II.A.1. “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe,
               Boulder (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and
               Jefferson; the Cities and Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the
               following portions of the Counties of Larimer and Weld:

               II.A.1.a. For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain National
                       Park), that portion of the county that lies south of a line described
                       as follows: Beginning at a point on Larimer County’s eastern
                       boundary and Weld County’s western boundary intersected by 40
                       degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude, proceed
                       west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees, 42
                       minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29
                       minutes, and 40.0 seconds west longitude, thence proceed south
                       on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west longitude to the
                       intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north
                       latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4
                       seconds north latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s
                       western boundary and Grand County’s eastern boundary.

               II.A.1.b. For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of a line
                       described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s
                       eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
                       intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
                       latitude, proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds
                       north latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western
                       boundary and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.

        II.A.2. “Denver 1-Hour Ozone Attainment/Maintenance Area” means the Counties
               of Jefferson and Douglas, the Cities and Counties of Denver and
               Broomfield, Boulder County (excluding Rocky Mountain National Park),


                                                                                               3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              Adams County west of Kiowa Creek, and Arapahoe County west of Kiowa
              Creek.

        II.A.3. “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does not lie
              south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s
              eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary intersected by
              40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude, proceed west on 40
              degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until this line intersects
              Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.

        II.A.4. “Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)” means any compound of carbon,
              excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic
              carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in
              atmospheric photochemical reactions, except those listed in Section II.B.
              as having negligible photochemical reactivity. VOC may be measured by a
              reference method, an equivalent method, an alternative method, or by
              procedures specified under 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2025). A reference
              method, an equivalent method, or an alternative method, however, may
              also measure nonreactive organic compounds. In such cases, an owner or
              operator may exclude the compounds listed in Section II.B. when
              determining compliance with a standard if the amount of such compounds
              is accurately quantified, and such exclusion is approved by the Division.
              As a precondition to excluding such compounds as VOC, or at any time
              thereafter, the Division may require an owner or operator to provide
              monitoring or testing methods and results demonstrating, to the
              satisfaction of the Division, the amount of negligible-reactive compounds
              in the source's emissions.

II.B.   Exemptions

Emissions of the organic compounds listed as having negligible photochemical reactivity
in the common provisions definition of Negligibly Reactive Volatile Organic Compound
are exempt from the provisions of this regulation. However, the hydrocarbon threshold
in Part B, Section I.L. and natural gas emissions standards in Part B, Sections III.C.1.


                                                                                            4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

and III.C.2. are used as indicators for the volatile organic compound emission reduction
measures in Part B, Sections I.L., III.C.1., and III.C.2., and are enforceable provisions of
this regulation.

(State Only) Notwithstanding the foregoing exemption, hydrocarbon emissions from oil
and gas operations, including methane and ethane, are subject to this regulation as set
forth in Part B.

II.C.   New Sources

        All new sources shall utilize controls representing RACT, pursuant to applicable
        provisions in Regulation Number 7, Regulation Number 24, Regulation Number
        25, Regulation Number 26 and Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D., upon
        commencement of operation.

II.D.   Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods

        II.D.1. Sources subject to specific requirements of this regulation shall submit for
               approval as a revision to the State Implementation Plan:

               II.D.1.a. Any alternative emission control plan or compliance method other
                        than control options specifically allowed in the applicable
                        regulation. Such alternative control plans shall provide control
                        equal to or greater than the emission control or reduction required
                        by the regulation, unless the source contends that the control level
                        required by the regulation does not represent RACT for their
                        specific source.

               II.D.1.b. Any alternative test method or procedure not specifically allowed
                        in the applicable regulation.

        II.D.2. No alternative submitted pursuant to this Section II.D. is effective until the
               alternative is approved as a revision to the State Implementation Plan.

Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas
I.      Chronology of Attainment Status

Denver Metropolitan Area Only



                                                                                                 5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

1978 Denver 1-hour Ozone Nonattainment Area designation first becomes effective in
      7-county Denver Metropolitan Area

10/11/01     Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area designation replaces
      non-attainment designation and becomes effective in 7-county Denver
      Metropolitan Area

9/2/05 1-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is Revoked in Colorado
      except for the Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area.

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range

10/11/01     1-hour attainment maintenance area replaces non-attainment designation
      for the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range Area

4/15/04      EPA designates the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range region as an 8-
      hour ozone non-attainment area, designation deferred due to the implementation
      of the Early Action Compact

11/20/07     Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (1997 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

7/20/2012    Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (2008 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

8/3/2018     Denver 8-hour ozone nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) becomes
      effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

12/31/2021 EPA modification of the 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 8-hour ozone
      nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) to include the portion of northern Weld
      County defined in Part A

II.   Maps




                                                                                     6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range (2008 Ozone NAAQS)




                                                                        7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range and northern Weld County (2015
ozone NAAQS)




                                                                           8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

PART B        Oil and Natural Gas Operations
I.     Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Oil and Gas Operations
I.A.   Applicability

       I.A.1. Except as provided in Section I.A.4., this section applies to oil and gas
              operations that collect, store, or handle hydrocarbon liquids or produced
              water in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and that are located at or
              upstream of a natural gas plant.

       I.A.2. Except as provided in Section I.A.4., beginning February 14, 2023, this
              section applies to oil and gas operations that collect, store, or handle
              hydrocarbon liquids or produced water in northern Weld County and that
              are located at or upstream of a natural gas plant.

       I.A.3. Beginning February 14, 2023, this section applies to centralized oil
              stabilization facilities that emit or have the potential to emit VOC emissions
              greater than or equal to 25 tpy as of November 7, 2022, located in the 8-
              Hour Ozone Control Area.

       I.A.4. Beginning February 14, 2023, Sections I.B. through I.F. and I.M. apply to
              class II disposal well facilities that emit or have the potential to emit VOC
              emissions greater than or equal to 25 tpy as of November 7, 2022, located
              in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area.

       I.A.5. Beginning January 14, 2026, Section I.L. applies to transmission and
              storage segment facilities that emit or have the potential to emit VOC
              emissions greater than or equal to 50 tpy as of July 24, 2024, located in
              northern Weld County.

       I.A.6. Oil refineries are not subject to Section I.

I.B.   Definitions specific to Section I.

       I.B.1. “Affected Operations” means oil and gas exploration and production
              operations, natural gas compressor stations and natural gas drip stations,
              to which Section I. applies.



                                                                                              9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.2. “Air Pollution Control Equipment”, as used in Section I., means a
            combustion device or vapor recovery unit. Air pollution control equipment
            also means alternative emissions control equipment, pollution prevention
            devices, and processes that comply with the requirements of Section
            I.D.4. that are approved by the Division.

     I.B.3. “Approved Instrument Monitoring Method” means an infra-red camera,
            EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017), or other instrument based monitoring
            method or program approved in accordance with Section I.L.8. If an owner
            or operator elects to use Division approved continuous emission
            monitoring, the Division may approve a streamlined inspection,
            recordkeeping, and reporting program for such operations.

     I.B.4. “Atmospheric Storage Tanks or Atmospheric Condensate Storage Tanks”
            means a type of condensate storage tank that vents, or is designed to
            vent, to the atmosphere.

     I.B.5. “Auto-Igniter” means a device which will automatically attempt to relight
            the pilot flame in the combustion chamber of a control device in order to
            combust volatile organic compound emissions.

     I.B.6. “Calendar Week” means a week beginning with Sunday and ending with
            Saturday.

     I.B.7. “Class II Disposal Well Facility” means a facility that injects underground
            fluids which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas
            storage operations or oil or natural gas production and that may be
            commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part
            of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a
            hazardous waste at the time of injection. Class II disposal well facilities do
            not include wells which inject fluids for enhanced recovery of oil or natural
            gas or for storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard
            temperature and pressure.




                                                                                          10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.8. “Commencement of Operation” means when a source first conducts the
            activity that it was designed and permitted for. In addition, for oil and gas
            well production facilities, commencement of operation is the date any
            permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
            flowing to sales lines, gathering lines, or storage tanks from the first
            producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
            completion operations (including flowback).

     I.B.9. “Condensate Storage Tank” means any tank or series of tanks that store
            condensate and are either manifolded together or are located at the same
            well pad.

     I.B.10. “Centralized Oil Stabilization Facility” means a facility that receives high-
            vapor-pressure crude oil (post-separation) from well production facilities
            through a pipeline oil-gathering system and stabilizes the crude oil for
            storage in tanks and/or for pipeline transportation.

     I.B.11. “Centrifugal Compressor” means any machine used for raising the
            pressure of natural gas by drawing in low pressure natural gas and
            discharging significantly higher pressure natural gas by means of
            mechanical rotating vanes or impellers. Screw, sliding vane, and liquid ring
            compressors are not centrifugal compressors.

     I.B.12. “Component” means each pump seal, flange, pressure relief device
            (including thief hatches or other openings on a controlled storage tank),
            connector, and valve that contains or contacts a process stream with
            hydrocarbons, except for components in process streams consisting of
            glycol, amine, produced water, or methanol.

     I.B.13. “Connector” means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to
            connect two pipes or a pipe and a piece of process equipment or that
            close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined
            fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are
            not considered connectors.




                                                                                             11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.14. “Custody Transfer” means the transfer of crude oil or natural gas after
            processing and/or treatment in the producing operations or from storage
            vessels or automatic transfer facilities or other such equipment, including
            product loading racks, to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.

     I.B.15. “Downtime” means the period of time when a well is producing and the air
            pollution control equipment is not in operation.

     I.B.16. “Existing” means any atmospheric condensate storage tank that began
            operation before February 1, 2009, and has not since been modified.

     I.B.17. “Glycol Natural Gas Dehydrator” means any device in which a liquid glycol
            (including, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, or triethylene glycol)
            absorbent directly contacts a natural gas stream and absorbs water.

     I.B.18. “Hydrocarbon liquids” means any naturally occurring, unrefined petroleum
            liquid. Hydrocarbon liquids does not include produced water.

     I.B.19. “Infra-red Camera” means an optical gas imaging instrument designed for
            and capable of detecting (or producing a detectable image of)
            hydrocarbons. The instrument must be capable of imaging a gas that is
            half methane, half propane at a concentration of 10,000 ppm at a flow rate
            of < 60 grams/hour from a quarter inch diameter orifice. The instrument
            must be capable of detecting at a viewing distance of 2 meters and a
            delta-T of 5 degrees Celsius in an environment of calm wind conditions
            around 1 meter per second or less.

     I.B.20. “Modified or Modification” means any physical change or change in
            operation of a stationary source that results in an increase in actual
            uncontrolled volatile organic compound emissions from the previous
            calendar year that occurs on or after February 1, 2009. For atmospheric
            condensate storage tanks (and beginning March 1, 2020, for all storage
            tanks), a physical change or change in operation includes but is not limited
            to drilling wells and recompleting, refracturing or otherwise stimulating
            existing wells.



                                                                                        12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.21. “Natural Gas Compressor Station” means a facility, located downstream of
           well production facilities, which contains one or more compressors
           designed to compress natural gas from well pressure to gathering system
           pressure prior to the inlet of a natural gas processing plant.

     I.B.22. “Natural Gas-Driven Diaphragm Pump” means a positive displacement
           pump powered by pressurized natural gas that uses the reciprocating
           action of flexible diaphragms in conjunction with check valves to pump a
           fluid. A pump in which a fluid is displaced by a piston driven by a
           diaphragm is not considered a diaphragm pump. A lean glycol circulation
           pump that relies on energy exchange with the rich glycol from the
           contactor is not considered a diaphragm pump.

     I.B.23. “Natural Gas Processing Plant” means any processing site engaged in the
           extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, fractionation of mixed
           natural gas liquids to natural gas products, or both. A Joule-Thompson
           valve, a dew point depression valve, or an isolated or standalone Joule-
           Thompson skid is not a natural gas processing plant.

     I.B.24. “Natural gas transmission and storage segment” (segment) includes
           onshore natural gas transmission pipelines, onshore natural gas
           transmission compression, underground natural gas storage, and liquefied
           natural gas (LNG) storage, as these terms are defined in 40 CFR Part 98,
           Section 98.230 (May 14, 2024), that are physically located in Colorado.

     I.B.25. “New” means any atmospheric condensate storage tank that began
           operation on or after February 1, 2009.

     I.B.26. “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does not lie
           south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s
           eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary intersected by
           40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude, proceed west on 40
           degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until this line intersects
           Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.




                                                                                      13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.27. “Produced Water” means water that is extracted from the earth from an oil
           or natural gas production well, or that is separated from crude oil,
           condensate, or natural gas after extraction.

     I.B.28. “Reciprocating Compressor” means a piece of equipment that increases
           the pressure of process gas by positive displacement, employing linear
           movement of the piston rod.

     I.B.29. “Stabilized” when used to refer to stored hydrocarbon liquids, means that
           the hydrocarbon liquids have reached substantial equilibrium with the
           atmosphere and that any emissions that occur are those commonly
           referred to within the industry as “working and breathing losses”.

     I.B.30. “Storage tank” means any fixed roof storage vessel or series of storage
           vessels that are manifolded together via liquid line. Storage tanks may be
           located at a well production facility or other location.

     I.B.31. “Storage vessel” means a tank or other vessel that contains an
           accumulation of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water and is constructed
           primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel,
           fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support. A well completion
           vessel that receives recovered liquids from a well after commencement of
           operation for a period which exceeds 60 days is considered a storage
           vessel. Storage vessel does not include vessels that are skid-mounted or
           permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars,
           barges, or ships) and are intended to be located at the site for less than
           180 consecutive days; process vessels such as surge control vessels,
           bottom receivers, or knockout vessels; or pressure vessels designed to
           operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the
           atmosphere.

     I.B.32. (State Only) “Surveillance System” means monitoring pilot flame presence
           or temperature in a combustion device either by visual observation or with
           an electronic device to record times and duration of periods where a pilot
           flame is not detected at least once per day.


                                                                                         14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.B.33. “System-Wide Control Strategy” means the collective emissions and
             emission reductions from all atmospheric condensate storage tanks under
             common ownership within the 8-hour Ozone Control Area for which
             uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound emissions are equal to or
             greater than two tons per year.

       I.B.34. “Well Production Facility” means all equipment at a single stationary
             source directly associated with one or more oil wells or natural gas wells
             upstream of the natural gas processing plant. This equipment includes,
             but is not limited to, equipment used for storage, separation, treating,
             dehydration, artificial lift, combustion, compression, pumping, metering,
             monitoring, and flowline.

I.C.   General Provisions

       I.C.1. General Requirements

             I.C.1.a. All air pollution control equipment used to demonstrate
                      compliance with this Section I. must be operated and maintained
                      consistent with manufacturer specifications and good engineering
                      and maintenance practices. The owner or operator must keep
                      manufacturer specifications and documentation of compliance
                      with maintenance practices on file. In addition, all such air
                      pollution control equipment must be adequately designed and
                      sized to achieve the control efficiency rates required by this
                      Section I. and to handle reasonably foreseeable fluctuations in
                      emissions of volatile organic compounds. Fluctuations in
                      emissions that occur when the separator dumps into the tank are
                      reasonably foreseeable.

             I.C.1.b. All hydrocarbon liquids and produced water collection, storage,
                      processing, and handling operations, regardless of size, must be
                      designed, operated, and maintained so as to minimize emission of
                      volatile organic compounds to the atmosphere to the maximum
                      extent practicable.


                                                                                         15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.C.1.c. All air pollution control equipment used to demonstrate
                   compliance with Sections I.D., I.J., and I.K. must meet a control
                   efficiency of at least 95%. Failure to properly install, operate, and
                   maintain air pollution control equipment is a violation of this
                   regulation,

           I.C.1.d. If a flare or other combustion device is used to control emissions
                   of volatile organic compounds to comply with Sections I.D., I.J.,
                   and I.K. it must be enclosed, have no visible emissions, and be
                   designed so that an observer can, by means of visual observation
                   from the outside of the enclosed flare or combustion device, or by
                   other convenient means, such as a continuous monitoring device,
                   approved by the Division, determine whether it is operating
                   properly.

           I.C.1.e. All combustion devices used to control emissions of volatile
                   organic compounds to comply with Sections I.D., I.J., and I.K.
                   must be equipped with and operate an auto-igniter as follows:

                  I.C.1.e.(i)    (State Only) For condensate storage tanks that are
                          constructed or modified after May 1, 2009, and before
                          January 1, 2017, and controlled by a combustion device,
                          auto-igniters must be installed and operational, beginning
                          the date of first production after any new tank installation or
                          tank modification.

                  I.C.1.e.(ii)   (State Only) For all existing condensate storage tanks
                          controlled by a combustion device in order to comply with
                          the emissions control requirements of Section I.D.1., auto-
                          igniters must be installed and operational beginning May 1,
                          2009, for condensate storage tanks with actual uncontrolled
                          emissions of greater than or equal to 50 tons per year, and
                          beginning May 1, 2010, for all other existing condensate
                          storage tanks controlled by a combustion device, or within


                                                                                        16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          180 days from first having installed the combustion device,
                          whichever date comes later.

                  I.C.1.e.(iii)   All combustion devices installed on or after January 1,
                          2017, must be equipped with an operational auto-igniter
                          upon installation of the combustion device.

                  I.C.1.e.(iv)    All combustion devices installed on or after January 1,
                          2018, and used to comply with Sections I.J. or I.K. must be
                          equipped with an operational auto-igniter upon installation of
                          the combustion device.

           I.C.1.f. (State Only)If a combustion device is used to control emissions of
                   volatile organic compounds, surveillance systems must be
                   employed and operational as follows:

                  I.C.1.f.(i)     (State Only) Beginning May 1, 2010, for all existing
                          condensate storage tanks with uncontrolled actual emissions
                          of 100 tons per year or more based on data from the
                          previous twelve consecutive months.

                  I.C.1.f.(ii)    (State Only) For all new and modified condensate
                          storage tanks controlled by a combustion device for the first
                          90 days surveillance systems must be employed and
                          operational beginning 180 days from commencement of
                          operation after the tank was newly installed, or after the well
                          was newly drilled, re-completed, re-fractured or otherwise
                          stimulated, if uncontrolled actual emissions projected for the
                          first twelve months based on data from the first 90 days of
                          operation from the condensate storage tank are 100 tons or
                          more of uncontrolled VOCs.

     I.C.2. The emission estimates and emission reductions required by Section I.D.
           must be demonstrated using one of the following emission factors:

           I.C.2.a. In the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area



                                                                                         17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.C.2.a.(i)     For atmospheric condensate storage tanks at oil and
                         gas exploration and production operations, a default
                         emission factor of 13.7 pounds of volatile organic
                         compounds per barrel of condensate must be used unless a
                         more specific emission factor has been established pursuant
                         to Section I.C.2.a.(iii). The Division may require a more
                         specific emission factor that complies with Section
                         I.C.2.a.(iii).

                 I.C.2.a.(ii)    For atmospheric condensate storage tanks at natural
                         gas compressor stations and natural gas drip stations a
                         source may use a specific emissions factor that was used for
                         reporting emissions from the source on APENs filed on or
                         before February 28, 2003. The Division may, however,
                         require the source to develop and use a more recent specific
                         emission factor pursuant to Section I.C.2.a.(iii) if such a
                         more recent emission factor would be more reliable or
                         accurate.

                 I.C.2.a.(iii)   Except as otherwise provided in Section I.C.2.a.(i), a
                         specific emission factor is one for which the Division has no
                         objection, and which is based on collection and analysis of a
                         representative sample of the hydrocarbon liquids or
                         produced water pursuant to a test method approved by the
                         Division.

                 I.C.2.a.(iv)    For storage tanks storing produced water or
                         hydrocarbon liquids other than condensate, the most recent
                         Division-approved default emission factors must be used
                         unless a more specific emission factor has been established
                         pursuant to Section I.C.2.a.(iii).

                 I.C.2.a.(v)     If the Division has reason to believe that a specific
                         emission factor is no longer representative, or if it deems it


                                                                                          18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         otherwise necessary, the Division may require the use of an
                         alternative emission factor that complies with Section
                         I.C.2.a.(iii).

           I.C.2.b. (State Only) For any other Ozone Nonattainment Area or
                  Attainment/Maintenance Areas

                 I.C.2.b.(i)     (State Only) For storage tanks at oil and gas
                         exploration and production operations, the source must use
                         a default basin-specific uncontrolled volatile organic
                         compound emission factor established by the Division unless
                         a site-specific emission factor has been established pursuant
                         to Section I.C.2.b.(iii). If the Division has established no
                         default emission factor, if the Division has reason to believe
                         that the default emission factor is no longer representative,
                         or if it deems it otherwise necessary, the Division may
                         require use of an alternative emission factor that complies
                         with Section I.C.2.b.(iii).

                 I.C.2.b.(ii)    (State Only) For storage tanks at natural gas
                         compressor stations and natural gas drip stations, the
                         source must use a site-specific volatile organic compound
                         emission factor established pursuant to Section I.C.2.b.(iii). If
                         the Division has reason to believe that the site-specific
                         emission factor is no longer representative, or if it deems it
                         otherwise necessary, the Division may require use of an
                         alternative emission factor that complies with Section
                         I.C.2.b.(iii).

                 I.C.2.b.(iii)   (State Only) Establishment of or Updating Approved
                         Emission Factors

                         I.C.2.b.(iii)(A) (State Only) The Division may require the
                                 source to develop and/or use a more recent default
                                 basin-specific or site-specific volatile organic


                                                                                          19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              compound emission factor pursuant to Section
                              I.C.2.b., if such emission factor would be more
                              reliable or accurate.

                       I.C.2.b.(iii)(B) (State Only) For storage tanks at oil and gas
                              exploration and production operations, the source
                              may use a site-specific volatile organic compound
                              emission factor for which the Division has no
                              objection, and which is based on collection and
                              analysis of a representative sample of hydrocarbon
                              liquids or produced water pursuant to a test method
                              approved by the Division.




                                                                                        20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            I.C.2.b.(iii)(C) (State Only) For storage tanks at natural gas
                                      compressor stations and natural gas drip stations, a
                                      source may use a volatile organic compound
                                      emissions factor that was used for reporting
                                      emissions from the source on APENs filed on or
                                      before February 28, 2003, or an alternative site-
                                      specific volatile organic compound emission factor
                                      established pursuant to Section I.C.2.b.

                            I.C.2.b.(iii)(D) (State Only) A default basin-specific volatile
                                      organic compound emissions factor must be one for
                                      which the Division has no objection, and which is
                                      based on collection and analysis of a representative
                                      sample of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water or
                                      an alternative method, pursuant to a test method
                                      approved by the Division, except as otherwise
                                      provided in I.C.2.b.(i).

                            I.C.2.b.(iii)(E) (State Only) A site-specific volatile organic
                                      compound emissions factor must be one for which the
                                      Division has no objection, and which is based on
                                      collection and analysis of a representative sample of
                                      hydrocarbon liquids or produced water pursuant to a
                                      test method approved by the Division.

I.D.   Storage Tank Emission Controls

       I.D.1. Repealed (December 16, 2022)

       I.D.2. Repealed (December 16, 2022)

       I.D.3. Storage Tank Control Strategy

             I.D.3.a. Applicability

                    I.D.3.a.(i)       Owners or operators of storage tanks with
                            uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs equal to or greater


                                                                                              21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         than four (4) tons per year based on a rolling twelve-month
                         total must collect and control emissions from each storage
                         tank by routing emissions to and operating air pollution
                         control equipment that achieves a VOC control efficiency of
                         95%. If a combustion device is used, it must have a design
                         destruction efficiency of at least 98% for VOC, except where
                         the combustion device has been authorized by permit prior
                         to March 1, 2020.

                 I.D.3.a.(ii)    Owners or operators of storage tanks with
                         uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs equal to or greater
                         than two (2) tons per year based on a rolling twelve-month
                         total and not subject to Section I.D.3.a.(i) must collect and
                         control emissions from each storage tank by routing
                         emissions to and operating air pollution control equipment
                         that achieves a VOC control efficiency of 95%. If a
                         combustion device is used, it must have a design destruction
                         efficiency of at least 98% for VOC, except where the
                         combustion device has been authorized by permit prior to
                         March 1, 2020.

                 I.D.3.a.(iii)   Internal floating roof tanks subject to Part B, Section
                         IV. at centralized oil stabilization facilities are not subject to
                         Section I.D.3.

                 I.D.3.a.(iv)    Owners or operators of storage tanks at class II
                         disposal well facilities for which the use of air pollution
                         control equipment would be technically infeasible without
                         supplemental fuel may apply for an exemption from the
                         control requirements of Section I.D.3. Such request must
                         include documentation demonstrating the infeasibility of the
                         air pollution control equipment.

           I.D.3.b. Compliance Deadlines


                                                                                          22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           Sections I.D.3.b.(i) through I.D.3.b.(viii) do not apply to storage tanks in
           northern Weld County or at a centralized oil stabilization or class II
           disposal well facility specified in Sections I.A.3. or I.A.4.

                  I.D.3.b.(i)     A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(i) and
                          constructed on or after March 1, 2020, must be in
                          compliance by commencement of operation of that storage
                          tank.

                  I.D.3.b.(ii)    A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(ii) and
                          constructed on or after March 1, 2020, must be in
                          compliance by commencement of operation of that storage
                          tank.

                  I.D.3.b.(iii)   A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(i) and
                          constructed before March 1, 2020, must be in compliance by
                          May 1, 2020, or by commencement of operation of the
                          storage tank, whichever comes later.




                                                                                          23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.D.3.b.(iv)    A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(ii) and
                         constructed before March 1, 2020, must be in compliance by
                         May 1, 2020, or by commencement of operation of the
                         storage tank, whichever comes later.

                 I.D.3.b.(v)     A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(i) and not
                         otherwise subject to Sections I.D.3.b.(i). or I.D.3.b.(iii) that
                         increases uncontrolled actual emissions to four (4) tons per
                         year VOC or more on a rolling twelve-month basis after
                         March 1, 2020, must be in compliance within sixty (60) days
                         of the first day of the month after which the storage tank
                         VOC emissions exceeded four (4) tons per year on a rolling
                         twelve-month basis.

                 I.D.3.b.(vi)    A storage tank subject to Section I.D.3.a.(ii) and not
                         otherwise subject to Sections I.D.3.b.(ii) or I.D.3.b.(iv) that
                         increases uncontrolled actual emissions to two (2) tons per
                         year VOC based on a rolling twelve-month basis after March
                         1, 2020, must be in compliance within sixty (60) days of the
                         first day of the month after which the storage tank VOC
                         emissions exceeded two (2) tons per year on a rolling
                         twelve-month basis.

                 I.D.3.b.(vii)   If air pollution control equipment is not installed by the
                         applicable compliance date in Sections I.D.3.b.(iii) or
                         I.D.3.b.(v), compliance with Section I.D.3.a.(i) may
                         alternatively be demonstrated by shutting in all wells
                         producing into that storage tank by the date in Sections
                         I.D.3.b.(iii) or I.D.3.b.(v) so long as production does not
                         resume from any such well until the air pollution control
                         equipment is installed and operational.

                 I.D.3.b.(viii) If air pollution control equipment is not installed by the
                         applicable compliance date in Sections I.D.3.b.(iv) or


                                                                                            24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         I.D.3.b.(vi), compliance with Section I.D.3.a.(ii) may
                         alternatively be demonstrated by shutting in all wells
                         producing into that storage tank by the date in Sections
                         I.D.3.b.(iv) or I.D.3.b.(vi) so long as production does not
                         resume from any such well until the air pollution control
                         equipment is installed and operational.

                 I.D.3.b.(ix)    This Section I.D.3. does not apply to storage tanks at
                         natural gas-processing plants subject to Section I.G. or
                         qualifying natural gas compressor stations subject to Section
                         I.I.

                 I.D.3.b.(x)     A storage tank in northern Weld County at a
                         centralized oil stabilization or class II disposal well facility
                         specified in Sections I.A.3. or I.A.4. meeting the applicability
                         in Sections I.D.3.a.(i) or I.D.3.a.(ii) and constructed before
                         February 14, 2023, that is not already controlled under
                         Section II.C.1.c. must be in compliance by May 1, 2023.

                 I.D.3.b.(xi)    A storage tank in northern Weld County at a
                         centralized oil stabilization or class II disposal well facility
                         specified in Sections I.A.3. or I.A.4. meeting the applicability
                         in Sections I.D.3.a.(i) or I.D.3.a.(ii) and constructed on or
                         after February 14, 2023, must be in compliance by
                         commencement of operation.

                 I.D.3.b.(xii)   A storage tank in northern Weld County at a
                         centralized oil stabilization or class II disposal well facility
                         specified in Sections I.A.3. or I.A.4. meeting the applicability
                         in Sections I.D.3.a.(i) or I.D.3.a.(ii) that increases
                         uncontrolled actual emissions to two (2) tons per year VOC
                         based on a rolling twelve-month basis after February 14,
                         2023, must be in compliance within sixty (60) days of the first
                         day of the month after which the storage tank VOC


                                                                                            25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          emissions exceeded two (2) tons per year on a rolling
                          twelve-month basis.

                  I.D.3.b.(xiii) If air pollution control equipment is not installed by the
                          applicable compliance date in Sections I.D.3.b.(x) through
                          I.D.3.b.(xii), compliance with Sections I.D.3.a.(i) or I.D.3.a.(ii)
                          may alternatively be demonstrated by shutting in all wells
                          producing into that storage tank by the date in Sections
                          I.D.3.b.(x) through I.D.3.b.(xii) so long as production does
                          not resume from any such well until the air pollution control
                          equipment is installed and operational.

     I.D.4. Alternative emissions control equipment and pollution prevention devices
           and processes installed and implemented after June 1, 2004, shall qualify
           as air pollution control equipment, and may be used in lieu of, or in
           combination with, combustion devices and/or vapor recovery units to
           achieve the emission reductions required by this Section I.D., if the
           following conditions are met:

           I.D.4.a. The owner or operator obtains a construction permit authorizing
                   such use of the alternative emissions control equipment or
                   pollution prevention device or process. The proposal for such
                   equipment, device or process shall comply with all regulatory
                   provisions for construction permit applications and shall include
                   the following:

                  I.D.4.a.(i)     A description of the equipment, device or process;

                  I.D.4.a.(ii)    A description of where, when and how the equipment,
                          device or process will be used;

                  I.D.4.a.(iii)   The claimed control efficiency and supporting
                          documentation adequate to demonstrate such control
                          efficiency;




                                                                                          26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     I.D.4.a.(iv)    An adequate method for measuring actual control
                              efficiency; and

                     I.D.4.a.(v)     Description of the records and reports that will be
                              generated to adequately track emission reductions and
                              implementation and operation of the equipment, device or
                              process, and a description of how such matters will be
                              reflected in the records and reports required by Section I.F.

              I.D.4.b. Public notice of the application is provided pursuant to Regulation
                      Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

              I.D.4.c. EPA approves the proposal. The Division shall transmit a copy of
                      the permit application and any other materials provided by the
                      applicant, all public comments, all Division responses and the
                      Division’s permit to EPA Region 8. If EPA fails to approve or
                      disapprove the proposal within 45 days of receipt of these
                      materials, EPA shall be deemed to have approved the proposal.

I.E.   Monitoring of Storage Tanks and Air Pollution Control Equipment

       I.E.1. Applicability

              I.E.1.a. The owner or operator of any storage tank that is being controlled
                      pursuant to this Section I.

       I.E.2. Monitoring Requirements

              I.E.2.a. The owner or operator of any storage tank controlled by air
                      pollution control equipment other than a combustion device must
                      follow manufacturer’s recommended maintenance. Air pollution
                      control equipment must be periodically inspected to ensure proper
                      maintenance and operation according to the Division-approved
                      operation and maintenance plan.

              I.E.2.b. Repealed (December 16, 2022)

              I.E.2.c. Weekly Monitoring Requirements



                                                                                           27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           The owner or operator must inspect or monitor the air pollution control
           equipment at least weekly to ensure that it is operating properly. The
           inspection must include and document the following

                 I.E.2.c.(i)      For combustion devices, a check that the pilot light is
                         lit by either visible observation or other means approved by
                         the Division. For devices equipped with an auto-igniter, a
                         check that the auto-igniter is properly functioning.

                 I.E.2.c.(ii)     For combustion devices, a check that the valves for
                         piping of gas to the pilot light are open.

                 I.E.2.c.(iii)    (State Only) In addition to complying with Sections
                         I.E.2.c.(i). and I.E.2.c.(ii)., the owner or operator of tanks
                         controlled pursuant to Section I.D. that have installed
                         combustion devices may use a surveillance system to
                         maintain records on combustion device operation.

                 I.E.2.c.(iv)     For combustion devices, the owner or operator must
                         visually check for the presence or absence of smoke and
                         that the burner tray is not visibly clogged.

                 I.E.2.c.(v)      For vapor recovery units, the owner or operator must
                         check that the unit is operating and that vapors from the
                         storage tank are being routed to the unit.

                 I.E.2.c.(vi)     For all control devices, the owner or operator must
                         check that the valves for the piping from the storage tank to
                         the air pollution control equipment are open.

                 I.E.2.c.(vii)    For all storage tanks, the owner or operator must
                         check that the thief hatch is closed and latched, the pressure
                         relief valve is properly seated, and all vent lines are closed.

                 I.E.2.c.(viii)   Beginning May 1, 2020, or the applicable compliance
                         date in Section I.D.3.b., whichever comes later, owners or
                         operators of storage tanks with uncontrolled actual


                                                                                          28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        emissions of VOCs equal to or greater than four (4) tons per
                        year based on a rolling twelve-month total must conduct
                        audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) inspections of the storage tank.

                 I.E.2.c.(ix)   Beginning May 1, 2020, or the applicable compliance
                        date in Section I.D.3.b., whichever comes later, owners or
                        operators of storage tanks subject to Section I.D.3.a.(ii) must
                        conduct audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) inspections of the
                        storage tank.

           I.E.2.d. (State Only) For storage tanks equipped with a surveillance
                   system or other Division-approved monitoring system, the owner
                   or operator must check weekly that the system is functioning
                   properly and that necessary information is being collected. Any
                   loss of data or failure to collect required data may be treated by
                   the Division as if the data were not collected.

     I.E.3. Performance testing requirements

           I.E.3.a. Each storage vessel that has the potential for VOC emissions
                   equal to or greater than six (6) tons per year (controlled actual
                   emissions) must conduct periodic performance testing of the
                   control device used to comply with Section I.D.3.a.(i). The
                   potential for VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally
                   accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the
                   maximum average daily throughput determined for the 30-day
                   period of production prior to May 1, 2022, or April 1, 2023, if
                   located in northern Weld County. The determination may take into
                   account requirements under a legally and practically enforceable
                   limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under
                   a federal, state, local, or tribal authority. Any vapor from the
                   storage vessel that is recovered and routed to a process through
                   a VRU with a cover and closed vent system is not required to be




                                                                                        29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                      included in the determination of VOC potential to emit for
                      purposes of determining applicability.

                     I.E.3.a.(i)     Conduct a performance test in accordance with 40
                             CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(b) (June
                             3, 2016) by May 1, 2023, and subsequent performance tests
                             no longer than 60 months following the previous
                             performance test.

                     I.E.3.a.(ii)    Control device models tested in accordance with 40
                             CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(d) and
                             demonstrating continuous compliance in accordance with 40
                             CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(e)(1)
                             (June 3, 2016) are not subject to the performance test
                             requirement in Section I.E.3.a.(i).

                     I.E.3.a.(iii)   Maintain records of performance tests conducted
                             pursuant to Section I.E.3.a.(i) or manufacturer
                             demonstrations and associated inlet gas flow rate records
                             specified in Section I.E.3.a.(ii) for five (5) years and make
                             records available to the Division upon request.

I.F.   Storage Tank Recordkeeping and Reporting

       I.F.1. Repealed, except for records retained in Sections I.F.1.c. through 1.F.1.f.
              and I.F.1.g.(x); renumbered as I.F.1.a. through I.F.1.e., respectively.
              (December 16, 2022)

              I.F.1.a. A copy of each calendar weekly and calendar monthly
                      spreadsheet shall be retained for five years, with final retention
                      period ending April 30, 2025. A spreadsheet may apply to more
                      than one week if there are no changes in any of the required data
                      and the spreadsheet clearly identifies the weeks it covers. The
                      spreadsheet may be retained electronically. However, the Division




                                                                                             30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   may treat any loss of data or failure to maintain the Division-
                   approved spreadsheet, as if the data were not collected.

           I.F.1.b. Each owner or operator shall maintain records of the inspections
                   required pursuant to Section I.E. and retain those records for five
                   years, with final retention period ending April 30, 2025. These
                   records shall include the time and date of the inspection, the
                   person conducting the inspection, a notation that each of the
                   checks required under Sections I.C. and I.E. were completed and
                   a description of any problems observed during the inspection, and
                   a description and date of any corrective actions taken.

           I.F.1.c. (State Only) Each owner or operator shall maintain records of
                   required surveillance system or other monitoring data and shall
                   make these records available promptly upon Division request.

           I.F.1.d. (State Only) Each owner or operator shall maintain records on
                   when an atmospheric condensate storage tank is newly installed,
                   or when a well is newly drilled, re-completed, re-fractured or
                   otherwise stimulated. Records shall be maintained per well
                   associated with each tank and the date of first production
                   associated with these activities.

           I.F.1.e. A copy of each semi-annual report shall be retained for five years
                   or through August 30, 2025, for the last report submitted on or
                   before August 30, 2020.

     I.F.2. Recordkeeping for storage tanks subject to Section I.D.3.

           I.F.2.a. The owner or operator of any storage tank subject to control
                   pursuant to Section I.D.3. must maintain records and make them
                   available to the Division upon request.

           I.F.2.b. Records maintained under this Section I.F.2. must include:




                                                                                     31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.F.2.b.(i)     The AIRS number for the storage tank. The AIRS
                          number assigned by the Division must be marked on all
                          storage tanks required to file an APEN.

                 I.F.2.b.(ii)    If air pollution control equipment is required to comply
                          with Section I.D.3. visible signage must be located with the
                          control equipment identifying the AIRS number for each
                          storage tank that is being controlled by that equipment.

                 I.F.2.b.(iii)   Records of the inspections required in Section I.E.

                          I.F.2.b.(iii)(A) The time and date of each inspection.

                          I.F.2.b.(iii)(B) The person conducting the inspection.

                          I.F.2.b.(iii)(C) A notation that each of the checks required
                                 under Section I.E. were completed.

                          I.F.2.b.(iii)(D) A description of any problems observed during
                                 the inspection, description and date of any corrective
                                 actions taken, and name of individual performing
                                 corrective actions.

                 I.F.2.b.(iv)    The calendar monthly uncontrolled actual and
                          controlled actual emissions of VOC and the rolling twelve-
                          month totals for each storage tank subject to control under
                          Section I.D.3.

                 I.F.2.b.(v)     The emission factor used for each storage tank. The
                          emission factors must comply with Section I.C.2. and the
                          owner or operator must use the most recent emission factor
                          on file with the Division (i.e., either the default emission
                          factor or the specific emission factor established pursuant to
                          Section I.C.2.a.(iii)).

                 I.F.2.b.(vi)    The control efficiency of each unit of air pollution
                          control equipment and the AIRS number of the storage tank
                          being controlled.


                                                                                         32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.F.2.b.(vii)    Records of any exemption, and associated
                          documentation, applied for under Section I.D.3.a.(ii)(A).

           I.F.2.c. (State Only) The owner or operator of each storage tank subject to
                   Section I.D.3. (except storage tanks located at centralized oil
                   stabilization and class II disposal well facilities specified in Section
                   I.A.4.) must maintain records of

                 I.F.2.c.(i)      The monthly production volumes for each storage
                          tank, based on the most recent measurement available. The
                          monthly average must be calculated by averaging the most
                          recent measurement of such production, which may be the
                          amount shown on the receipt from the purchaser for delivery
                          of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water from such tank,
                          over the time such delivered hydrocarbon liquids or
                          produced water was collected. The monthly average from
                          the most recent measurement will be used to estimate
                          monthly volumes of controlled and uncontrolled actual
                          emissions for all weeks and months following the
                          measurement until the next measurement is taken.

                 I.F.2.c.(ii)     Any downtime of air pollution control equipment,
                          including the date, time and duration of any scheduled
                          downtime. For any unscheduled downtime, the date and
                          time the downtime was discovered and the date and time the
                          air pollution control equipment was last observed to be
                          operating.

                 I.F.2.c.(iii)    Any required surveillance system or other monitoring
                          data.

                 I.F.2.c.(iv)     When a storage tank is installed, or when a well is
                          drilled, re-completed, re-fractured, or otherwise stimulated.
                          Records must be maintained per well associated with each




                                                                                        33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          storage tank and the date of commencement of operation
                          associated with these activities.

     I.F.3. Reporting for storage tanks subject to Section I.D.3.

           I.F.3.a. On or before April 30, 2021, and April 30 of each year thereafter,
                    each owner or operator of storage tanks in the 8-Hour Ozone
                    Control Area must submit a report using Division-approved format.
                    A copy of each report must be retained for a period of five (5)
                    years.

           I.F.3.b. On or before April 30, 2024, and April 30 of each year thereafter,
                    the owner or operator of any storage tank subject to Sections
                    I.D.3.b.(x) through I.D.3.b.(xii) must submit a report using Division-
                    approved format. A copy of each report must be retained for a
                    period of five (5) years.

           I.F.3.c. The report under this Section I.F.3. must include:

                  I.F.3.c.(i)    The report must list all storage tanks (by AIRS
                          number and location name) controlled pursuant to Section
                          I.D.3. during the previous calendar year (starting calendar
                          year 2020) and

                          I.F.3.c.(i)(A) The calendar monthly uncontrolled actual and
                                 controlled actual emissions of VOC and the rolling
                                 twelve-month total for each storage tank.

                          I.F.3.c.(i)(B) The emission factor used for each storage tank
                                 for each month.

                          I.F.3.c.(i)(C) The control efficiency for the air pollution
                                 control equipment for each storage tank.

                  I.F.3.c.(ii)   (State Only) The report must identify any storage tank
                          whose control status has changed, and the date of the
                          change, since submission of the previous report.



                                                                                        34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.F.3.c.(iii)   (State Only) The report must list the production
                          volume for each storage tank. Production volumes may be
                          estimated by the amounts shown on the receipt from the
                          purchaser.

                 I.F.3.c.(iv)    (State Only) The report must list any downtime of air
                          pollution control equipment, including the date, time, and
                          duration of any scheduled downtime. For any unscheduled
                          downtime, the date and time the downtime was discovered
                          and the last date the air pollution control equipment was
                          observed to be operating must be recorded in the report.

                 I.F.3.c.(v)     (State Only) The report must list any instances where
                          the air pollution control equipment was not properly
                          functioning, including the date and time the equipment was
                          not properly operating, the date and time the equipment was
                          last observed operating properly, and the date and time the
                          problem was corrected. The report must also include the
                          specific nature of the problem, the specific steps taken to
                          correct the problem, the AIRS number, or site name if no
                          AIRS number has been assigned, of each storage tank
                          being controlled by the equipment and the estimated
                          production from those storage tanks during the period of
                          non-operation.

                 I.F.3.c.(vi)    (State Only) Reports must be signed by a responsible
                          official who must also sign the Division-approved compliance
                          certification form for storage tanks. The compliance
                          certification includes both a certification of compliance with
                          all applicable requirements of Section I. If any non-
                          compliance is identified, the certification must include the
                          citation, dates and durations of deviations from this Section
                          I., associated reasoning, and compliance plan and schedule



                                                                                         35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             to achieve compliance. Compliance certifications for state
                             only conditions must be identified separately from
                             compliance certifications required under the State
                             Implementation Plan.

                     I.F.3.c.(vii)   (State Only) Each Division-approved self-certification
                             form, and compliance certification submitted pursuant to
                             Section I. must contain a certification by a responsible official
                             of the truth, accuracy and completeness of such form, report
                             or certification stating that, based on information and belief
                             formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and
                             information in the document are true, accurate and
                             complete.

I.G.   Natural gas-processing plants located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or
       northern Weld County shall comply with requirements of this Section I.G., as well
       as the requirements of Sections I.B., I.C.1.a., I.C.1.b., I.H., I.J., I.K., and
       Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.A. through C.

       I.G.1. For fugitive volatile organic compound emissions from leaking equipment,
              the leak detection and repair (LDAR) program as provided at 40 CFR Part
              60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025) applies, regardless of the date of
              construction of the affected facility, unless subject to the LDAR program
              provided at 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025), or at 40
              CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025).

              I.G.1.a. Compliance with the LDAR program in Part B, Section II.I.2. fulfills
                       compliance with the VOC emissions reductions requirements of
                       the LDAR program described in Section I.G.1.

       I.G.2. Air pollution control equipment shall be installed and properly operated to
              reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds from any atmospheric
              condensate storage tank (or tank battery) used to store condensate that
              has not been stabilized that has uncontrolled actual emissions of greater




                                                                                           36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              than or equal to two tons per year. Such air pollution control equipment
              shall have a control efficiency of at least 95%.

       I.G.3. Natural gas processing plants within the 8-hour Ozone Control Area
              constructed before January 1, 2018, must comply with the requirements of
              Section I.G. beginning January 1, 2019.

       I.G.4. Natural gas processing plants within northern Weld County must comply
              with the requirements of Section I.G. beginning February 14, 2023, or
              upon commencement of operation if after February 14, 2023.

       I.G.5. The provisions of Sections I.B., I.C.1.a., I.C.1.b., I.G., I.H., I.J., I.K., and
              Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.A. through C., apply upon the
              commencement of operations to any natural gas processing plant that
              commences operation in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area after the effective
              date of this section.

I.H.   Emission Reductions from glycol natural gas dehydrators

       I.H.1. Beginning May 1, 2005, still vents and vents from any flash separator or
              flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator located at an oil and gas
              exploration and production operation, natural gas compressor station, drip
              station or gas-processing plant in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area and
              subject to control requirements pursuant to Section I.H.3., shall reduce
              uncontrolled actual emissions of volatile organic compounds by at least 90
              percent on a rolling twelve-month basis through the use of a condenser or
              air pollution control equipment.

       I.H.2. (State Only) Beginning January 30, 2009, still vents and vents from any
              flash separator or flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator located at
              an oil and gas exploration and production operation, natural gas
              compressor station, drip station or gas-processing plant in the 8-Hour
              Ozone Control Area and subject to control requirements pursuant to
              Section I.H.3., shall reduce uncontrolled actual emissions of volatile




                                                                                                 37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           organic compounds by at least 90 percent on a rolling twelve-month basis
           through the use of a condenser or air pollution control equipment.

     I.H.3. The control requirements of Sections I.H.1. and I.H.2. apply where:

           I.H.3.a. Actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile organic compounds from
                   the glycol natural gas dehydrator are equal to or greater than one
                   ton per year; and

           I.H.3.b. The sum of actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile organic
                   compounds from any single glycol natural gas dehydrator or
                   grouping of glycol natural gas dehydrators at a single stationary
                   source is equal to or greater than 15 tons per year. To determine if
                   a grouping of dehydrators meets or exceeds the 15 tons per year
                   threshold, sum the total actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile
                   organic compounds from all individual dehydrators at the
                   stationary source, including those with emissions less than one
                   ton per year.

     I.H.4. Beginning February 14, 2023, still vents and vents from any flash
           separator or flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator located at an oil
           and gas exploration and production operation, natural gas compressor
           station, drip station or gas-processing plant in northern Weld County and
           subject to control requirements pursuant to Section I.H.4. that is not
           already controlled under Section II.D., must reduce uncontrolled actual
           emissions of volatile organic compounds by at least 95 percent on a rolling
           twelve-month basis through the use of a condenser or air pollution control
           equipment. The control requirements of Section I.H.4. apply where:

           I.H.4.a. Uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs from a glycol natural gas
                   dehydrator constructed on or after February 14, 2023, are equal to
                   or greater than two (2) tons per year. Such glycol natural gas
                   dehydrators must be in compliance with Section I.H.4. by the date
                   that the glycol natural gas dehydrator commences operation.




                                                                                       38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.H.4.b. Uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs from a single glycol
                    natural gas dehydrator constructed before February 14, 2023, are
                    equal to or greater than six (6) tons per year.

     I.H.5. For purposes of Section I.H., emissions from still vents and vents from any
           flash separator or flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator shall be
           calculated using a method approved in advance by the Division.

     I.H.6. Monitoring and recordkeeping

           I.H.5.a. Beginning January 1, 2017, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                    northern Weld County, owners or operators of glycol natural gas
                    dehydrators subject to the control requirements of Sections I.H.1.,
                    I.H.2., or I.H.4. must check on a weekly basis that any condenser
                    or air pollution control equipment used to control emissions of
                    volatile organic compounds is operating properly, and document:

                  I.H.6.a.(i)     The date of each inspection;

                  I.H.6.a.(ii)    A description of any problems observed during the
                          inspection of the condenser or air pollution control
                          equipment; and

                  I.H.6.a.(iii)   A description and date of any corrective actions taken
                          to address problems observed during the inspection of the
                          condenser or air pollution control equipment.

           I.H.6.b. The owner or operator must check and document on a weekly
                    basis that the pilot light on a combustion device is lit, that the
                    valves for piping of gas to the pilot light are open, and visually
                    check for the presence or absence of smoke.

           I.H.6.c. The owner or operator must document the maintenance of the
                    condenser or air pollution control equipment, consistent with
                    manufacturer specifications or good engineering and maintenance
                    practices.




                                                                                         39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            I.H.6.d. The owner or operator must retain records for a period of five
                    years and make these records available to the Division upon
                    request.

     I.H.7. Reporting

            I.H.7.a. On or before November 30, 2017, and semi-annually by April 30
                    and November 30 of each year thereafter, the owner or operator
                    must submit the following information for the preceding calendar
                    year (April 30 report) and for May 1 through September 30
                    (November 30 report) using Division-approved format. Owners or
                    operators of glycol natural gas dehydrators in northern Weld
                    County must submit the first April 30 report on or before April 30,
                    2024 (for calendar year 2023), and each April 30 thereafter, and
                    the first November 30 report on or before November 30, 2023, (for
                    May 1 through September 30), and each year thereafter, using
                    Division-approved format. Beginning April 30, 2025, and by April
                    30 of each year thereafter, the owner or operator must submit the
                    following information for the preceding calendar year, using
                    Division-approved format.

                  I.H.7.a.(i)     A list of the glycol natural gas dehydrator(s) subject to
                          Section I.H.;

                  I.H.7.a.(ii)    A list of the condenser or air pollution control
                          equipment used to control emissions of volatile organic
                          compounds from the glycol natural gas dehydrator(s); and

                  I.H.7.a.(iii)   The date(s) of inspection(s) where the condenser or
                          air pollution control equipment was found not operating
                          properly or where smoke was observed.

     I.I.   The requirements of Sections I.D. through I.F. do not apply to the owner or
            operator of any natural gas compressor station or natural gas drip station
            located in an Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment/Maintenance Area if:



                                                                                        40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.I.1.   Air pollution control equipment is installed and properly operated to reduce
              emissions of volatile organic compounds from all atmospheric condensate
              storage tanks (or tank batteries) that have uncontrolled actual emissions
              of greater than or equal to two tons per year;

     I.I.2.   The air pollution control equipment is designed to achieve a VOC control
              efficiency of at least 95% on a rolling 12-month basis and meets the
              requirements of Sections I.C.1.a. and I.C.1.b;

     I.I.3.   The owner or operator of such natural gas compressor station or natural
              gas drip station does not own or operate any exploration and production
              facilities in the Ozone Non-attainment or Attainment-maintenance Area;
              and

     I.I.4.   The owner or operator of such natural gas compressor station or natural
              gas drip station does the following and maintains associated records and
              reports for a period of five years:

              I.I.4.a. Documents the maintenance of the air pollution control equipment
                      according to manufacturer specifications;

              I.I.4.b. Conducts an annual opacity observation once each year on the air
                      pollution control equipment to verify opacity does not exceed 20%
                      during normal operations;

              I.I.4.c. Maintains records of the monthly stabilized condensate throughput
                      and monthly actual VOC emissions; and

              I.I.4.d. Reports compliance with these requirements to the Division
                      annually, on or before April 30 of each year beginning April 30,
                      2025.

     I.I.5.   A natural gas compressor station or natural gas drip station subject to
              Section I.I. at which a glycol natural gas dehydrator and/or natural gas-
              fired stationary or portable engine is operated is subject to Sections I.H.,
              I.J., and/or Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I. A natural gas
              compressor station subject to Section I.I. is also subject to Section I.L.


                                                                                           41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

I.J.   Compressors

       I.J.1. Centrifugal compressor

             I.J.1.a. Beginning January 1, 2018, or May 1, 2023, if located in northern
                     Weld County, uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound
                     emissions from wet seal fluid degassing systems on wet seal
                     centrifugal compressors located between the wellhead and the
                     point of custody transfer to the natural gas transmission and
                     storage segment must be reduced by at least 95%. A centrifugal
                     compressor located at a well production facility, or an adjacent
                     well production facility and servicing more than one well
                     production facility, is not subject to Section I.J.1.

             I.J.1.b. If the owner or operator uses a control device or routes emissions
                     to a process to reduce emissions, the owner or operator must
                     equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a continuous,
                     impermeable cover that is connected through a closed vent
                     system that routes the emissions from the wet seal fluid
                     degassing system to the process or control device.

             I.J.1.c. The owner or operator must conduct annual visual inspections of
                     the cover and closed vent system for defects that could result in
                     air emissions. Defects of the closed vent system include, but are
                     not limited to, visible cracks, holes, gaps in piping, loose
                     connections, liquid leaks, or broken or missing caps or other
                     closure devices. Defects of the cover include, but are not limited
                     to, visible cracks, holes, gaps in the cover or between the cover
                     and separator wall, broken or damaged seals or gaskets on
                     closure devices, broken or missing hatches or other closure
                     devices.

             I.J.1.d. The owner or operator must conduct annual EPA Method 21
                     (August 3, 2017) inspections of the cover and closed vent system




                                                                                         42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   to determine whether the cover and closed vent system operates
                   with volatile organic compound emissions less than 500 ppm.

           I.J.1.e. In the event that a defect that could result in air emissions or leak
                   is detected, the owner or operator must make a first attempt to
                   repair no later than five (5) days after detecting the defect or leak
                   and complete repair no later than thirty (30) days after detecting
                   the defect or leak.

           I.J.1.f. Owners or operators may delay inspection or repair of a cover or
                   closed vent system if:

                  I.J.1.f.(i)     Repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown. If
                           shutdown is required, a repair attempt must be made during
                           the next scheduled shutdown and final repair completed
                           within two (2) years after discovery.

                  I.J.1.f.(ii)    The cover or closed vent system is unsafe to inspect
                           or repair because personnel would be exposed to an
                           immediate danger as a consequence of completing the
                           inspection or repair.

                  I.J.1.f.(iii)   The cover or closed vent system is difficult to inspect
                           or repair because personnel must be elevated more than two
                           (2) meters above a supported surface or are unable to
                           inspect or repair via a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic type
                           scaffold that allows access up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above
                           the ground.

                  I.J.1.f.(iv)    The cover or closed vent system is inaccessible to
                           inspect or repair because the cover or closed vent system is
                           buried, insulated, or obstructed by equipment or piping that
                           prevents access.

           I.J.1.g. The owner or operator must conduct monthly inspections of a
                   combustion device used to reduce emissions to ensure the device



                                                                                        43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   is operating with no visible emissions. If smoke is observed, either
                   the equipment must be immediately shut-in to investigate the
                   potential cause for smoke and perform repairs, as necessary, or
                   EPA Method 22 (January 14, 2019) must be conducted. Devices
                   fail the visible emissions test if a Method 22 (January 14, 2019)
                   observation documents visible emissions are present for more
                   than one minute in any 15-minute period. Devices failing the
                   visible emissions test must follow manufacturer’s repair
                   instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice
                   to return the unit to compliant operation. Following return to
                   operation, the owner or operator must complete a Method 22
                   (January 14, 2019) visual observation where there are less than
                   one minute of visible emissions in any 15-minute period.

           I.J.1.h. For a combustion device used to reduce VOC emissions from wet
                   seal fluid degassing systems on wet seal centrifugal compressors,
                   the owner or operator must conduct a performance test in
                   accordance with 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section
                   60.5413a(b) (July 31, 2025) by May 1, 2023, or May 1, 2024, if
                   located in northern Weld County, and subsequent performance
                   tests no longer than 60 months following the previous
                   performance test. Control device models tested in accordance
                   with 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(d) and
                   demonstrating continuous compliance in accordance with 40 CFR
                   Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(e)(1) (July 31, 2025)
                   are not subject to the performance test requirement.

           I.J.1.i. Recordkeeping

                 I.J.1.i.(i)    Owners or operators must maintain the following
                          records for at least five (5) years and make records available
                          to the Division upon request:




                                                                                       44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(A)   Identification of each centrifugal compressor
                                 using a wet seal system;

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(B)   Each combustion device visible emissions
                                 inspection and any resulting responsive actions;

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(C)   Each cover and closed vent system inspection
                                 and any resulting responsive actions; and

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(D)   Each cover or closed vent system on the delay
                                 of inspection or repair list, the reason for and duration
                                 of the delay of inspection or repair, and the schedule
                                 for inspecting or repairing such cover or closed vent
                                 system.

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(E)   Each performance test or manufacturer
                                 demonstration of control device model performance
                                 test, and associated inlet gas flow rate records.

                         I.J.1.i.(i)(F)   Records of visual inspections conducted
                                 pursuant to Section I.J.1.g., including the time and
                                 date of each inspection and a description of any
                                 problems observed, description and date of any
                                 corrective action(s) taken, and name of employee or
                                 third party performing corrective action(s).

           I.J.1.j. As an alternative to the inspection, repair, and recordkeeping
                   provisions in Sections I.J.1.c. through I.J.1.f., I.J.1.h.(i)(C), and
                   I.J.1.h.(i)(D), the owner or operator may inspect, repair, and
                   document the cover and closed vent system in accordance with
                   the leak detection and repair program in Section I.L., including the
                   inspection frequency.

           I.J.1.k. As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
                   recordkeeping provisions described in Sections I.J.1.a. through
                   I.J.1.i., the owner or operator may comply with wet seal centrifugal



                                                                                           45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   compressors emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
                   reporting requirements of a New Source Performance Standard in
                   40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO for centrifugal compressors for
                   which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced
                   after August 23, 2011, and on or before September 18, 2015 (July
                   31, 2025); Subpart OOOOa for centrifugal compressors for which
                   construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after
                   September 18, 2015, and on or before December 6, 2022 (July
                   31, 2025); or Subpart OOOOb for centrifugal compressors for
                   which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced
                   after December 6, 2022 (December 3, 2025).

           I.J.1.l. Compliance with the centrifugal compressor emission control,
                   inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions in Section II.J.
                   fulfills compliance with the VOC reduction, emission control,
                   monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements described
                   in Sections I.J.1.a. through I.J.1.i.

     I.J.2. Reciprocating compressor

           I.J.2.a. Beginning January 1, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                   northern Weld County, the rod packing on reciprocating
                   compressors located between the wellhead and the point of
                   custody transfer to the natural gas transmission and storage
                   segment must be replaced every 26,000 hours of operation or
                   every thirty-six (36) months. A reciprocating compressor located at
                   a well production facility, or an adjacent well production facility and
                   servicing more than one well production facility, is not subject to
                   Section I.J.2.

                 I.J.2.a.(i)    Owners or operators of reciprocating compressors
                         located at a natural gas processing plant and constructed
                         before January 1, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                         northern Weld County must


                                                                                         46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          I.J.2.a.(i)(A) Begin monitoring the hours of operation
                                 starting January 1, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if
                                 located in northern Weld County, unless already
                                 monitoring under Section II.B.3.; or

                          I.J.2.a.(i)(B) Conduct the first rod packing replacement
                                 required under Section I.J.2. prior to January 1, 2021,
                                 or February 14, 2026, if located in northern Weld
                                 County, unless under a replacement schedule under
                                 Section II.B.3.

                  I.J.2.a.(ii)   Owners or operators of reciprocating compressors
                          located at a natural gas processing plant and constructed
                          after January 1, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                          northern Weld County, must begin monitoring the hours or
                          months of operation upon commencement of operation of
                          the reciprocating compressor, unless the compressor located
                          in northern Weld County is already monitoring under Section
                          II.B.3.d.

           I.J.2.b. As an alternative to the requirement described in Section I.J.2.a.,
                   beginning May 1, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                   northern Weld County, the owner or operator may collect rod
                   packing volatile organic compound emissions using a rod packing
                   emissions collection system that routes the rod packing emissions
                   through a closed vent system to a process.

                  I.J.2.b.(i)    The owner or operator must conduct annual visual
                          inspections of the cover and closed vent system for defects
                          that could result in air emissions. Defects of the closed vent
                          system include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes,
                          gaps in piping, loose connections, liquid leaks, or broken or
                          missing caps or other closure devices. Defects of the cover
                          include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, gaps in


                                                                                        47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          the cover or between the cover and separator wall, broken or
                          damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices, broken or
                          missing hatches or other closure devices.

                 I.J.2.b.(ii)    The owner or operator must conduct annual EPA
                          Method 21 (August 3, 2017) inspections of the cover and
                          closed vent system to determine whether the cover and
                          closed vent system operates with volatile organic compound
                          emissions less than 500 ppm.

                 I.J.2.b.(iii)   In the event that a defect that could result in air
                          emissions or leak is detected, the owner or operator must
                          make a first attempt to repair no later than five (5) days after
                          detecting the defect or leak and complete repair no later than
                          thirty (30) days after detecting the defect or leak.

                 I.J.2.b.(iv)    Owners or operators may delay inspection or repair of
                          a cover or closed vent system if:

                          I.J.2.b.(iv)(A) Repair is technically infeasible without a
                                 shutdown. If shutdown is required, a repair attempt
                                 must be made during the next scheduled shutdown
                                 and final repair completed within two (2) years after
                                 discovery.

                          I.J.2.b.(iv)(B) The cover or closed vent system is unsafe to
                                 inspect or repair because personnel would be
                                 exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence
                                 of completing the inspection or repair.

                          I.J.2.b.(iv)(C) The cover or closed vent system is difficult to
                                 inspect or repair because personnel must be elevated
                                 more than two (2) meters above a supported surface
                                 or are unable to inspect or repair via a wheeled




                                                                                            48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                scissor-lift or hydraulic type scaffold that allows
                                access up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the ground.

                         I.J.2.b.(iv)(D) The cover or closed vent system is
                                inaccessible to inspect or repair because the cover or
                                closed vent system is buried, insulated, or obstructed
                                by equipment or piping that prevents access.

           I.J.2.c. Recordkeeping

                 I.J.2.c.(i)    Owners or operators must maintain the following
                         records for at least five (5) years and make records available
                         to the Division upon request:

                         I.J.2.c.(i)(A) Identification of each reciprocating compressor;

                         I.J.2.c.(i)(B) The hours of operation or the number of
                                months since the previous rod packing replacement,
                                or a statement that emissions from the rod packing
                                are being routed to a process through a closed vent
                                system;

                         I.J.2.c.(i)(C) The date of each rod packing replacement, or
                                date of installation of a rod packing emissions
                                collection system and closed vent system;

                         I.J.2.c.(i)(D) Each cover and closed vent system inspection
                                and any resulting responsive actions; and

                         I.J.2.c.(i)(E) Each cover or closed vent system on the delay
                                of inspection or repair list, the reason for and duration
                                of the delay of inspection or repair, and the schedule
                                for inspecting or repairing such cover or closed vent
                                system.

           I.J.2.d. As an alternative to the inspection, repair, and recordkeeping
                   provisions in Sections I.J.2.b., I.J.2.c.(i)(D), and I.J.2.c.(i)(E), the
                   owner or operator may inspect, repair, and document the cover


                                                                                          49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                      and closed vent system in accordance with the leak detection and
                      repair program in Section I.L., including the inspection frequency.

             I.J.2.e. As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
                      recordkeeping provisions described in Sections I.J.2.a. through
                      I.J.2.d., the owner or operator may comply with reciprocating
                      compressor emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
                      reporting requirements of a New Source Performance Standard in
                      40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO for reciprocating compressors for
                      which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced
                      after August 23, 2011, and on or before September 18, 2015 (July
                      31, 2025); Subpart OOOOa for reciprocating compressors for
                      which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced
                      after September 18, 2015, and on or before December 6, 2022
                      (July 31, 2025); or Subpart OOOOb for reciprocating compressors
                      for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced
                      after December 6, 2022 (December 3, 2025).

             I.J.2.f. Compliance with the reciprocating compressor emission control,
                      inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions in Section II.K.
                      fulfills compliance with the VOC reduction, emission control,
                      monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements described
                      in Sections I.J.2.a. through I.J.2.c.

I.K.   Pneumatic pumps

       I.K.1. Beginning May 1, 2018, or July 1, 2023, if located in northern Weld
             County, the owner or operator of each natural gas-driven diaphragm
             pneumatic pump located at a natural gas processing plant must ensure
             the pneumatic pump has a volatile organic compound emission rate of
             zero.

       I.K.2. Beginning May 1, 2018, or July 1, 2023, if located in northern Weld
             County, the owner or operator of each natural gas-driven diaphragm
             pneumatic pump located at a well production facility must reduce volatile


                                                                                           50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           organic compound emissions from the pneumatic pump by 95% if it is
           technically feasible to route emissions to an existing control device or
           process at the well production facility. Natural gas-driven diaphragm
           pneumatic pumps that are in operation during any period of time during a
           calendar day less than 90 days per calendar year are not subject to
           Section I.K.2.

           I.K.2.a. If the control device available onsite is unable to achieve a 95%
                   emission reduction and it is not technically feasible to route the
                   emissions to a process at the well production facility, the owner or
                   operator must still route the pneumatic pump emissions to the
                   existing control device.

           I.K.2.b. If the owner or operator subsequently installs a control device or it
                   becomes technically feasible to route the emissions to a process,
                   the owner or operator must reduce volatile organic compound
                   emissions from the pneumatic pump by 95% within thirty (30)
                   days of startup of the control device or of the feasibility of routing
                   emissions to a process at the well production facility.

           I.K.2.c. The owner or operator is not required to control pneumatic pump
                   emissions if, through an engineering assessment by a qualified
                   professional engineer, routing a pneumatic pump to a control
                   device or process at the well production facility is shown to be
                   technically infeasible.

           I.K.2.d. If the owner or operator uses a control device or routes emissions
                   to a process to reduce emissions, the owner or operator must
                   connect the pneumatic pump through a closed vent system that
                   routes the pneumatic pump emissions to the process or control
                   device.

           I.K.2.e. The owner or operator must conduct annual visual inspections of
                   the closed vent system for defects that could result in air
                   emissions. Defects of the closed vent system include, but are not


                                                                                        51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   limited to, visible cracks, holes, gaps in piping, loose connections,
                   liquid leaks, or broken or missing caps or other closure devices.

           I.K.2.f. The owner or operators must conduct annual EPA Method 21
                   (August 3, 2017) inspections of the closed vent system to
                   determine whether the closed vent system operates with volatile
                   organic compound emissions less than 500 ppm.

           I.K.2.g. In the event that a defect that could result in air emissions or leak
                   is detected, the owner or operator must make a first attempt to
                   repair no later than five (5) days after detecting the defect or leak
                   and complete repair no later than thirty (30) days after detecting
                   the defect or leak.

           I.K.2.h. Owners or operators may delay inspection or repair of a closed
                   vent system if:

                  I.K.2.h.(i)       Repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown. If
                          shutdown is required, a repair attempt must be made during
                          the next scheduled shutdown and final repair completed
                          within two (2) years after discovery.

                  I.K.2.h.(ii)      The closed vent system is unsafe to inspect or repair
                          because personnel would be exposed to an immediate
                          danger as a consequence of completing the inspection or
                          repair.

                  I.K.2.h.(iii)     The closed vent system is difficult to inspect or repair
                          because personnel must be elevated more than two (2)
                          meters above a supported surface or are unable to inspect
                          or repair via a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic type scaffold
                          that allows access up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the
                          ground.




                                                                                          52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.K.2.h.(iv)    The closed vent system is inaccessible to inspect or
                          repair because the closed vent system is buried, insulated,
                          or obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access.

     I.K.3. Recordkeeping

           I.K.3.a. Owners or operators must maintain the following records for at
                    least five (5) years and make records available to the Division
                    upon request:

                  I.K.3.a.(i)     Identification of each natural gas-driven diaphragm
                          pneumatic pump;

                  I.K.3.a.(ii)    For natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps
                          in operation less than 90 days per calendar year, records of
                          the days of operation each calendar year;

                  I.K.3.a.(iii)   Records of control devices designed to achieve less
                          than 95% emission reduction, including an evaluation or
                          manufacturer specifications indicating the percentage
                          reduction the control device is designed to achieve;

                  I.K.3.a.(iv)    Records of the engineering assessment and
                          certification by a qualified professional engineer that routing
                          natural gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pump emissions to
                          a control device or process is technically infeasible;

                  I.K.3.a.(v)     Each closed vent system inspection and any resulting
                          responsive actions; and

                  I.K.3.a.(vi)    Each closed vent system on the delay of inspection or
                          repair list, the reason for and duration of the delay of
                          inspection or repair, and the schedule for inspecting or
                          repairing such closed vent system.

     I.K.4. As an alternative to the inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions in
           Sections I.K.2.e. through I.K.2.h., I.K.3.a.(v), and I.K.3.a.(vi), the owner or
           operator may inspect, repair, and document the closed vent system in


                                                                                        53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              accordance with the leak detection and repair program in Section I.L.,
              including the inspection frequency.

       I.K.5. As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
              recordkeeping provisions described in Sections I.K.1. through I.K.4., the
              owner or operator may comply with natural gas-driven diaphragm
              pneumatic pump emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
              reporting requirements of a New Source Performance Standard in 40 CFR
              Part 60 (November 16, 2017).

       I.K.6. Compliance with the natural gas-driven pneumatic pump emission control,
              inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions in Section III.G. fulfills
              compliance with the VOC reduction, emission control, monitoring,
              recordkeeping, and reporting requirements described in Sections I.K.1.
              through I.K.3.

I.L.   Leak detection and repair program for well production facilities and natural gas
       compressor stations located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld
       County, or centralized oil stabilization facilities specified in Section I.A.3.

       I.L.1. Natural gas compressor stations

              I.L.1.a. Beginning June 30, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                       northern Weld County, owners or operators of natural gas
                       compressor stations must inspect components for leaks using an
                       approved instrument monitoring method at least quarterly.

              I.L.1.b. Owners or operators of natural gas compressor stations
                       constructed on or after June 30, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if
                       located in northern Weld County, must conduct an initial
                       inspection for leaks from components using an approved
                       instrument monitoring method no later than ninety (90) days after
                       the facility commences operation. Thereafter, approved instrument
                       monitoring method inspections must be conducted at least
                       quarterly.



                                                                                            54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            I.L.1.c. Beginning May 1, 2026, owners or operators of transmission and
                    storage segment natural gas compressor stations specified in
                    Section I.A.5. must inspect components for leaks using an
                    approved instrument monitoring method at least quarterly.

     I.L.2. Well production facilities

            I.L.2.a. Beginning June 30, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                    northern Weld County, owners or operators of well production
                    facilities with uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound
                    emissions greater than or equal to one (1) ton per year and less
                    than or equal to six (6) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-
                    month total, must inspect components for leaks using an
                    approved instrument monitoring method at least annually.

            I.L.2.b. Beginning June 30, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                    northern Weld County, owners or operators of well production
                    facilities with uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound
                    emissions greater than six (6) tons per year, based on a rolling
                    twelve-month total, must inspect components for leaks using an
                    approved instrument monitoring method at least semi-annually.

            I.L.2.c. For purposes of Sections I.L.2.a. and I.L.2.b., the estimated
                    uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound emissions from the
                    highest emitting storage tank at the well production facility
                    determines the frequency at which inspections must be
                    performed. If no storage tanks storing oil or condensate are
                    located at the well production facility, owners or operators must
                    rely on the facility emissions (controlled actual volatile organic
                    compound emissions from all permanent equipment, including
                    emissions from components determined by utilizing the emission
                    factors defined as less than 10,000 ppmv of Table 2-8 of the 1995
                    EPA Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates).




                                                                                         55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            I.L.2.d. Owners or operators of well production facilities constructed on or
                    after June 30, 2018, or February 14, 2023, if located in northern
                    Weld County, must conduct an initial inspection for leaks from
                    components using an approved instrument monitoring method no
                    sooner than fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty (30) days
                    after the facility commences operation. Thereafter, approved
                    instrument monitoring method inspections must be conducted in
                    accordance with Sections I.L.2.a. and I.L.2.b.

            I.L.2.e. Beginning April 1, 2023, owners or operators of centralized oil
                    stabilization facilities specified in Section I.A.3. must inspect
                    components for leaks using an approved instrument monitoring
                    method at least quarterly.

     I.L.3. If a component is unsafe, difficult, or inaccessible to monitor, the owner or
            operator is not required to monitor the component until it becomes feasible
            to do so.

            I.L.3.a. Difficult to monitor components are those that cannot be
                    monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than
                    two (2) meters above a supported surface or are unable to be
                    reached via a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic type scaffold that
                    allows access to components up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the
                    ground.

            I.L.3.b. Unsafe to monitor components are those that cannot be
                    monitored without exposing monitoring personnel to an immediate
                    danger as a consequence of completing the monitoring.

            I.L.3.c. Inaccessible to monitor components are those that are buried,
                    insulated, or obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents
                    access to the components by monitoring personnel.

     I.L.4. Leaks requiring repair: Only leaks from components exceeding the
            thresholds in Section I.L.4. require repair under Section I.L.5.



                                                                                         56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.L.4.a. For EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) monitoring, repair is required
                   for leaks with any concentration of hydrocarbon above 500 ppm
                   not associated with normal equipment operation, such as
                   pneumatic device actuation and crank case ventilation.

           I.L.4.b. For infra-red camera monitoring, repair is required for leaks with
                   any detectable emissions not associated with normal equipment
                   operation, such as pneumatic device actuation and crank case
                   ventilation.

           I.L.4.c. For other approved instrument monitoring methods or programs,
                   leak identification requiring repair will be established as set forth in
                   an approval under Section I.L.8.

           I.L.4.d. For leaks identified using an approved non-quantitative instrument
                   monitoring method, owners or operators have the option of either
                   repairing the leak in accordance with the repair schedule set forth
                   in Section I.L.5. or conducting follow-up monitoring using EPA
                   Method 21 (August 3, 2017) within five (5) working days of the
                   leak detection. If the follow-up EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017)
                   monitoring shows that the emission is a leak requiring repair as
                   set forth in Section I.L.4.a., the leak must be repaired and
                   remonitored in accordance with Section I.L.5.

           I.L.4.e. Owners or operators must maintain and operate approved non-
                   quantitative instrument monitoring methods according to
                   manufacturer recommendations.

     I.L.5. Repair and remonitoring

           I.L.5.a. First attempt to repair a leak must be made no later than five (5)
                   working days after discovery and completed no later than thirty
                   (30) working days after discovery, unless parts are unavailable,
                   the equipment requires shutdown to complete repair, or other
                   good cause exists.



                                                                                         57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.L.5.a.(i)     If parts are unavailable, they must be ordered
                          promptly and the repair must be made within fifteen (15)
                          working days of receipt of the parts.

                  I.L.5.a.(ii)    If shutdown is required, a repair attempt must be
                          made during the next scheduled shutdown and final repair
                          completed within two (2) years after discovery.

                  I.L.5.a.(iii)   If delay is attributable to other good cause, repairs
                          must be completed within fifteen (15) working days after the
                          cause of delay ceases to exist.

           I.L.5.b. Within fifteen (15) working days of completion of a repair the leak
                   must be remonitored using an approved instrument monitoring
                   method to verify that the repair was effective.

           I.L.5.c. Leaks discovered pursuant to the leak detection methods of
                   Section I.L.4. are not subject to enforcement by the Division
                   unless the owner or operator fails to perform the required repairs
                   in accordance with Section I.L.5. or keep required records in
                   accordance with Section I.L.6.

     I.L.6. Recordkeeping

           I.L.6.a. Documentation of the initial approved instrument monitoring
                   method inspection for well production facilities and natural gas
                   compressor stations;

           I.L.6.b. The date, facility name, and facility AIRS ID or facility location if
                   the facility does not have an AIRS ID for each inspection;

           I.L.6.c. A list of the leaks requiring repair and the monitoring method(s)
                   used to determine the presence of the leak;

           I.L.6.d. The date of first attempt to repair the leak and, if necessary, any
                   additional attempt to repair;

           I.L.6.e. The date the leak was repaired and type of repair method applied;



                                                                                            58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.L.6.f. The delayed repair list, including the date and duration of any
                    period where the repair of a leak was delayed due to unavailable
                    parts, required shutdown, or delay for other good cause, the basis
                    for the delay, and the schedule for repairing the leak. Delay of
                    repair beyond thirty (30) days after initial discovery due to
                    unavailable parts must be reviewed, and a record kept of that
                    review, by a representative of the owner or operator with
                    responsibility for leak detection and repair compliance functions.
                    This review will not be made by the individual making the initial
                    determination to place a part on the delayed repair list;

           I.L.6.g. The date the leak was remonitored and the results of the
                    remonitoring; and

           I.L.6.h. A list of components that are designated as unsafe, difficult, or
                    inaccessible to monitor, as described in Section I.L.3., an
                    explanation stating why the component is so designated, and the
                    schedule for monitoring such component(s).

           I.L.6.i. Records must be maintained for a minimum of five years and made
                    available to the Division upon request.

     I.L.7. Reporting: The owner or operator of each facility subject to the leak
           detection and repair requirements in Section I.L. must submit a single
           annual report on or before May 31st of each year (beginning May 31st,
           2019, or May 31st, 2024, if located in northern Weld County or a
           centralized oil stabilization facilities specified in Section I.A.3 (or beginning
           May 31st, 2027, if a transmission and storage segment natural gas
           compressor station specified in Section I.A.5.) that includes, at a
           minimum, the following information regarding leak detection and repair
           activities at their subject facilities conducted the previous calendar year:

           I.L.7.a. The total number of well production facilities, total number of
                    natural gas compressor stations inspected, and total number of
                    centralized oil stabilization facilities inspected;


                                                                                          59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.L.7.b. The total number of inspections performed per inspection
                   frequency tier of well production facilities, the total number of
                   inspections performed at natural gas compressor stations, and the
                   total number of inspections performed at centralized oil
                   stabilization facilities;




                                                                                       60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.L.7.c. The total number of identified leaks requiring repair broken out by
                   component type, monitoring method, and inspection frequency tier
                   of well production facility as reported in Section I.L.7.b., the total
                   number of identified leaks requiring repair at natural gas
                   compressor stations broken out by component type and
                   monitoring method, and the total number of identified leaks
                   requiring repair at centralized oil stabilization facilities broken out
                   by component type and monitoring method;

           I.L.7.d. The total number of leaks repaired for each inspection frequency
                   tier of well production facilities as reported in Section I.L.7.b., the
                   total number of leaks repaired for natural gas compressor
                   stations, and the total number of leaks repaired for centralized oil
                   stabilization facilities;

           I.L.7.e. The total number of leaks on the delayed repair list as of
                   December 31st broken out by component type, inspection
                   frequency tier of well production facility as reported in Section
                   I.L.7.b.; natural gas compressor station, or centralized oil
                   stabilization facilities, and the basis for each delay of repair;

           I.L.7.f. The record of all reviews conducted for delayed repairs due to
                   unavailable parts extending beyond 30 days for the previous
                   calendar year; and

           I.L.7.g. Each report shall be accompanied by a certification by a
                   responsible official that, based on information and belief formed
                   after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the
                   document are true, accurate, and complete.

     I.L.8. Alternative approved instrument monitoring methods may be used in lieu
           of, or in combination with an infra-red camera, EPA Method 21 (August 3,
           2017), or other approved instrument monitoring method to inspect for
           leaks as required by Section I.L., if the following conditions are met:




                                                                                         61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.L.8.a. The proponent of the alternative approved instrument monitoring
                   method applies for a determination of an alternative approved
                   instrument monitoring method or program. The application must
                   include, at a minimum, the following:

                 I.L.8.a.(i)    The proposed alternative approved instrument
                         monitoring method manufacturer information;

                 I.L.8.a.(ii)   A description of the proposed alternative approved
                         instrument monitoring method including, but not limited to:

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(A) Whether the proposed alternative approved
                                instrument monitoring method is a quantitative
                                detection method, and how emissions are quantified,
                                or qualitative leak detection method;

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(B) Whether the proposed alternative approved
                                instrument monitoring method is commercially
                                available;

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(C) Whether the proposed alternative approved
                                instrument monitoring method is approved by other
                                regulatory authorities and for what application (e.g.,
                                pipeline monitoring, emissions detected);

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(D) The leak detection capabilities, reliability, and
                                limitations of the proposed alternative approved
                                instrument monitoring method, including, but not
                                limited to, the ability to identify specific leaks or
                                locations, detection limits, and any restrictions on use,
                                as well as supporting data;

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(E) The frequency of measurements and data
                                logging capabilities of the proposed alternative
                                approved instrument monitoring method;




                                                                                         62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(F) Data quality indicators for precision and bias of
                                 the proposed alternative approved instrument
                                 monitoring method;

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(G) Quality control and quality assurance
                                 procedures necessary to ensure proper operation of
                                 the proposed alternative approved instrument
                                 monitoring method;

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(H) A description of where, when, and how the
                                 proposed alternative approved instrument monitoring
                                 method will be used; and

                         I.L.8.a.(ii)(I) Documentation (e.g., field or test data,
                                 modeling) adequate to demonstrate the proposed
                                 alternative approved instrument monitoring method or
                                 program is capable of achieving emission reductions
                                 that are at least as effective as the emission
                                 reductions achieved by the leak detection and repair
                                 provisions in Section I.L.

                 I.L.8.a.(iii)   The Division will transmit a copy of the complete
                         application and any other materials provided by the applicant
                         to EPA.

                 I.L.8.a.(iv)    Public notice of the application is provided pursuant to
                         Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.C.4.

                 I.L.8.a.(v)     The Division and the EPA approves the proposal. The
                         Division will transmit a copy of the application and any other
                         materials provided by the applicant, all public comments, all
                         Division responses and the Division’s approval to EPA
                         Region 8. If EPA fails to approve or disapprove the proposal
                         within six (6) months of receipt of these materials, EPA will
                         be deemed to have approved the proposal.



                                                                                         63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

I.M.   Storage tank hydrocarbon liquids loadout requirements at class II disposal well
       facilities specified in Section I.A.4., well production facilities, natural gas
       compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants.

       I.M.1. Owners or operators of well production facilities, natural gas compressor
              stations, and natural gas processing plants with a hydrocarbon liquids
              loadout to transport vehicles throughput of greater than or equal to 5,000
              barrels per year on a rolling 12-month basis must control emissions from
              the loadout of hydrocarbon liquids from controlled storage tanks to
              transport vehicles by using (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection
              and return system and/or air pollution control equipment.

              Owners or operators of class II disposal well facilities with VOC emissions
              from hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles greater than or
              equal to two (2) tons uncontrolled actual emissions per year on a rolling
              12-month basis must control emissions from the loadout of hydrocarbon
              liquids from storage tanks to transport vehicles by using (a) submerged fill
              and (b) a vapor collection and return system and/or air pollution control
              equipment.

              I.M.1.a. Compliance with Section I.M. must be achieved in accordance
                       with the following schedule.

                     I.M.1.a.(i)    Facilities constructed or modified on or after February
                             14, 2023, must be in compliance by commencement of
                             operation

                     I.M.1.a.(ii)   Well production facilities, natural gas compressor
                             stations, and natural gas processing plants that exceed the
                             hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles throughput
                             of greater than or equal to 5,000 barrels per year on a rolling
                             12-month basis on or after February 14, 2023, must control
                             emissions from loadout upon exceeding the loadout
                             threshold.




                                                                                          64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.M.1.a.(iii)   Class II disposal well facilities that exceed the
                         hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles emissions
                         threshold of greater than or equal to two (2) tons
                         uncontrolled actual VOC emissions per year on a rolling 12-
                         month basis on or after February 14, 2023, must control
                         emissions from loadout within sixty (60) days of the first day
                         of the month after which loadout emissions exceeded the
                         loadout threshold.

           I.M.1.b. Storage tanks must operate without venting at all times during
                   loadout.

           I.M.1.c. The owner or operator must, as applicable

                 I.M.1.c.(i)     Install and operate the vapor collection and return
                         equipment to collect vapors during the loadout of
                         hydrocarbon liquids to tank compartments of outbound
                         transport vehicles and to route the vapors to the storage tank
                         or air pollution control equipment.

                 I.M.1.c.(ii)    Include devices to prevent the release of vapor from
                         vapor recovery hoses not in use.

                 I.M.1.c.(iii)   Use operating procedures to ensure that hydrocarbon
                         liquids cannot be transferred to transport vehicles unless the
                         vapor collection and return system is in use.

                 I.M.1.c.(iv)    Operate all recovery and disposal equipment at a
                         back-pressure less than the pressure relief valve setting of
                         transport vehicles.

                 I.M.1.c.(v)     The owner or operator must inspect onsite loading
                         equipment to ensure that hoses, couplings, and valves are
                         maintained to prevent dripping, leaking, or other liquid or
                         vapor loss during loadout. These inspections must occur at




                                                                                        65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              least monthly, unless loadout occurs less frequently, then as
                              often as loadout is occurring.

               I.M.1.d. Owners or operators must retain records for at least five (5) years
                       and make such records available to the Division upon request.

                      I.M.1.d.(i)     Records of the annual facility hydrocarbon liquids
                              loadout to transport vehicles throughput.

                      I.M.1.d.(ii)    Records of class II disposal well facility VOC
                              emissions from hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport
                              vehicles on a rolling 12-month basis.

                      I.M.1.d.(iii)   Records of the frequency of loadout.

                      I.M.1.d.(iv)    Inspections, including a description of any problems
                              found and their resolution, required under Section I.M.1.c.(v)
                              must be documented in a log.

                      I.M.1.d.(v)     Air pollution control equipment used to comply with
                              this Section I.M. must comply with Section I.C.1, be
                              inspected in accordance with Sections I.E.2.c.(i), I.E.2.c.(ii),
                              and I.E.2.c.(iv), and achieve a hydrocarbon control efficiency
                              of 95%.

II.     (State Only) Statewide Controls for Oil and Gas Operations
II.A.   (State Only) Definitions

        II.A.1. “Air Pollution Control Equipment,” as used in this Section II., means a
               combustion device or vapor recovery unit. Air pollution control equipment
               also means alternative emissions control equipment and pollution
               prevention devices and processes intended to reduce uncontrolled actual
               emissions that comply with the requirements of Section II.B.2.e.

        II.A.2. “Approved Instrument Monitoring Method,” means an infra-red camera,
               EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017), or other Division approved instrument
               based monitoring method or program. If an owner or operator elects to



                                                                                             66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            use Division approved continuous emission monitoring, the Division may
            approve a streamlined inspection and reporting program for such
            operations, including approved instrument monitoring method and/or AVO
            inspections.

     II.A.3. “Auto-Igniter” means a device which will automatically attempt to relight
            the pilot flame in the combustion chamber of a control device in order to
            combust VOC emissions.

     II.A.4. “Blowdown” as used in Section II.H., means the depressurization of
            equipment or piping to reduce system pressure. Blowdown includes
            venting as defined in Section II.C.2.a.(i)(B) where the venting was
            intentional.

     II.A.5. “Centralized Well Production Facility” means all equipment located at a
            well production facility that includes one or more storage vessels and all
            equipment used to gather, for the purpose of sale or processing to sell,
            crude oil, condensate, produced water, or intermediate hydrocarbon liquid
            from one or more natural gas or oil production wells located at a separate
            surface site that is more than 0.25 miles away from the edge of the facility.

     II.A.6. “Centrifugal Compressor” means any machine used for raising the
            pressure of natural gas by drawing in low pressure natural gas and
            discharging significantly higher pressure natural gas by means of
            mechanical rotating vanes or impellers. Screw, sliding vane, and liquid ring
            compressors are not centrifugal compressors.

     II.A.7. “Class II Disposal Well Facility” means a facility that injects underground
            fluids which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas
            storage operations or oil or natural gas production and that may be
            commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part
            of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a
            hazardous waste at the time of injection. Class II disposal well facilities do
            not include wells which inject fluids for enhanced recovery of oil or natural




                                                                                           67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            gas or for storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard
            temperature and pressure.

     II.A.8. “Closed Liquids Containment System” as used in Section II.H. means an
            assembly of piping and valves that allow for the transfer of liquid from a
            pigging unit to a pipeline or pressurized vessel at the operating pressure
            of the midstream gathering pipeline.

     II.A.9. “Commencement of Operation” means when a source first conducts the
            activity that it was designed and permitted for. In addition, for oil and gas
            well production facilities, commencement of operation is the date any
            permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
            flowing to sales lines, gathering lines, or storage tanks from the first
            producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
            completion operations (including flowback).

     II.A.10.      “Component” means each pump seal, flange, pressure relief device
            (including thief hatches or other openings on a controlled storage tank),
            connector, and valve that contains or contacts a process stream with
            hydrocarbons, except for components in process streams consisting of
            glycol, amine, produced water, or methanol.

     II.A.11.      “Connector” means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used
            to connect two pipes or a pipe and a piece of process equipment or that
            close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined
            fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are
            not considered connectors.

     II.A.12.      “Crude Oil and Natural Gas Source Category” means (1) crude oil
            or condensate production, which includes the well and extends to the point
            of custody transfer to the crude oil transmission pipeline or any other
            forms of transportation; and (2) natural gas production, processing,
            transmission, and storage, which include the well and extend to, but do
            not include, the local distribution company custody transfer station.




                                                                                         68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.A.13.      “Disproportionately Impacted Community” (DI community) means
            census block groups designated as DI communities in CDPHE’s Data
            Viewer for Disproportionately Impacted Communities (as of December 17,
            2021), at
            https://cohealthviz.dphe.state.co.us/t/EnvironmentalEpidemiologyPublic/vi
            ews/EJActDICommunities-Public/HB21-
            1266DICommunities?%3AshowAppBanner=false&%3Adisplay_count=n&
            %3AshowVizHome=n&%3Aorigin=viz_share_link&%3AisGuestRedirectFr
            omVizportal=y&%3Aembed=y consistent with 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S.
            (2021). A complete list of these census block groups by 12-digit FIPS code
            will be maintained by the Division and made publicly available.

            II.A.13.a.   From January 30, 2022 to April 14, 2025, census block
                    groups designated as DI communities in CDPHE’s Data Viewer
                    for Disproportionately Impacted Communities (as of December 17,
                    2021), at
                    https://cohealthviz.dphe.state.co.us/t/EnvironmentalEpidemiology
                    Public/views/EJActDICommunities-Public/HB21-
                    1266DICommunities?%3AshowAppBanner=false&%3Adisplay_co
                    unt=n&%3AshowVizHome=n&%3Aorigin=viz_share_link&%3AisG
                    uestRedirectFromVizportal=y&%3Aembed=y consistent with 24-4-
                    109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (2021). A complete list of these census block
                    groups by 12-digit FIPS code will be maintained by the Division
                    and made publicly available.

            II.A.13.b.   Beginning April 14, 2025, communities that meet the
                    definition in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. (2023).
                    These communities are identified as any census block group
                    identified in the Disproportionately Impacted Community Map
                    (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
                    communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”, “People of
                    color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population



                                                                                      69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                      above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and
                      “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”.

     II.A.14.        “Dump Valve” means a liquid-control valve in a separator that
            controls liquid level within the separator vessel.

     II.A.15.        “Dump Event” means the opening of a dump valve allowing liquid to
            flow from a separator equipped with a dump valve to a storage tank.

     II.A.16.        “Glycol Natural Gas Dehydrator” means any device in which a liquid
            glycol (including ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, or triethylene glycol)
            absorbent directly contacts a natural gas stream and absorbs water.

     II.A.17.        “High-pressure Pigging Pipeline” as used in Section II.H. means a
            pigging pipeline with a normal operating pressure (average annual
            operating pressure) of 500 pounds per square inch gauge (psi) or greater.

     II.A.18.        “Hot Tapping” means a procedure that makes a new pipeline
            connection while the pipeline remains in service, flowing natural gas under
            pressure. The procedure involves attaching a branch connection and
            valve on the outside of an operating pipeline and then cutting out the pipe-
            line wall within the branch and removing the wall section through the
            valve.

     II.A.19.        “Hydrocarbon Liquid” means any naturally occurring, unrefined
            petroleum liquid. Hydrocarbon liquid does not include produced water.

     II.A.20.        “Infra-red Camera” means an optical gas imaging (OGI) instrument
            designed for and capable of detecting (or producing a detectable image
            of) hydrocarbons. The instrument must be capable of imaging a gas that is
            half methane, half propane at a concentration of 10,000 ppm at a flow rate
            of < 60 grams/hour from a quarter inch diameter orifice. The instrument
            must be capable of detecting at a viewing distance of 2 meters and a
            delta-T of 5 degrees Celsius in an environment of calm wind conditions
            around 1 meter per second or less.




                                                                                           70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.A.21.        “Jumper Line” means an enclosed piping system attached to the
            vent line or other connection of a pig launcher or receiver that routes the
            contents of a pig launcher or receiver into a lower pressure system.

     II.A.22.        “Midstream Pipeline” means the pipeline and metering and
            regulating equipment delivering oil or natural gas from an oil or gas well or
            well production facility to a stand-alone pigging station, natural gas
            compressor station, natural gas processing plant, transmission pipeline, or
            direct use. Midstream pipeline also means the pipeline and metering and
            regulating equipment delivering oil or natural gas from a natural gas
            compressor station to a stand-alone pigging station, natural gas
            processing plant, transmission pipeline, or direct use.

     II.A.23.        “Midstream Segment” means the oil and natural gas compression
            segment and the natural gas processing segment upstream of the natural
            gas transmission and storage segment.

     II.A.24.        “Natural Gas Compressor Station” means a facility, located
            downstream of well production facilities, which contains one or more
            compressors designed to compress natural gas from well pressure to
            gathering system pressure prior to the inlet of a natural gas processing
            plant.

     II.A.25.        “Natural Gas Processing Segment” means the operations engaged
            in the separation of natural gas liquids (NGLs) or non-methane gases from
            produced natural gas, or the separation of NGLs into one or more
            component mixtures. Separation includes one or more of the following:
            forced extraction of natural gas liquids, sulfur and carbon dioxide removal,
            fractionation of NGLs, or the capture of CO2 separated from natural gas
            streams. This segment also includes all residue gas compression
            equipment owned or operated by the natural gas processing plant.

     II.A.26.        “Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Segment” means onshore
            natural gas transmission pipelines, onshore natural gas transmission
            compression, underground natural gas storage, and liquefied natural gas


                                                                                       71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            (LNG) storage, as these terms are defined in 40 CFR Part 98, Section
            98.230 (October 22, 2015), that are physically located in Colorado.

     II.A.27.      “Normal Operation” means all periods of operation, excluding
            malfunctions as defined in Section I.G. of the Common Provisions
            regulation. For storage tanks at well production facilities, normal operation
            includes but is not limited to liquid dumps from the separator.

     II.A.28.      “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does
            not lie south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld
            County’s eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
            intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude,
            proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until
            this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s
            eastern boundary.

     II.A.29.      “Occupied Areas” means (1) a building or structure designed for
            use as a place of residency by a person, a family, or families. The term
            includes manufactured, mobile, and modular homes, except to the extent
            that any such manufactured, mobile, or modular home is intended for
            temporary occupancy or for business purposes; (2) indoor or outdoor
            spaces associated with a school that students use commonly as part of
            their curriculum or extracurricular activities; (3) five thousand (5,000) or
            more square feet of building floor area in commercial facilities that are
            operating and normally occupied during working hours; and (4) an outdoor
            venue or recreation area, such as a playground, permanent sports field,
            amphitheater, or other similar place of outdoor public assembly.

     II.A.30.      “Oil and Natural Gas Compression Segment” means the oil and
            natural gas compression, midstream pipelines, and other equipment used
            to collect oil and/or natural gas from gas or oil wells and used to
            compress, dehydrate, sweeten, or transport the oil and/or natural gas to a
            natural gas processing facility, a natural gas transmission pipeline, or to a
            natural gas distribution pipeline. For purposes of Section II., equipment


                                                                                           72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            located within the boundaries of a well production facility, including but not
            limited to compressors, is excluded from the oil and natural gas
            compression segment.

     II.A.31.      “Open-Ended Valve or Line” means any valve, except safety relief
            valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and
            one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.

     II.A.32.      “Pig Ramp” means a device installed inside the barrel of a pig
            receiver designed and intended to prevent liquid accumulation in the
            barrel and minimize release of volatile liquids into the environment during
            retrieval of the pig.

     II.A.33.      “Pigging” or “Pigging Operations” means the process of introducing
            or subsequently removing a specialized device (a “pig”) into or out of a
            natural gas pipeline to remove liquids or debris or for other purposes.

     II.A.34.      “Pigging Facility” means the facility from where a pig is launched or
            the facility where a pig is received, including standalone pigging stations,
            natural gas compressor stations, natural gas processing plants, well sites,
            or well production facilities.

     II.A.35.      “Pigging Pipeline” means a pipeline connected to a permanent or
            temporary pigging unit or any pipeline through which a pig is transported.

     II.A.36.      “Pigging Unit” means an individual pig launcher or receiver owned
            or operated by a midstream segment owner or operator where pigging
            occurs, including both permanent and temporary pig launchers and
            receivers.

     II.A.37.      “Pressure actuator system”, as used in Section II.B., means a
            system that monitors and records flow pressure to enclosed combustion
            device(s), automatically actuates a valve to open flow to the enclosed
            combustion device(s) at a pressure setpoint (“open point”), and
            automatically actuates the same valve to close flow to the enclosed
            combustion device(s) at a low pressure setpoint (“close point”). The



                                                                                        73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            pressure setpoints for the open point and close point are selected by the
            owner or operator.

     II.A.38.        “Process drain” as used in Section II.H. means an enclosed drain
            located on the underside of the pig receiver that drains liquids from the
            receiver into an enclosed system, process, or vessel.

     II.A.39.        “Produced Water” means water that is extracted from the earth from
            an oil or natural gas production well, or that is separated from crude oil,
            condensate, or natural gas after extraction.

     II.A.40.        “Reciprocating Compressor” means a piece of equipment that
            increases the pressure of process gas by positive displacement,
            employing linear movement of the piston rod.

     II.A.41.        “Stabilized” when used to refer to crude oil, condensate,
            intermediate hydrocarbon liquids, or produced water means that the vapor
            pressure of the liquid is sufficiently low to prevent the production of vapor
            phase upon transferring the liquid to an atmospheric pressure in a storage
            tank, and that any emissions that occur are limited to those commonly
            referred to within the industry as working, breathing, and standing losses.

     II.A.42.        “Standalone Pigging Station” means a pigging unit or group of co-
            located pigging units owned or operated by a midstream segment owner
            or operator but not located at a natural gas compressor station or natural
            gas processing plant.

     II.A.43.        “Storage Tank” means any fixed roof storage vessel or series of
            storage vessels that are manifolded together via liquid line. Storage tanks
            may be located at a well production facility or other location.

     II.A.44.        “Storage Tank Measurement System” means equipment and
            methods used to determine the quantity and quality of the liquids inside a
            storage tank without requiring direct access through the storage tank thief
            hatch.




                                                                                          74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.A.45.      “Storage Vessel” means a tank or other vessel that contains an
            accumulation of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water and is constructed
            primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel,
            fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support. A well completion
            vessel that receives recovered liquids from a well after commencement of
            operation for a period which exceeds 60 days is considered a storage
            vessel. Storage vessel does not include vessels that are skid-mounted or
            permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars,
            barges, or ships) and are intended to be located at the site for less than
            180 consecutive days; process vessels such as surge control vessels,
            bottom receivers, or knockout vessels; or pressure vessels designed to
            operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the
            atmosphere.

     II.A.46.      “Vapor Collection and Return System” means a closed system
            designed to control the release of VOCs displaced from a vessel during
            transfer of hydrocarbon liquids by using the transferred hydrocarbon
            liquids for direct displacement to force vapors from the vessel being
            loaded into either the storage tank being unloaded or to air pollution
            control equipment.

     II.A.47.      “Visible Emissions” means observations of smoke for any period or
            periods of duration greater than or equal to one (1) minute in any fifteen
            (15) minute period during normal operation, pursuant to EPA Method 22
            (January 14, 2019). Visible emissions do not include radiant energy or
            water vapor.

     II.A.48.      “Well Production Facility” means all equipment at a single stationary
            source directly associated with one or more oil wells or natural gas wells
            upstream of the natural gas processing plant. This equipment includes,
            but is not limited to, equipment used for storage, separation, treating,
            dehydration, artificial lift, combustion, compression, pumping, metering,
            monitoring, and flowline.



                                                                                          75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.A.49.      “Wellhead Only Well Production Facility” means a well production
               facility that has only equipment for a wellhead, including piping, casing,
               tubing, and/or connected valves protruding above the earth’s surface, and
               does not include other production or processing equipment used for
               storage, separation, treating, dehydration, combustion, compression,
               process control (if natural gas-driven), and pumping.

II.B.   (State Only) General Provisions

        II.B.1. General requirements for prevention of emissions and good air pollution
               control practices for all oil and gas exploration and production operations;
               Class II disposal well facilities; well production facilities; and midstream
               segment operations, including natural gas compressor stations and
               natural gas processing plants.

               II.B.1.a. All hydrocarbon liquids and produced water collection, storage,
                       processing, and handling operations, regardless of size, must be
                       designed, operated, and maintained so as to minimize emission of
                       VOCs and other hydrocarbons to the atmosphere to the extent
                       reasonably practicable.

               II.B.1.b. At all times, including periods of start-up and shutdown, the facility
                       and air pollution control equipment must be maintained and
                       operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control
                       practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether or
                       not acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being
                       used will be based on information available to the Division, which
                       may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity
                       observations, review of operation and maintenance procedures,
                       and inspection of the source.

        II.B.2. General requirements for air pollution control equipment used to comply
               with Section II.




                                                                                              76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.B.2.a. All air pollution control equipment must be operated and
                   maintained pursuant to the manufacturing specifications or
                   equivalent to the extent practicable, and consistent with
                   technological limitations and good engineering and maintenance
                   practices. The owner or operator must keep manufacturer
                   specifications or equivalent on file. In addition, all such air
                   pollution control equipment must be adequately designed and
                   sized to achieve the control efficiency rates and to handle
                   reasonably foreseeable fluctuations in emissions of VOCs and
                   other hydrocarbons during normal operations. Fluctuations in
                   emissions that occur when the separator dumps into the tank are
                   reasonably foreseeable.

           II.B.2.b. If a combustion device is used to control emissions of VOCs and
                   other hydrocarbons, it must be enclosed, have no visible
                   emissions during normal operation, and be designed so that an
                   observer can, by means of visual observation from the outside of
                   the enclosed combustion device, or by other means approved by
                   the Division, determine whether it is operating properly.

           II.B.2.c. Any of the effective dates for installation of controls on storage
                   tanks, dehydrators, and/or internal combustion engines may be
                   extended at the Division’s discretion for good cause shown.

           II.B.2.d. Auto-igniters: All combustion devices used to control emissions of
                   hydrocarbons must be equipped with and operate an auto-igniter
                   as follows

                  II.B.2.d.(i)    All combustion devices installed on or after May 1,
                          2014, must be equipped with an operational auto-igniter
                          upon installation of the combustion device.

                  II.B.2.d.(ii)   All combustion devices installed before May 1, 2014,
                          must be equipped with an operational auto-igniter by or




                                                                                          77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           before May 1, 2016, or after the next combustion device
                           planned shutdown, whichever comes first.

           II.B.2.e. Alternative emissions control equipment will qualify as air pollution
                   control equipment, and may be used in lieu of, or in combination
                   with, combustion devices and vapor recovery units to achieve the
                   emission reductions required by this Section II., if the Division
                   approves the equipment, device, or process. As part of the
                   approval process the Division, at its discretion, may specify a
                   different control efficiency than the control efficiencies required by
                   this Section II.

           II.B.2.f. Owners or operators must conduct weekly visual inspections of air
                   pollution control equipment.

                  II.B.2.f.(i)    Visual inspections must begin

                           II.B.2.f.(i)(A) February 14, 2022, for owners or operators of
                                  storage tanks subject to Section II.C.1.

                           II.B.2.f.(i)(B) May 1, 2022, for air pollution control equipment
                                  that commenced operation before February 14, 2022,
                                  unless subject to Section II.B.2.f.(i)(A).

                           II.B.2.f.(i)(C) Within thirty (30) days of commencement of
                                  operation for air pollution control equipment
                                  constructed on or after February 14, 2022.

                  II.B.2.f.(ii)   Weekly visual inspections must include, at a minimum

                           II.B.2.f.(ii)(A) Inspection or monitoring of each combustion
                                  device to ensure that it is operating, including that the
                                  pilot light is lit and the auto-igniter is properly
                                  functioning.

                           II.B.2.f.(ii)(B) Inspection or monitoring of each combustion
                                  device to ensure that the valves for the piping of gas
                                  to the pilot light are open and functioning properly.


                                                                                          78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.B.2.f.(ii)(C) Inspection or monitoring of each combustion
                              device to ensure the burner tray is not visibly clogged.

                       II.B.2.f.(ii)(D) Inspection of each combustion device for the
                              presence or absence of smoke. If smoke is observed,
                              either the equipment must be immediately shut-in to
                              investigate the potential cause for smoke and perform
                              repairs, as necessary, or EPA Method 22 (January 14,
                              2019) must be conducted to determine whether
                              visible emissions are present for a period of at least
                              one (1) minute in fifteen (15) minutes.

                       II.B.2.f.(ii)(E) Inspection or monitoring of each vapor
                              recovery unit to ensure that the unit is operating and
                              that vapors are being routed to the unit.

                       II.B.2.f.(ii)(F) Inspection or monitoring of air pollution control
                              equipment to ensure that valves for the piping of gas
                              to the air pollution control equipment are open.

                       II.B.2.f.(ii)(G) Recording the flow meter readings or pressure
                              actuator system data, once installed pursuant to
                              Section II.B.2.g.(i). For flow meter readings, this must
                              include the maximum and minimum measured flow
                              rate since the previous weekly visual inspection. For
                              pressure actuator system data, this must include the
                              maximum and minimum measured pressures while
                              the actuator valve is open since the previous weekly
                              visual inspection. An owner or operator may use
                              automation to continuously record flow and/or
                              pressure to the enclosed combustion devices(s) for
                              which flow meters or pressure actuator system are
                              required under Section II.B.2.g.




                                                                                       79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.B.2.g. Owners or operators must install and operate either flow meter(s)
                   or a pressure actuator system at the inlet to the enclosed
                   combustion device or bank of enclosed combustion devices,
                   ensuring that the flow meter(s) or pressure actuator system
                   measures the flow rate or pressure of all flow streams to the
                   device or bank of enclosed combustion devices.

                 II.B.2.g.(i)     Unless an extension is authorized by the Division for
                         good cause, flow meter(s) or a pressure actuator system
                         must be installed and operating by

                         II.B.2.g.(i)(A) December 31, 2022, for enclosed combustion
                                  devices in disproportionately impacted communities,
                                  as defined in Section II.A.11.a., that commenced
                                  operation before February 14, 2022

                         II.B.2.g.(i)(B) May 1, 2023, for enclosed combustion devices
                                  not subject to Section II.B.2.g.(i)(A) that commenced
                                  operation before February 14, 2022.

                         II.B.2.g.(i)(C) Commencement of operation for enclosed
                                  combustion devices that commence operation on or
                                  after February 14, 2022.

                 II.B.2.g.(ii)    The owner or operator must calibrate and maintain
                         the flow meter(s) and pressure actuator system in
                         accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and
                         schedule, if available, or otherwise in accordance with
                         generally accepted calibration and maintenance practices.

                 II.B.2.g.(iii)   Flow meters or a pressure actuator system are not
                         required to be installed

                         II.B.2.g.(iii)(A)     On portable enclosed combustion
                                  devices used at a location for less than 180




                                                                                      80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                   consecutive days and which are used for time-limited
                                   activities or backup purposes.

                         II.B.2.g.(iii)(B)        On enclosed combustion devices used
                                   during vapor recovery unit downtime associated with
                                   dehydrators.

                         II.B.2.g.(iii)(C)        Where installation and operation of a
                                   flow meter or pressure actuator system is technically
                                   or economically infeasible, as demonstrated by the
                                   owner or operator to the Division’s reasonable
                                   satisfaction, or where the Division approves the use of
                                   an alternate parameter (and associated
                                   recordkeeping and reporting).

           II.B.2.h. Beginning February 14, 2022, the owner or operator must conduct
                   performance tests for each enclosed combustion device for which
                   Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections I.D., II.B.3.b., II.C.1., II.D.,
                   or II.F. requires the device to achieve at least 95% control
                   efficiency for hydrocarbons. A performance test that does not
                   demonstrate that an enclosed combustion device is achieving at
                   least 95% control efficiency for hydrocarbons is considered a
                   failing test.

                 II.B.2.h.(i)      Performance test requirements.

                         II.B.2.h.(i)(A) Performance tests are not required for
                                   enclosed combustion devices serving solely as
                                   limited-use control devices during vapor recovery unit
                                   downtime.

                         II.B.2.h.(i)(B) Owners or operators must test all enclosed
                                   combustion devices used to control the same piece of
                                   equipment or operation (e.g., a bank of enclosed
                                   combustion devices controlling a storage tank) over



                                                                                          81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              the course of the same testing event, which may
                              occur over multiple working days.

                       II.B.2.h.(i)(C) Performance tests must be conducted in
                              accordance with a Division-approved test protocol.

                       II.B.2.h.(i)(D) With enough time to calibrate and ensure
                              proper reading from the flow meter prior to each
                              performance test conducted under Section II.B.2.h.
                              and continuing through the performance test, owner
                              or operators must install and operate a flow meter on
                              the inlet to each enclosed combustion device to be
                              tested, unless not required by the Division-approved
                              performance test protocol. Temporary flow meters
                              may be used to meet this requirement.

                       II.B.2.h.(i)(E) For the calendar year of a failing performance
                              test, owners or operators must calculate enclosed
                              combustion device emissions (or the emissions for
                              the source controlled) pursuant to Sections II.G. and
                              V. with the results of the failed test until the enclosed
                              combustion device is back in compliance as
                              confirmed by the passing retest under Section
                              II.B.2.h.(i)(G).

                       II.B.2.h.(i)(F) Owners or operators of enclosed combustion
                              devices that fail a performance test must, within thirty
                              (30) days, follow the manufacturer’s repair
                              instructions, if available, or best combustion
                              engineering practices to return the device to
                              compliant operation or shut-in all equipment or
                              operations controlled by the enclosed combustion
                              device.




                                                                                      82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.B.2.h.(i)(G) Owners or operators must retest the enclosed
                                 combustion device within ninety (90) days of
                                 corrective action in response to a failed test or within
                                 thirty (30) days of return to operation if the equipment
                                 or operations controlled by the enclosed combustion
                                 device were shut-in as a response to a failed test.
                                 Division approval of the testing protocol is not
                                 required for a retest where.

                                 II.B.2.h.(i)(G)(1)    The owner or operator is
                                        following the same test protocol as the original,
                                        failed test and

                                 II.B.2.h.(i)(G)(2)    Conditions have not materially
                                        changed such that a new test protocol would
                                        be required.

                         II.B.2.h.(i)(H) As an alternative to Section II.B.2.h.(i)(G), the
                                 owner or operator may replace the failing enclosed
                                 combustion device with a different enclosed
                                 combustion device and test the replacement enclosed
                                 combustion device upon commencement of
                                 operation. The owner or operator does not have to
                                 test the replacement enclosed combustion device if
                                 the device is newly manufactured (has never been in
                                 operation anywhere else) and has been tested by the
                                 manufacturer in accordance with the requirements of
                                 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section
                                 60.5413a(d) (July 31, 2025).

                 II.B.2.h.(ii)   Initial performance test schedule.

                         II.B.2.h.(ii)(A) Enclosed combustion devices that commenced
                                 operation before December 31, 2021, must be tested




                                                                                         83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             within the schedule in Table 1, unless the Division
                             approves an alternative testing schedule.




                                                                                   84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission



                     Table 1 – Enclosed Combustion Device Inspections

                                                         Compliance deadlines

                                     October October May 1, May 1,           May 1,     May 1,
   Location of enclosed              31,         31,        2025    2026     2027       2028
   combustion device                 2023        2024

                                           Percentage (%) of owner or operator’s enclosed
                                               combustion devices that must be tested

   Within a DI community             At least    At least   At      100%     NA         NA
                                     15%         40%        least
                                                            70%

   Within a DI community as                                                  100%
   determined pursuant to
   Section II.B.2.h.(iv)(D) if not
   already located within a DI
   community

   Within the 8-hour ozone           At least    At least   At      At       100%       NA
   control area and northern         10%         30%        least   least
   Weld County                                              50%     80%

   Outside the 8-hour ozone          At least    At least   At      At       At         100%
   control area and northern         5%          15%        least   least    least
   Weld County                                              30%     50%      75%

                             II.B.2.h.(ii)(B) A performance test conducted in accordance
                                     with Division-approved test protocol between January
                                     1, 2020, and October 31, 2023, will satisfy the initial
                                     performance testing requirements in Section
                                     II.B.2.h.(ii)(A).




                                                                                               85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.B.2.h.(ii)(C) Enclosed combustion devices that commence
                                  operation on or after December 31, 2021, must be
                                  tested within two (2) years after commencement of
                                  operation, unless the enclosed combustion device is
                                  newly manufactured (has never been in operation)
                                  and has been tested by the manufacturer in
                                  accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR Part 60,
                                  Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(d) (July 31,
                                  2025), in which case the enclosed combustion device
                                  must be tested within five (5) years after
                                  commencement of operation.

                         II.B.2.h.(ii)(D) No enclosed combustion device located in the
                                  8-hour ozone control area and northern Weld County
                                  or in a disproportionately impacted community can
                                  operate for more than five (5) years without a
                                  performance test.

                         II.B.2.h.(ii)(E) No enclosed combustion device located
                                  outside the 8-hour ozone control area and northern
                                  Weld County but not within a disproportionately
                                  impacted community can operate for more than ten
                                  (10) years without a performance test.

                         II.B.2.h.(ii)(F) Owners or operators do not have to start up a
                                  source solely to perform a performance test on the
                                  enclosed combustion device if gas flow to the device
                                  is from a source or equipment that has been shut-in
                                  for more than thirty (30) consecutive days; however, a
                                  performance test is required within thirty (30) days of
                                  the enclosed combustion device once again receiving
                                  gas flow.

                 II.B.2.h.(iii)   Notification.


                                                                                        86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         No later than July 31, 2022, owners or operators of enclosed
                         combustion devices subject to Section II.B.2.h.(ii) must
                         submit a notification to the Division with the following
                         information.

                         II.B.2.h.(iii)(A)     A list of all enclosed combustion devices
                                 that commenced operation before December 31,
                                 2021, with associated facility name and location, AIRS
                                 ID (if assigned), manufacturer model, serial number (if
                                 available, or other unique identifier), and identification
                                 of equipment controlled by the enclosed combustion
                                 device.

                         II.B.2.h.(iii)(B)     The year in which each enclosed
                                 combustion device will be tested to meet the
                                 compliance schedule in Table 1.

                         II.B.2.h.(iii)(C)     A list of enclosed combustion devices
                                 where the initial performance test requirement is
                                 satisfied pursuant to Section II.B.2.h.(ii)(B), including
                                 the date and results of the test.

                 II.B.2.h.(iv)   Subsequent performance tests.

                         II.B.2.h.(iv)(A)      Enclosed combustion devices located in
                                 the 8-hour ozone control area and northern Weld
                                 County must be tested within five (5) years following
                                 the previous performance test, unless the enclosed
                                 combustion device is newly manufactured (has never
                                 been in operation) and has been tested by the
                                 manufacturer in accordance with the requirements of
                                 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa, Section
                                 60.5413a(d) (July 31, 2025), in which case the
                                 enclosed combustion device must be tested within




                                                                                         87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                               eight (8) years following the previous performance
                               test.

                        II.B.2.h.(iv)(B)     Enclosed combustion devices located
                               within a disproportionately impacted community must
                               be tested within five (5) years following the previous
                               performance test, unless the enclosed combustion
                               device is newly manufactured (has never been in
                               operation) and has been tested by the manufacturer
                               in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR Part
                               60, Subpart OOOOa, Section 60.5413a(d) (July 31,
                               2025), in which case the enclosed combustion device
                               must be tested within eight (8) years following the
                               previous performance test.

                        II.B.2.h.(iv)(C)     Enclosed combustion devices located
                               outside the 8-hour ozone control area and northern
                               Weld County and not within a disproportionately
                               impacted community must be tested within ten (10)
                               years following the previous performance test.

                        II.B.2.h.(iv)(D)     Beginning April 14, 2025,
                               disproportionately impacted community is defined as
                               in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or operator must
                               assess by December 31, 2025, whether the enclosed
                               combustion device is located within a
                               disproportionately impacted community to determine
                               the schedule for subsequent performance tests

           II.B.2.i. Recordkeeping.

                 Except as specified in Section II.B.2.i.(ix), the owner or operator
                 must maintain records for a period of five (5) years and make them
                 available to the Division upon request, including




                                                                                       88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.B.2.i.(i)      Notifications submitted in accordance with Section
                          II.B.2.h.(iii).

                 II.B.2.i.(ii)     Records of the make, model, serial number or other
                          unique identifier, and AIRS ID (if assigned) of each enclosed
                          combustion device; associated facility name and location;
                          and the range of gas flow at which the combustion device is
                          designed to operate.

                 II.B.2.i.(iii)    Records of visual inspections conducted pursuant to
                          Section II.B.2.f., including the time and date of each
                          inspection and a description of any problems observed,
                          description and date of any corrective action(s) taken, and
                          name of employee or third party performing corrective
                          action(s).

                 II.B.2.i.(iv)     Records of the date and result of any EPA Method 22
                          (January 14, 2019) test or investigation.

                 II.B.2.i.(v)      Records of the date and duration of any period where
                          the air pollution control equipment is not operating.

                 II.B.2.i.(vi)     Monthly records of the total hours the vapor recovery
                          unit is not operating, the total throughput volume, and total
                          throughput volume during the time the vapor recovery unit is
                          not operating.

                 II.B.2.i.(vii)    Records of inlet gas flow rate, as required by Section
                          II.B.2.f.(ii)(G).

                 II.B.2.i.(viii)   Records supporting the delay of any performance test
                          pursuant to Section II.B.2.h.(ii)(F).

                 II.B.2.i.(ix)     Records of performance tests must be maintained for
                          the life of the equipment that the enclosed combustion
                          device is used to control (even if ownership or control of the
                          device is transferred), including manufacturer model and


                                                                                          89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         serial number(s) of devices tested; the date of the test; a
                         copy of the test protocol followed; a certification by a
                         responsible official that the performance test was conducted
                         in accordance with a Division-approved test protocol; the
                         enclosed combustion device parameters required by the test
                         protocol; documentation of the methods and results of the
                         test, including whether the device passed or failed and the
                         tested control efficiency; and the date and description of any
                         actions taken in response to a failed test.

                 II.B.2.i.(x)    Records of flow meter or pressure actuation system
                         calibration and maintenance conducted pursuant to Section
                         II.B.2.g.(ii), including manufacturer specifications and
                         schedule if available.

                 II.B.2.i.(xi)   Beginning January 1, 2026, records of location
                         assessments conducted pursuant to Section II.B.2.h.(iv)(D).

           II.B.2.j. Reporting. The owner or operator must submit the following
                   information to the Division. Beginning April 14, 2025, the owner or
                   operator must submit the following information using a Division-
                   approved format.

                         II.B.2.j.(i)   By no later than thirty (30) days after the failing
                                 test result, the owner or operator must submit a
                                 notification of the failing test, including: AIRS ID, serial
                                 number or other unique identifier, and equipment or
                                 operation controlled; the date of test; the results of the
                                 test; monthly methane and VOC emission calculations
                                 using the test results for the calendar year of the test;
                                 monthly throughput for the calendar year of the test;
                                 the action to return the enclosed combustion device to
                                 proper operation (or whether operations were shut-in),




                                                                                          90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                including the timing thereof; and the proposed date of
                                the retest.

                       II.B.2.j.(ii)    On the same date as the annual emissions
                                inventory report in Part B, Section V., the owner or
                                operator must submit the date of each performance
                                test and the results of the test (i.e., pass/fail and
                                tested control efficiency).

                       II.B.2.j.(iii)   By July 31 of each year (beginning 2023 and
                                ending 2027 or upon completion of the initial
                                performance testing schedule set forth in Table 1),
                                owners or operators must submit an update to the
                                notification provided under Section II.B.2.h.(iii)
                                documenting changes to the list specified in Section
                                II.B.2.h.(iii)(A) (e.g., an enclosed combustion device
                                moved to a different facility (including transfer to
                                another operator) or controlling more or less
                                equipment or operations than specified) and changes
                                to the performance testing schedule provided
                                pursuant to Section II.B.2.h.(iii)(B).

                       II.B.2.j.(iv)    Beginning April 14, 2025, owners or operators
                                must submit a notification of the intent to perform a
                                performance test at least thirty (30) days prior to
                                conducting the performance test.

                       II.B.2.j.(v)     In the July 31, 2026, report required under
                                Section II.B.2.j.(iii), owners or operators must
                                document changes to the location of an enclosed
                                combustion device related to the updated definition of
                                disproportionately impacted community (i.e., whether
                                an enclosed combustion device is or is no longer
                                located within a disproportionately impacted


                                                                                        91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 community), as determined by December 31, 2025,
                                 pursuant to Section II.B.2.h.(iv)(D), and changes to
                                 the performance testing schedule provided pursuant
                                 to Section II.B.2.h.(iii)(B). Owners or operators will
                                 use this updated location list through the May 1, 2028,
                                 compliance deadline in Table 1, except that enclosed
                                 combustion devices located at a facility newly
                                 assessed as located in a disproportionately impacted
                                 community as of December 31, 2025, must be 100%
                                 tested by May 1, 2027.

           II.B.2.k. Reserved.

     II.B.3. Requirements for compressor seals and open-ended valves or lines

           II.B.3.a. Beginning January 1, 2015, each open-ended valve or line at well
                   production facilities and natural gas compressor stations must be
                   equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve that
                   seals the open end at all times except during operations requiring
                   process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line. Open-
                   ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which
                   are designed to open automatically in the event of a process
                   upset are exempt from the requirement to seal the open end of
                   the valve or line. Alternatively, an open-ended valve or line may be
                   treated as if it is a “component” as defined in Section II.A.7., and
                   may be monitored under the provisions of Section II.E.

           II.B.3.b. Beginning January 1, 2015, uncontrolled actual hydrocarbon
                   emissions from wet seal fluid degassing systems on wet seal
                   centrifugal compressors must be reduced by at least 95%, unless
                   the centrifugal compressor is subject to 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart
                   OOOO (July 31, 2025), 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July
                   31, 2025), 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025),
                   or Part B, Section II.J.


                                                                                          92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.B.3.c. Beginning January 1, 2015, the rod packing on any reciprocating
                     compressor located at a natural gas compressor station must be
                     replaced every 26,000 hours of operation or every thirty-six (36)
                     months, unless the reciprocating compressor is subject to the
                     reciprocating compressor emission control, monitoring,
                     recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of 40 CFR Part 60,
                     Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025), 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa
                     (July 31, 2025), 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December 3,
                     2025), or Part B, Section II.K. The measurement of accumulated
                     hours of operation (26,000) or months elapsed (36) begins on
                     January 1, 2015.

            II.B.3.d. Beginning February 14, 2022, the rod packing on any
                     reciprocating compressor located at a natural gas processing
                     plant must be replaced every 26,000 hours of operation or every
                     thirty-six (36) months, unless the reciprocating compressor is
                     subject to the reciprocating compressor emission control,
                     monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of Section
                     I.J.2., 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025), 40 CFR
                     Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025), 40 CFR Part 60,
                     Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025), or Part B, Section II.I.2.
                     The measurement of accumulated hours of operation (26,000) or
                     months elapsed (36) begins on February 14, 2022.

     II.B.4. Oil refineries are not subject to Section II.

     II.B.5. Glycol natural gas dehydrators that are subject to an emissions control
            requirement in a federal maximum achievable control technology
            (“MACT”) standard under 40 CFR Part 63 (July 1, 2025), a Best Available
            Control Technology (“BACT”) limit, or a New Source Performance
            Standard (“NSPS”) under 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2025) are not subject to
            Section II., except for the leak detection and repair requirements in
            Section II.E.



                                                                                         93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.B.6. Reserved.

        II.B.7. Reserved.

II.C.   Emission reduction from storage tanks at oil and gas exploration and production
        operations, Class II disposal well facilities, well production facilities, natural gas
        compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants.

        II.C.1. Control and monitoring requirements for storage tanks

               II.C.1.a. (State Only) Beginning May 1, 2008, owners or operators of all
                        storage tanks storing condensate with uncontrolled actual
                        emissions of VOCs equal to or greater than twenty (20) tons per
                        year based on a rolling twelve-month total must collect and control
                        emissions from each storage tank by routing emissions to and
                        operating air pollution control equipment that has a control
                        efficiency of at least 95% for VOCs.

               II.C.1.b. (State Only) Owners or operators of storage tanks with
                        uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs equal to or greater than six
                        (6) tons per year based on a rolling twelve-month total must
                        collect and control emissions from each storage tank by routing
                        emissions to and operating air pollution control equipment that
                        achieves a hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%. If a combustion
                        device is used, it must have a design destruction efficiency of at
                        least 98% for hydrocarbons, except where the combustion device
                        has been authorized by permit prior to May 1, 2014.

                      II.C.1.b.(i)   (State Only) Control requirements of Section II.C.1.b.
                              must be achieved in accordance with the following schedule:

                              II.C.1.b.(i)(A) A storage tank constructed on or after May 1,
                                     2014, must be in compliance within ninety (90) days
                                     of the date that the storage tank commences
                                     operation.




                                                                                             94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.C.1.b.(i)(B) A storage tank constructed before May 1,
                                  2014, must be in compliance by May 1, 2015.

                         II.C.1.b.(i)(C) A storage tank not otherwise subject to
                                  Sections II.C.1.b.(i)(A) or II.C.1.b.(i)(B) that increases
                                  uncontrolled actual emissions to six (6) tons per year
                                  VOC or more on a rolling twelve-month basis after
                                  May 1, 2014, must be in compliance within sixty (60)
                                  days of discovery of the emissions increase.

                 II.C.1.b.(ii).   Control requirements within ninety (90) days of
                         commencement of operation.

                         II.C.1.b.(ii)(A) Beginning May 1, 2014, through March 1,
                                  2020, owners or operators of storage tanks at well
                                  production facilities must collect and control
                                  emissions by routing emissions to operating air
                                  pollution control equipment during the first ninety (90)
                                  calendar days after commencement of operation. The
                                  air pollution control equipment must achieve a
                                  hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%. If a combustion
                                  device is used, it must have a design destruction
                                  efficiency of at least 98% for hydrocarbons. This
                                  control requirement does not apply to storage tanks
                                  that are projected to have emissions less than 1.5
                                  tons of VOC during the first ninety (90) days after
                                  commencement of operation.

                         II.C.1.b.(ii)(B) The air pollution control equipment and any
                                  associated monitoring equipment required pursuant to
                                  Section II.C.1.c.(i) may be removed at any time after
                                  the first ninety (90) calendar days as long as the
                                  source can demonstrate that uncontrolled actual




                                                                                          95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                emissions from the storage tank will be below the
                                threshold in Section II.C.1.b.

           II.C.1.c. (State Only) Owners or operators of storage tanks with
                   uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs equal to or greater than
                   two (2) tons per year based on a rolling twelve-month total must
                   collect and control emissions from each storage tank by routing
                   emissions to and operating air pollution control equipment that
                   achieves a hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%. If a combustion
                   device is used, it must have a design destruction efficiency of at
                   least 98% for hydrocarbons, except where the combustion device
                   has been authorized by permit prior to March 1, 2020.

                 II.C.1.c.(i)   Control requirements of Section II.C.1.c. must be
                         achieved in accordance with the following schedule

                         II.C.1.c.(i)(A) A storage tank constructed on or after March 1,
                                2020, must be in compliance by commencement of
                                operation of that storage tank.

                         II.C.1.c.(i)(B) A storage tank constructed before March 1,
                                2020, that is not already controlled under Sections
                                I.D. or II.C.1.b. must be in compliance by May 1,
                                2021.

                         II.C.1.c.(i)(C) A storage tank not otherwise subject to
                                Sections II.C.1.c.(i)(A) or II.C.1.c.(i)(B) that increases
                                uncontrolled actual emissions above the applicable
                                threshold in Section II.C.1.c.(i)(B) after the applicable
                                date in Section II.C.1.c.(i)(B) must be in compliance
                                within sixty (60) days of the first day of the month after
                                which the storage tank emissions exceeded the
                                applicable threshold based on a rolling twelve-month
                                basis.




                                                                                        96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.C.1.c.(ii)    If air pollution control equipment is not installed by the
                         applicable compliance date in Sections II.C.1.c.(i)(A),
                         II.C.1.c.(i)(B), or II.C.1.c.(i)(C), compliance with Section
                         II.C.1.c. may alternatively be demonstrated by shutting in all
                         wells producing into that storage tank by the date in Sections
                         II.C.1.c.(i)(A), II.C.1.c.(i)(B), or II.C.1.c.(i)(C) so long as
                         production does not resume from any such well until the air
                         pollution control equipment is installed and operational.

                 II.C.1.c.(iii)   Owners or operators of storage tanks for which the
                         use of air pollution control equipment would be technically
                         infeasible without supplemental fuel may apply to the
                         Division for an exemption from the control requirements of
                         Section II.C.1.c. Such request must include documentation
                         demonstrating the infeasibility of the air pollution control
                         equipment. The applicability of this exemption does not
                         relieve owners or operators of compliance with the storage
                         tank monitoring requirements of Section II.C.1.d.

           II.C.1.d. (State Only) Beginning May 1, 2014, or the applicable compliance
                   date in Sections II.C.1.b.(i) or II.C.1.c.(i), whichever comes later,
                   owners or operators of storage tanks subject to Section II.C.1.
                   must conduct audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) and additional visual
                   inspections of the storage tank and any associated equipment
                   (e.g., separator, air pollution control equipment, or other pressure
                   reducing equipment) at the same frequency as liquids are loaded
                   out from the storage tank. These inspections are not required
                   more frequently than every seven (7) days but must be conducted
                   at least every thirty-one (31) days. Monitoring is not required for
                   storage tanks or associated equipment that are unsafe, difficult, or
                   inaccessible to monitor, as defined in Section II.C.1.e. The
                   additional visual inspections must include, at a minimum:



                                                                                           97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.C.1.d.(i)      Visual inspection of any thief hatch, pressure relief
                         valve, or other access point to ensure that they are closed
                         and properly sealed.

                 II.C.1.d.(ii)     Repealed (February 14, 2022).

                 II.C.1.d.(iii)    Repealed (February 14, 2022).

                 II.C.1.d.(iv)     Repealed (February 14, 2022).

                 II.C.1.d.(v)      Repealed (February 14, 2022).

                 II.C.1.d.(vi)     Beginning May 1, 2020, or the applicable compliance
                         date in Section II.C.1.c.(i), whichever comes later, visual
                         observation of the dump valve(s) of the last separator(s)
                         before the storage tank(s) to ensure the dump valve is free
                         of debris and not stuck open. The owner or operator is not
                         required to observe the actuation of the dump valve during
                         this inspection; however, if a dump event occurs during the
                         inspection, the owner or operator must confirm proper
                         operation of the valve.

                 II.C.1.d.(vii) Beginning May 1, 2020, or the applicable compliance
                         date in Section II.C.1.c.(i), whichever comes later, a check
                         for the presence of liquids in liquid knockout vessels that do
                         not drain automatically, underground lines, and aboveground
                         piping.

                         II.C.1.d.(vii)(A)       For liquid knockout vessels for which a
                                   procedure exists to check liquid level, check for the
                                   presence of liquids. If liquids are present above the
                                   low level indication point, drain liquids.

                         II.C.1.d.(vii)(B)       For liquid knockout vessels for which no
                                   procedure exists to check liquid level, drain liquids.

                         II.C.1.d.(vii)(C)       For underground lines and aboveground
                                   piping that is not sloped to a liquid knockout or tank


                                                                                            98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                   and for which a procedure exists to check for the
                                   presence of liquids accumulation, check for the
                                   presence of liquids and drain liquids as needed.

                          II.C.1.d.(vii)(D)      For underground lines and aboveground
                                   piping that is not sloped to a liquid knockout vessel or
                                   tank and for which no written procedure exists to
                                   check for the presence of liquids accumulation, drain
                                   liquids quarterly.

           II.C.1.e. (State Only) If storage tanks or associated equipment is unsafe,
                    difficult, or inaccessible to monitor, the owner or operator is not
                    required to monitor such equipment until it becomes feasible to do
                    so.

                  II.C.1.e.(i)     Difficult to monitor means it cannot be monitored
                          without elevating the monitoring personnel more than two
                          meters above a supported surface or is unable to be
                          reached via a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic type scaffold
                          that allows access up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the
                          ground.

                  II.C.1.e.(ii)    Unsafe to monitor means it cannot be monitored
                          without exposing monitoring personnel to an immediate
                          danger as a consequence of completing the monitoring.

                  II.C.1.e.(iii)   Inaccessible to monitor means buried, insulated, or
                          obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access by
                          monitoring personnel.

     II.C.2. (State Only) Capture and monitoring requirements for storage tanks that
           are fitted with air pollution control equipment as required by Sections I.D.
           or II.C.1.

           II.C.2.a. Owners or operators of storage tanks must route all hydrocarbon
                    emissions to air pollution control equipment, and must operate



                                                                                          99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  without venting hydrocarbon emissions from the thief hatch (or
                  other access point to the tank) or pressure relief device during
                  normal operation. This requirement does not apply where venting
                  is reasonably required for maintenance, unless the control of
                  maintenance emissions is required pursuant to Section II.H.2.;
                  gauging, unless the use of a storage tank measurement system is
                  required pursuant to and the operator compiles with Section
                  II.C.4.; or safety of personnel and equipment. Compliance must
                  be achieved in accordance with the schedule in Section
                  II.C.2.b.(ii).

                 II.C.2.a.(i)      Venting is emissions from a controlled storage tank
                         thief hatch, pressure relief device, or other access point to
                         the storage tank, which:

                         II.C.2.a.(i)(A) Are primarily the result of over-pressurization,
                                   whether related to design, operation, or maintenance;
                                   or

                         II.C.2.a.(i)(B) Are the result of an open, unlatched, or visibly
                                   unseated pressure relief device (e.g., thief hatch or
                                   pressure relief valve), an open vent line, or an
                                   unintended opening in the storage tank (e.g., crack or
                                   hole).

                 II.C.2.a.(ii)     When emissions from a controlled storage tank are
                         observed, the Division may require the owner or operator to
                         submit sufficient information demonstrating whether or not
                         the emissions were primarily the result of over-
                         pressurization. Absent a demonstration that such emissions
                         were not primarily the result of over-pressurization, such
                         emissions will be considered venting for purposes of Section
                         II.C.2.a.




                                                                                       100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.C.2.a.(iii)   When venting is observed, the owner or operator
                         must confirm within twenty-four (24) hours of taking action to
                         return the storage tank to operation without venting that the
                         action(s) taken was effective. If the venting was observed
                         using an approved instrument monitoring method, the
                         confirmation must be made using an approved instrument
                         monitoring method.

           II.C.2.b. Owners or operators of storage tanks subject to the control
                   requirements of Sections I.D., II.C.1.a, II.C.1.b., or II.C.1.c. must
                   develop, certify, and implement a documented Storage Tank
                   Emission Management System (STEM) plan to identify, evaluate,
                   and employ appropriate control technologies, monitoring
                   practices, operational practices, and/or other strategies designed
                   to meet the requirements set forth in Section II.C.2.a. Owners or
                   operators must update the STEM plan as necessary to achieve or
                   maintain compliance. Owners or operators are not required to
                   develop and implement STEM for storage tanks containing only
                   stabilized liquids. The minimum elements of STEM are listed.

                 II.C.2.b.(i)     STEM plans must include selected control
                         technologies, monitoring practices, operational practices,
                         and/or other strategies; an analysis of the engineering
                         design of the storage tank and air pollution control
                         equipment; procedures for evaluating ongoing storage tank
                         emission capture performance; and monitoring in
                         accordance with approved instrument monitoring methods
                         following the applicable schedule in Section II.C.2.b.(ii).

                 II.C.2.b.(ii)    Owners or operators must achieve the requirements
                         of Sections II.C.2.a. and II.C.2.b. and begin implementing
                         the required approved instrument monitoring method in
                         accordance with the following schedule



                                                                                       101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(A) A storage tank subject to Sections II.C.1.a. or
                               II.C.1.b. and constructed on or after May 1, 2014,
                               must comply with the requirements of Section II.C.2.a.
                               by the date the storage tank commences operation.
                               The storage tank must comply with Section II.C.2.b.
                               and implement the approved instrument monitoring
                               method inspections within ninety (90) days of the date
                               that the storage tank commences operation.

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(B) A storage tank subject to Sections II.C.1.a. or
                               II.C.1.b. and constructed before May 1, 2014, must
                               comply with the requirements of Sections II.C.2.a. and
                               II.C.2.b. by May 1, 2015.

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(C)      A storage tank subject to Section
                               II.C.1.c. and constructed on or after March 1, 2020,
                               must comply with the requirements of Section II.C.2.a.
                               by commencement of operation of the storage tank.
                               The storage tank must comply with Section II.C.2.b.
                               and implement the approved instrument monitoring
                               method inspections within ninety (90) days of
                               commencement of operation of the storage tank.

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(D)      A storage tank subject to Sections
                               II.C.1.c. and I.D.3. and constructed before March 1,
                               2020, that is not subject to the control requirements of
                               the system-wide control strategy in Section I.D.1.
                               must comply with the requirements of Sections
                               II.C.2.a. and II.C.2.b. by May 1, 2020, or by
                               commencement of operation of the storage tank,
                               whichever comes later.

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(E) A storage tank subject to Section II.C.1.c. and
                               constructed before March 1, 2020, that is not subject


                                                                                     102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             to the control requirements of the system-wide control
                             strategy in Section I.D.1. must comply with the
                             requirements of Sections II.C.2.a. and II.C.2.b. by
                             May 1, 2021. Approved instrument monitoring method
                             inspections of the storage tank must begin in 2021.




                                                                                   103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(F) A storage tank with uncontrolled actual
                               emissions of VOCs equal to or greater than six (6)
                               and less than or equal to twelve (12) tons per year
                               must begin semi-annual approved instrument
                               monitoring method inspections in 2020.

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(G)       A storage tank not otherwise subject to
                               Sections II.C.2.b.(ii)(A) or II.C.2.b.(ii)(B) that increases
                               uncontrolled actual emissions to six (6) tons per year
                               VOC or more on a rolling twelve month basis after
                               May 1, 2014, must comply with the requirements of
                               Sections II.C.2.a. and II.C.2.b. and implement the
                               required approved instrument monitoring method
                               inspections within sixty (60) days of the first day of the
                               month after which the storage tank emissions
                               exceeded the applicable threshold based on a rolling
                               twelve-month basis..

                       II.C.2.b.(ii)(H)       A storage tank not otherwise subject to
                               Sections II.C.2.b.(ii)(A) through II.C.2.b.(ii)(F) that
                               increases uncontrolled actual emissions above the
                               applicable threshold in Section II.C.1.c.(i)(B) after the
                               applicable date in Section II.C.1.c.(i)(B), must comply
                               with the requirements of Sections II.C.2.a. and
                               II.C.2.b. and implement the required approved
                               instrument monitoring method inspections within sixty
                               (60) days of the first day of the month after which the
                               storage tank VOC emissions exceeded the applicable
                               threshold based on a rolling twelve-month basis.




                                                                                         104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            II.C.2.b.(ii)(I) Following the first approved instrument
                                      monitoring method inspection, owners or operators
                                      must continue conducting approved instrument
                                      monitoring method inspections in accordance with the
                                      inspection frequency in Table 2.



                                     Table 2 – Storage Tank Inspections

                  Threshold: Storage Tank
                                                       Approved Instrument Monitoring
                Uncontrolled Actual VOC
                                                        Method Inspection Frequency
                       Emissions (tpy)

           > 2 and < 12                              Semi-annually

           > 12 and < 50                             Quarterly

           > 50                                      Monthly

                    II.C.2.b.(iii)    Owners or operators are not required to monitor
                            storage tanks and associated equipment that are unsafe,
                            difficult, or inaccessible to monitor, as defined in Section
                            II.C.1.e.

                    II.C.2.b.(iv)     STEM must include a certification by the owner or
                            operator that the selected STEM strategy(ies) are designed
                            to minimize emissions from storage tanks and associated
                            equipment at the facility(ies), including thief hatches and
                            pressure relief devices.

     II.C.3. (State Only) Recordkeeping: The owner or operator of each storage tank
           subject to Sections I.D. or II.C. must maintain records of STEM, if
           applicable, including the plan, any updates, and the certification, and
           make them available to the Division upon request. In addition, for a period
           of two (2) years, the owner or operator must maintain records of any




                                                                                           105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           required monitoring and make them available to the Division upon request,
           including

           II.C.3.a. The AIRS ID for the storage tank.




                                                                                106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.C.3.b. The date and duration of any period where the thief hatch,
                   pressure relief device, or other access point are found to be
                   venting hydrocarbon emissions, except for venting that is
                   reasonably required for maintenance (though recordkeeping is
                   required if actions are required to reduce maintenance emissions
                   pursuant to Section II.H.2.), gauging (unless use of a storage tank
                   measurement system is required pursuant to and the operator
                   complies with Section II.C.4.), or safety of personnel and
                   equipment.

           II.C.3.c. The date and duration of any period where the air pollution control
                   equipment is not operating.

           II.C.3.d. Records of the inspections required in Sections II.C.1.d. and
                   II.C.2.b.(ii), including the time and date of each inspection and a
                   description of any problems observed, description and date of any
                   corrective action(s) taken, and name of employee or third party
                   performing corrective action(s).

           II.C.3.e. Repealed (February 14, 2022).

           II.C.3.f. The timing of and efforts made to eliminate venting, restore
                   operation of air pollution control equipment, and mitigate visible
                   emissions, including the dates and results of action(s) taken and
                   the monitoring used to confirm the action(s) were successful.

           II.C.3.g. A list of equipment associated with the storage tank that is
                   designated as unsafe, difficult, or inaccessible to monitor, as
                   described in Section II.C.1.e., an explanation stating why the
                   equipment is so designated, and the plan for monitoring such
                   equipment.

           II.C.3.h. Records of any exemption, and associated documentation,
                   applied for under Section II.C.1.c.(iii).




                                                                                     107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.C.4. (State Only) Storage tank measurement system requirements at well
           production facilities, natural gas compressor stations, and natural gas
           processing plants

           II.C.4.a. Applicability




                                                                                     108
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.C.4.a.(i)    The owners or operators of controlled storage tanks
                          at well production facilities, natural gas compressor stations,
                          or natural gas processing plants constructed on or after May
                          1, 2020, and at any facilities that are modified on or after
                          May 1, 2020, such that an additional controlled storage
                          vessel is constructed to receive an anticipated increase in
                          throughput of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water, must
                          use a storage tank measurement system to determine the
                          quantity of liquids in the storage tank(s).

                  II.C.4.a.(ii)   The owners or operators of controlled storage tanks
                          at well production facilities, natural gas compressor stations,
                          or natural gas processing plants constructed on or after
                          January 1, 2021, and at any facilities that are modified on or
                          after January 1, 2021, such that an additional controlled
                          storage vessel is constructed to receive an anticipated
                          increase in throughput of hydrocarbon liquids or produced
                          water, must use a storage tank measurement system to
                          determine the quality and quantity of liquids in the storage
                          tank(s).

           II.C.4.b. Owner or operators subject to the storage tank measurement
                   system requirements in Section II.C.4.a., must keep thief hatches
                   (or other access points to the tank) and pressure relief devices on
                   storage tanks closed and latched during activities to determine the
                   quality and/or quantity of liquids in the storage tank(s).

           II.C.4.c. Operators may inspect, test, and/or calibrate the storage tank
                   measurement system semi-annually, or as directed by the Bureau
                   of Land Management (see 43 CFR Section 3174.6(b)(5)(ii)(B)
                   (November 17, 2016)) or system manufacturer. Opening the thief
                   hatch if required to inspect, test, or calibrate the system is not a
                   violation of Section II.C.4.b.



                                                                                         109
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.C.4.d. The owner or operator must install signage at or near the storage
                   tank that indicates which equipment and method(s) is used and
                   the appropriate and necessary operating procedures for that
                   system.

           II.C.4.e. The owner or operator must develop and implement an annual
                   training program for employees and/or third parties conducting
                   activities subject to Section II.C.4. that includes, at a minimum,
                   operating procedures for each type of system.

           II.C.4.f. Owner or operators must retain records for at least two (2) years
                   and make such records available to the Division upon request,
                   including

                  II.C.4.f.(i)     Date of construction of the storage vessel or facility.

                  II.C.4.f.(ii)    Description of the storage tank measurement system
                           used to comply with Section II.C.4.a.

                  II.C.4.f.(iii)   Date(s) of storage tank measurement system
                           inspections, testing, and/or calibrations pursuant to Section
                           II.C.4.c.

                  II.C.4.f.(iv)    Manufacturer specifications regarding storage tank
                           measurement system inspections, and/or calibrations, if
                           followed pursuant to Section II.C.4.c.

                  II.C.4.f.(v)     Records of the annual training program, including the
                           date and names of persons trained.

     II.C.5. (State Only) Storage tank hydrocarbon liquids loadout requirements at
           Class II disposal well facilities, well production facilities, natural gas
           compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants

           II.C.5.a. Owners or operators of well production facilities, natural gas
                   compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants with a
                   hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles throughput of
                   greater than or equal to 5,000 barrels per year on a rolling 12-


                                                                                        110
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  month basis must control emissions from the loadout of
                  hydrocarbon liquids from controlled storage tanks to transport
                  vehicles by using (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection and
                  return system and/or air pollution control equipment.

                 Owners or operators of class II disposal well facilities with VOC
                 emissions from hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles
                 greater than or equal to two (2) tons uncontrolled actual emissions
                 per year on a rolling 12-month basis must control emissions from
                 the loadout of hydrocarbon liquids from storage tanks to transport
                 vehicles by using (a) submerged fill and (b) a vapor collection and
                 return system and/or air pollution control equipment.

                 II.C.5.a.(i)   Compliance with Section II.C.5. must be achieved in
                         accordance with the following schedule

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(A) Facilities constructed or modified on or after
                                May 1, 2020, must be in compliance by
                                commencement of operation.

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(B) Facilities constructed before May 1, 2020, must
                                be in compliance by May 1, 2021.

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(C) Class II disposal well facilities constructed or
                                modified on or after January 1, 2021, must be in
                                compliance by commencement of operation.

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(D) Class II disposal well facilities constructed
                                before January 1, 2021, must be in compliance by
                                May 1, 2021.

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(E) Facilities not subject to Sections II.C.5.a.(i)(A)
                                or II.C.5.a.(i)(B) that exceed the hydrocarbon liquids
                                loadout to transport vehicles throughput of greater
                                than or equal to 5,000 barrels per year on a rolling 12-




                                                                                          111
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  month basis must control emissions from loadout
                                  upon exceeding the loadout threshold.

                         II.C.5.a.(i)(F) Facilities not subject to Sections II.C.5.a.(i)(C)
                                  or II.C.5.a.(i)(D) that exceed the hydrocarbon liquids
                                  loadout to transport vehicles emissions threshold of
                                  greater than or equal to two (2) tons uncontrolled
                                  actual VOC emissions per year on a rolling 12-month
                                  basis must control emissions from loadout within sixty
                                  (60) days of the first day of the month after which
                                  loadout emissions exceeded the loadout threshold.

                 II.C.5.a.(ii)    Storage tanks must operate without venting at all
                         times during loadout.

                 II.C.5.a.(iii)   The owner or operator must, as applicable:

                         II.C.5.a.(iii)(A)      Install and operate the vapor collection
                                  and return equipment to collect vapors during the
                                  loadout of hydrocarbon liquids to tank compartments
                                  of outbound transport vehicles and to route the vapors
                                  to the storage tank or air pollution control equipment.

                         II.C.5.a.(iii)(B)      Include devices to prevent the release of
                                  vapor from vapor recovery hoses not in use.

                         II.C.5.a.(iii)(C)      Use operating procedures to ensure that
                                  hydrocarbon liquids cannot be transferred to transport
                                  vehicles unless the vapor collection and return system
                                  is in use.

                         II.C.5.a.(iii)(D)      Operate all recovery and disposal
                                  equipment at a back-pressure less than the pressure
                                  relief valve setting of transport vehicles.

                         II.C.5.a.(iii)(E)      The owner or operator must inspect
                                  onsite loading equipment to ensure that hoses,


                                                                                        112
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 couplings, and valves are maintained to prevent
                                 dripping, leaking, or other liquid or vapor loss during
                                 loadout. These inspections must occur at least
                                 monthly, unless loadout occurs less frequently, then
                                 as often as loadout is occurring,

                 II.C.5.a.(iv)   Loadout observations and operator training

                        II.C.5.a.(iv)(A)        The owner or operator must observe
                                 loadout to confirm that all storage tanks operate
                                 without venting when loadout operations are active.
                                 These inspections must occur at least monthly, unless
                                 loadout occurs less frequently, then as often as
                                 loadout is occurring,

                        II.C.5.a.(iv)(B)        If observation of loadout is not feasible,
                                 the owner or operator must document the annual
                                 loadout frequency and the reason why observation is
                                 not feasible and inspect the facility within 24 hours
                                 after loadout to confirm that all storage tank thief
                                 hatches (or other access point to the tank) are closed
                                 and latched.

                        II.C.5.a.(iv)(C)        The owner or operator must install
                                 signage at or near the loadout control system that
                                 indicates which loadout control method(s) is used and
                                 the appropriate and necessary operating procedures
                                 for that system.

                        II.C.5.a.(iv)(D)        The owner or operator must develop
                                 and implement an annual training program for
                                 employees and/or third parties conducting loadout
                                 activities subject to Section II.C.5. that includes, at a
                                 minimum, operating procedures for each type of
                                 loadout control system.


                                                                                         113
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     II.C.5.a.(v)    Owners or operators must retain records for at least
                            two (2) years and make such records available to the
                            Division upon request.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(A)        Records of the annual facility
                                     hydrocarbon liquids loadout to transport vehicles
                                     throughput.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(B)        Inspections, including a description of
                                     any problems found and their resolution, required
                                     under Sections II.C.5.a.(iii) and II.C.5.a.(iv) must be
                                     documented in a log.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(C)        Records of the infeasibility of
                                     observation of loadout.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(D)        Records of the frequency of loadout.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(E)        Records of the annual training program,
                                     including the date and names of persons trained.

                            II.C.5.a.(v)(F) Records of class II disposal well facility VOC
                                     emissions from hydrocarbon liquids loadout to
                                     transport vehicles on a rolling 12-month basis.

                     II.C.5.a.(vi)   Air pollution control equipment used to comply with
                            this Section II.C.5. must comply with Section II.B., be
                            inspected in accordance with Sections II.B.2.f.(ii)(A) through
                            II.B.2.f.(ii)(D), and achieve a hydrocarbon control efficiency
                            of 95%.

II.D.   (State Only) Emission reductions from glycol natural gas dehydrators

        II.D.1. Beginning May 1, 2008, still vents and vents from any flash separator or
              flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator located at an oil and gas
              exploration and production operation, natural gas compressor station, or
              gas-processing plant subject to control requirements pursuant to Section
              II.D.2., shall reduce uncontrolled actual emissions of volatile organic


                                                                                           114
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           compounds by at least 90 percent through the use of a condenser or air
           pollution control equipment.

     II.D.2. The control requirement in Section II.D.1. apply where:

           II.D.2.a. Actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile organic compounds from
                    the glycol natural gas dehydrator are equal to or greater than two
                    tons per year; and




                                                                                   115
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.2.b. The sum of actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile organic
                    compounds from any single glycol natural gas dehydrator or
                    grouping of glycol natural gas dehydrators at a single stationary
                    source is equal to or greater than 15 tons per year. To determine if
                    a grouping of dehydrators meets or exceeds the 15 tons per year
                    threshold, sum the total actual uncontrolled emissions of volatile
                    organic compounds from all individual dehydrators at the
                    stationary source, including those with emissions less than two
                    tons per year.

     II.D.3. Beginning May 1, 2015, still vents and vents from any flash separator or
           flash tank on a glycol natural gas dehydrator located at an oil and gas
           exploration and production operation, natural gas compressor station, or
           gas-processing plant subject to control requirements pursuant to Section
           II.D.4., shall reduce uncontrolled actual emissions of hydrocarbons by at
           least 95 percent on a rolling twelve-month basis through the use of a
           condenser or air pollution control equipment. If a combustion device is
           used, it shall have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98% for
           hydrocarbons, except where:

           II.D.3.a. The combustion device has been authorized by permit prior to
                    May 1, 2014; and

           II.D.3.b. A building unit or designated outside activity area is not located
                    within 1,320 feet of the facility at which the natural gas glycol
                    dehydrator is located.

     II.D.4. The control requirement in Section II.D.3. apply where:

           II.D.4.a. Uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs from a glycol natural gas
                    dehydrator constructed on or after May 1, 2015, are equal to or
                    greater than two (2) tons per year. Such glycol natural gas
                    dehydrators must be in compliance with Section II.D.3. by the date
                    that the glycol natural gas dehydrator commences operation.




                                                                                        116
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.D.4.b. Uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs from a single glycol
                       natural gas dehydrator constructed before May 1, 2015, are equal
                       to or greater than six (6) tons per year, or two (2) tons per year if
                       the glycol natural gas dehydrator is located within 1,320 feet of a
                       building unit or designated outside activity area.

               II.D.4.c. For purposes of Sections II.D.3. and II.D.4.:

                      II.D.4.c.(i)    Building Unit means a residential building unit, and
                              every five thousand (5,000) square feet of building floor area
                              in commercial facilities or every fifteen thousand (15,000)
                              square feet of building floor area in warehouses that are
                              operating and normally occupied during working hours.

                      II.D.4.c.(ii)   A Designated Outside Activity Area means an outdoor
                              venue or recreation area, such as a playground, permanent
                              sports field, amphitheater, or other similar place of public
                              assembly owned or operated by a local government, which
                              the local government had established as a designated
                              outside activity area by the COGCC; or an outdoor venue or
                              recreation area where ingress to or egress from could be
                              impeded in the event of an emergency condition at an oil
                              and gas location less than three hundred and fifty (350) feet
                              from the venue due to the configuration of the venue and the
                              number of persons known or expected to simultaneously
                              occupy the venue on a regular basis.

II.E.   (State Only) Leak detection and repair program for well production facilities and
        natural gas compressor stations

        II.E.1. The following provisions of Section II.E. apply in lieu of any directed
               inspection and maintenance program requirements established pursuant
               to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2.




                                                                                             117
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.E.2. Owners or operators of well production facilities or natural gas compressor
           stations that monitor components as part of Section II.E. may estimate
           uncontrolled actual emissions from components for the purpose of
           evaluating the applicability of component fugitive emissions to Regulation
           Number 3 by utilizing the emission factors defined as less than 10,000
           ppmv of Table 2-8 of the 1995 EPA Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission
           Estimates (Document EPA-453/R-95-017).

     II.E.3. Beginning January 1, 2015, owners or operators of natural gas
           compressor stations must inspect components for leaks using an
           approved instrument monitoring method, in accordance with the following
           schedule

           II.E.3.a. Approved instrument monitoring method inspections must begin
                    within ninety (90) days after January 1, 2015, or the date the
                    natural gas compressor station commences operation if such date
                    is after January 1, 2015, for natural gas compressor stations with
                    fugitive VOC emissions greater than zero (0) but less than or
                    equal to fifty (50) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month
                    total.

                  II.E.3.a.(i)      Annual approved instrument monitoring method
                             inspections at natural gas compressor stations with fugitive
                             VOC emissions greater than zero (0) but less than or equal
                             to twelve (12) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month
                             total, must begin within ninety (90) days after January 1,
                             2015, or the date the natural gas compressor station
                             commences operation if such date is after January 1, 2015.
                             Annual inspections must be conducted through calendar
                             year 2019.

                  II.E.3.a.(ii)     Beginning calendar year 2020, owners or operators of
                             natural gas compressor stations with fugitive VOC emissions
                             greater than zero (0) but less than or equal to twelve (12)


                                                                                           118
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total, must
                         conduct semi-annual approved instrument monitoring
                         method inspections.

                 II.E.3.a.(iii)   Beginning January 1, 2023, owners or operators of
                         natural gas compressor stations with fugitive VOC emissions
                         greater than zero (0) but less than or equal to twelve (12)
                         tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total, must
                         conduct quarterly approved instrument monitoring method
                         inspections.

           II.E.3.b. Approved instrument monitoring method inspections must begin
                   within thirty (30) days after January 1, 2015, or the date the
                   natural gas compressor station commences operation if such date
                   is after January 1, 2015, for natural gas compressor stations with
                   fugitive VOC emissions greater than fifty (50) tons per year.

           II.E.3.c. Following the first approved instrument monitoring method
                   inspection, owners or operators must continue conducting
                   approved instrument monitoring method inspections in
                   accordance with the Inspection Frequency in Table 3.

           II.E.3.d. Beginning January 1, 2023, owners or operators of natural gas
                   compressor stations located within a disproportionately impacted
                   community or within 1,000 feet of an occupied area must inspect
                   components for leaks using an approved instrument monitoring
                   method in accordance with the inspection frequency in Table 3.

                 II.E.3.d.(i)     Beginning April 14, 2025, disproportionately impacted
                         community is defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or
                         operator must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the
                         natural gas compressor station is located within a
                         disproportionately impacted community to determine the
                         inspection and repair frequency for the calendar year
                         beginning in 2026.


                                                                                       119
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




                                         120
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.E.3.e. For purposes of Section II.E.3., fugitive emissions must be
                    calculated using the emission factors of Table 2-4 of the 1995 EPA
                    Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates (Document EPA-
                    453/R-95-017), or other Division approved method.

                Table 3 – Natural Gas Compressor Station Component Inspections

            Fugitive VOC Emissions (rolling twelve-          Inspection Frequency
            month tpy)

            > 0 and < 12                                     Quarterly

            > 0 and < 50, located within a                   Bimonthly
            disproportionately impacted community or
            within 1,000 feet of an occupied area

            > 12 and < 50                                    Quarterly

            > 50                                             Monthly

     II.E.4. Requirements for well production facilities

            II.E.4.a. Owners or operators of well production facilities constructed on or
                    after October 15, 2014, must identify leaks from components
                    using an approved instrument monitoring method no sooner than
                    fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty (30) days after the facility
                    commences operation. This initial test constitutes the first, or only
                    for facilities subject to a one time approved instrument monitoring
                    method inspection, of the periodic approved instrument monitoring
                    method inspections. Thereafter, approved instrument monitoring
                    method and AVO inspections must be conducted in accordance
                    with the Inspection Frequencies in Table 4.

            II.E.4.b. Owners or operators of well production facilities constructed
                    before October 15, 2014, must identify leaks from components
                    using an approved instrument monitoring method within ninety
                    (90) days of the Phase-In Schedule in Table 4; within thirty (30)



                                                                                        121
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  days for well production facilities subject to monthly approved
                  instrument monitoring method inspections; or by January 1, 2016,
                  for well production facilities subject to a one time approved
                  instrument monitoring method inspection. Thereafter, approved
                  instrument monitoring method and AVO inspections must be
                  conducted in accordance with the inspection frequencies in Table
                  4.




                                                                                    122
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.4.c. Beginning calendar year 2020, owners or operators of well
                   production facilities with estimated uncontrolled actual VOC
                   emissions greater than or equal to two (2) but less than or equal
                   to twelve (12) tons per year as calculated in accordance with
                   Section II.E.4.e., based on a rolling twelve-month total, must
                   inspect components for leaks using an approved instrument
                   monitoring method at least semi-annually.

           II.E.4.d. Beginning calendar year 2020, owners or operators of well
                   production facilities with estimated uncontrolled actual VOC
                   emissions greater than or equal to two (2) tons per year as
                   calculated in accordance with Section II.E.4.g., based on a rolling
                   twelve-month total, and located within 1,000 feet of an occupied
                   area must inspect components for leaks using an approved
                   instrument monitoring method in accordance with the inspection
                   frequency in Table 4.

           II.E.4.e. Owners or operators of well production facilities must inspect
                   components for leaks using an approved instrument monitoring
                   method as follows, except as provided in Section II.E.4.f.

                  II.E.4.e.(i)   Beginning January 1, 2023, for well production
                          facilities that commenced operation before May 1, 2022, in
                          accordance with the inspection frequencies in Table 5.

                          II.E.4.e.(i)(A) Beginning April 14, 2025, for well production
                                 facilities that commenced operation before May 1,
                                 2022, disproportionately impacted community is
                                 defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or operator
                                 must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the well
                                 production facility is located within a
                                 disproportionately impacted community to determine
                                 the inspection and repair frequency for the calendar
                                 year beginning in 2026


                                                                                      123
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.E.4.e.(ii)   Well production facilities that commence operation on
                         or after May 1, 2022, must be inspected at least monthly.

                         II.E.4.e.(ii)(A) Beginning April 14, 2025, for well production
                                 facilities that commenced operation after May 1,
                                 2022, disproportionately impacted community is
                                 defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or operator
                                 must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the well
                                 production facility is located within a
                                 disproportionately impacted community to determine
                                 the inspection and repair frequency for the calendar
                                 year beginning in 2026.

           II.E.4.f. Alternative inspection frequency requirements.

                 Owners or operators of well production facilities in compliance with
                 Sections II.E.4.f.(i) or II.E.4.f.(ii) must inspect components for leaks
                 using an approved instrument monitoring method at least semi-
                 annually or consistent with the inspection frequency in Table 4,
                 whichever is more frequent, except that a well production facility
                 with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions less than two (2) tons per
                 year as of February 14, 2022, need only be inspected at least
                 annually. Owners or operators must comply with all other
                 requirements of Section II.E.

                 II.E.4.f.(i)    The owner or operator installs and operates an
                         automatic pressure management and pilot light system,
                         consistent with a Division-approved protocol, on each
                         storage tank at a well production facility with storage tanks
                         subject to the requirements of Section II.C. The Division-
                         approved protocol must ensure that the automatic pressure
                         management and pilot light system, as appropriate.




                                                                                      124
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(A) Continuously tracks the pressure in the storage
                                 tank(s) and monitors the pilot light on combustion
                                 devices used as air pollution control equipment;

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(B) Accurately identifies when storage tank
                                 pressure levels both drop and rise substantially to
                                 indicate venting (e.g., both when a thief hatch is open
                                 and when pressure rises above the level where
                                 venting might occur);

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(C) Accurately identifies when a pilot light is out
                                 and subsequently re-lit;

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(D) Will shut-in flow to the storage tank(s) under
                                 the circumstances in Sections II.E.4.f.(i)(B) and
                                 II.E.4.f.(i)(C);

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(E) Triggers a site investigation by the owner or
                                 operator upon the occurrence of potential venting and
                                 pilot light outages; and

                          II.E.4.f.(i)(F) Includes sufficient recordkeeping and reporting
                                 requirements to demonstrate compliance.

                 II.E.4.f.(ii)   The owner or operator uses only non-emitting
                          pneumatic controllers, installs and operates a software
                          system providing automated operational feedback to a
                          central control system, and does not install and operate
                          hydrocarbon liquid storage tanks (other than a maintenance
                          tank) or natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion
                          engines.

           II.E.4.g. The estimated uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the
                  highest emitting storage tank at the well production facility
                  determines the frequency at which inspections must be
                  performed. If no storage tanks storing oil or condensate are



                                                                                            125
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

                          located at the well production facility, owners or operators must
                          rely on the facility emissions (controlled actual VOC emissions
                          from all permanent equipment, including emissions from
                          components determined by utilizing the emission factors defined
                          as less than 10,000 ppmv of Table 2-8 of the 1995 EPA Protocol
                          for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates).



                     Table 4 – Well Production Facility Component Inspections

              Thresholds (per II.E.4.g.)

Well production facilities       Well production           Approved         AVO         Phase-In
 without storage tanks        facilities with storage      Instrument    Inspection     Schedule
  (rolling twelve-month       tanks (rolling twelve-       Monitoring    Frequency
           tpy)                      month tpy)             Method
                                                           Inspection
                                                           Frequency

> 0 and < 2                   > 0 and < 2               One time         Monthly      January 1,
                                                                                      2016

> 2 and < 12                  > 2 and < 12              Semi-annually    Monthly      * begins in
                                                                                      2020

> 2 and < 12, located         > 2 and < 12,             Quarterly        Monthly      * begins in
within 1,000 feet of an       located within 1,000                                    2020
occupied area                 feet of an occupied
                              area



> 12 and < 20                 > 12 and < 50             Quarterly        Monthly      January 1,
                                                                                      2015




                                                                                            126
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

                     Table 4 – Well Production Facility Component Inspections

              Thresholds (per II.E.4.g.)

Well production facilities       Well production            Approved         AVO          Phase-In
 without storage tanks        facilities with storage       Instrument     Inspection    Schedule
  (rolling twelve-month       tanks (rolling twelve-        Monitoring   Frequency
            tpy)                     month tpy)              Method
                                                            Inspection
                                                            Frequency

> 12, located within          > 12, located within       Monthly                        * begins in
1,000 feet of an              1,000 feet of an                                          2020
occupied area                 occupied area

> 20                          > 50                       Monthly                        January 1,
                                                                                        2015



       Table 5 - Well Production Facility Component Inspections on or after January 1, 2023

        Thresholds (per II.E.4.g.)

                                                  Approved Instrument
                                                                                AVO Inspection
   Well production facilities (rolling      Monitoring Method Inspection
                                                                                   Frequency
           twelve-month tpy)                            Frequency

> 0 and < 2                                               Annual                    Monthly

> 0 and < 2, located within 1,000 feet
                                                        Semi-annual                 Monthly
of an occupied area

> 0 and < 2, located in the 8-hour
ozone control area and within a
                                                        Semi-annual                 Monthly
disproportionately impacted
community

> 2 and < 50                                             Quarterly                  Monthly



                                                                                            127
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

     Table 5 - Well Production Facility Component Inspections on or after January 1, 2023

      Thresholds (per II.E.4.g.)

                                               Approved Instrument
                                                                                AVO Inspection
   Well production facilities (rolling     Monitoring Method Inspection
                                                                                  Frequency
          twelve-month tpy)                         Frequency

> 2 and < 12, located within 1,000
feet of an occupied area or within a
disproportionately impacted                         Bimonthly                       Monthly
community



> 12, located within 1,000 feet of an
occupied area or within a
                                                      Monthly
disproportionately impacted
community

> 20, well production facilities without
                                                      Monthly
storage tanks

> 50, well production facilities with
                                                      Monthly
storage tanks

         II.E.5. If a component is unsafe, difficult, or inaccessible to monitor, the owner or
                 operator is not required to monitor the component until it becomes feasible
                 to do so.

                 II.E.5.a. Difficult to monitor components are those that cannot be
                          monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than
                          two (2) meters above a supported surface or are unable to be
                          reached via a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic type scaffold that
                          allows access to components up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the
                          ground.




                                                                                           128
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.E.5.b. Unsafe to monitor components are those that cannot be
                    monitored without exposing monitoring personnel to an immediate
                    danger as a consequence of completing the monitoring.

            II.E.5.c. Inaccessible to monitor components are those that are buried,
                    insulated, or obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents
                    access to the components by monitoring personnel.

     II.E.6. Leaks requiring repair: Leaks must be identified utilizing the methods
            listed in Section II.E.6. Only leaks from components exceeding the
            thresholds in Section II.E.6. require repair under Section II.E.7.




                                                                                      129
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.6.a. For EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) monitoring, at facilities
                   constructed before May 1, 2014, repair is required for leaks with
                   any concentration of hydrocarbon above 2,000 parts per million
                   (ppm) not associated with normal equipment operation, such as
                   pneumatic device actuation and crank case ventilation, except for
                   well production facilities where a leak is defined as any
                   concentration of hydrocarbon above 500 ppm not associated with
                   normal equipment operation, such as pneumatic device actuation
                   and crank case ventilation.

           II.E.6.b. For EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) monitoring, at facilities
                   constructed on or after May 1, 2014, repair is required for leaks
                   with any concentration of hydrocarbon above 500 ppm not
                   associated with normal equipment operation, such as pneumatic
                   device actuation and crank case ventilation.

           II.E.6.c. For infra-red camera and AVO monitoring, repair is required for
                   leaks with any detectable emissions not associated with normal
                   equipment operation, such as pneumatic device actuation and
                   crank case ventilation.

           II.E.6.d. For other Division approved instrument monitoring methods or
                   programs, leak identification requiring repair will be established as
                   set forth in the Division’s approval.

           II.E.6.e. Except as provided in Sections II.E.6.f. or II.E.6.g., for leaks
                   identified using an approved non-quantitative instrument
                   monitoring method or AVO, owners or operators have the option of
                   either repairing the leak in accordance with the repair schedule
                   set forth in Section II.E.7.a. or conducting follow-up monitoring
                   using EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) within five (5) working
                   days of the leak detection. If the follow-up EPA Method 21 (August
                   3, 2017) monitoring shows that the emission is a leak requiring
                   repair as set forth in Section II.E.6., the leak must be repaired in


                                                                                        130
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   accordance with Section II.E.7.a. and remonitored in accordance
                   with Section II.E.7.c.

           II.E.6.f. Beginning on March 1, 2021, for leaks identified using an
                   approved non-quantitative instrument monitoring method or AVO
                   at a well production facility located within 1,000 feet of an
                   occupied area, owners or operators have the option of either
                   repairing the leak in accordance with the repair schedule set forth
                   in Section II.E.7.b. or conducting follow-up monitoring using EPA
                   Method 21 (August 3, 2017) within five (5) working days of the
                   leak detection. If the follow-up EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017)
                   monitoring shows that the emission is a leak requiring repair as
                   set forth in Sections II.E.6.a. through II.E.6.d., the leak must be
                   repaired as follows and remonitored in accordance with Section
                   II.E.7.c.

                 II.E.6.f.(i)    If EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) indicates a leak
                          greater than 500 ppm and less than 10,000 ppm
                          hydrocarbons, the leak must be repaired in accordance with
                          Section II.E.7.a.

                 II.E.6.f.(ii)   If EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) is not performed
                          or indicates a leak greater than or equal to 10,000 ppm
                          hydrocarbons, the leak must be repaired in accordance with
                          Section II.E.7.b.

           II.E.6.g. Beginning February 14, 2022, for leaks identified using an
                   approved non-quantitative instrument monitoring method or AVO
                   at a well production facility located within a disproportionately
                   impacted community or at a well production facility inspected
                   pursuant to Section II.E.4.f., owners or operators have the option
                   of either repairing the leak in accordance with the repair schedule
                   set forth in Section II.E.7.b. or conducting follow-up monitoring
                   using EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) within five (5) working


                                                                                       131
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   days of the leak detection. If the follow-up EPA Method 21 (August
                   3, 2017) monitoring shows that the emission is a leak requiring
                   repair as set forth in Sections II.E.6.a. through II.E.6.d., the leak
                   must be repaired as follows and remonitored in accordance with
                   Section II.E.7.c.

                  II.E.6.g.(i)     If EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) indicates a leak
                          greater than 500 ppm and less than 10,000 ppm
                          hydrocarbons, the leak must be repaired in accordance with
                          Section II.E.7.a.

                  II.E.6.g.(ii)    If EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017) is not performed
                          or indicates a leak greater than or equal to 10,000 ppm
                          hydrocarbons, the leak must be repaired in accordance with
                          Section II.E.7.b.

     II.E.7. Repair and remonitoring

           II.E.7.a. Except as provided in Section II.E.7.b., the first attempt to repair a
                   leak must be made no later than five (5) working days after
                   discovery and repair of a leak discovered on or after January 1,
                   2018, completed no later than thirty (30) working days after
                   discovery, unless parts are unavailable, the equipment requires
                   shutdown to complete repair, or other good cause exists.

                  II.E.7.a.(i)     If parts are unavailable, they must be ordered
                          promptly and the repair must be made within fifteen (15)
                          working days of receipt of the parts.

                  II.E.7.a.(ii)    If shutdown is required, a repair attempt must be
                          made during the next scheduled shutdown and final repair
                          completed within two (2) years after discovery.

                  II.E.7.a.(iii)   If delay is attributable to other good cause, repairs
                          must be completed within fifteen (15) working days after the
                          cause of delay ceases to exist.



                                                                                           132
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.E.7.a.(iv)   Beginning February 14, 2022, the owner or operator
                          must take action(s) where technically feasible to mitigate
                          emissions from leaks placed on delay of repair within no
                          later than 48 hours of placing a leaking component on delay
                          of repair.

           II.E.7.b. For leaks requiring repair pursuant to Sections II.E.6.f. and
                   II.E.6.g., the first attempt to repair must be made as soon as
                   practicable but no later than five (5) working days after discovery
                   and completed within five (5) working days after discovery. If
                   repair is not completed within five (5) working days after discovery,
                   the owner or operator must use other means to stop the leak
                   including, but not limited to, isolating the component or shutting in
                   the well, unless such other means will cause greater emissions.

                  II.E.7.b.(i)    If the owner or operator cannot repair or stop the leak
                          within five (5) working days after discovery, the owner or
                          operator must notify the local government with jurisdiction
                          over the location and the Division as soon as possible, but
                          no later than seven (7) working days after the leak is
                          discovered. The notice must include

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(A) Identification of the facility, the leaking
                                  component, and contact information of the owner or
                                  operator representative;

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(B) The concentration of hydrocarbons using EPA
                                  Method 21 (August 3, 2017), if available;

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(C) Instructions to access the infrared camera
                                  video footage of the leak, if available;

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(D) The approximate distance of the facility to the
                                  closest occupied area that is not an outdoor area;




                                                                                        133
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(E) The basis for the delay of repair and
                                 justification for not isolating the component or shutting
                                 in the well; and

                          II.E.7.b.(i)(F) The estimated date of repair.

           II.E.7.c. Within fifteen (15) working days of completion of a repair, the leak
                    must be remonitored using an approved instrument monitoring
                    method to verify that the repair was effective.

           II.E.7.d. Leaks discovered pursuant to the leak detection methods of
                    Section II.E.6. are not subject to enforcement by the Division
                    unless the owner or operator fails to perform the required repairs
                    in accordance with Section II.E.7. or keep required records in
                    accordance with Section II.E.8.

     II.E.8. Recordkeeping: The owner or operator of each facility subject to the leak
           detection and repair requirements in Section II.E. must maintain the
           following records for a period of two (2) years and make them available to
           the Division upon request.

           II.E.8.a. Documentation of the initial approved instrument monitoring
                    method inspection for new well production facilities;

           II.E.8.b. The date, facility name, and facility AIRS ID or facility location if
                    the facility does not have an AIRS ID for each inspection;

           II.E.8.c. For each inspection, a list of the leaking components requiring
                    repair and the monitoring method(s) used to determine the
                    presence of the leak;

           II.E.8.d. The date and result of any EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017)
                    monitoring relied upon to demonstrate a leak is not subject to
                    Section II.E.7.b.;

           II.E.8.e. The date of first attempt to repair the leak and, if necessary, any
                    additional attempt to repair the leak;



                                                                                         134
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.8.f. The date the leak was repaired and for leaks discovered and
                   repaired on or after January 1, 2018, the type of repair method
                   applied;

           II.E.8.g. Documentation of actions taken pursuant to Section II.E.7.b. to
                   stop a leak that was not repaired within five (5) working days after
                   discovery or documentation that such actions would cause greater
                   emissions;

           II.E.8.h. Copies of all notices submitted pursuant to Section II.E.7.b.(i) and
                   the infrared camera video footage of leaks that required notice
                   pursuant to Section II.E.7.b.(i);

           II.E.8.i. The delayed repair list, including the basis for placing leaks on the
                   list;

                  II.E.8.i.(i)    For leaks discovered on or after January 1, 2018, the
                           delayed repair list must include the date and duration of any
                           period where the repair of a leak was delayed due to
                           unavailable parts, required shutdown, or delay for other good
                           cause, the basis for the delay, and the schedule for repairing
                           the leak. Delay of repair beyond thirty (30) days after initial
                           discovery due to unavailable parts must be reviewed, and a
                           record kept of that review, by a representative of the owner
                           or operator with responsibility for leak detection and repair
                           compliance functions. This review will not be made by the
                           individual making the initial determination to place a part on
                           the delayed repair list.

                  II.E.8.i.(ii)   For leaks discovered after March 1, 2021, that require
                           repair pursuant to Section II.E.7.b., the delayed repair list
                           must include the date and duration of leaks for which repairs
                           were not completed within five (5) working days after
                           discovery, and the schedule for repairing the leak.




                                                                                           135
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   II.E.8.i.(iii)   For leaks discovered after February 14, 2022,
                            pursuant to Section II.E.6.g., that require repair pursuant to
                            Section II.E.7.b., the delayed repair list must include the date
                            and duration of leaks for which repairs were not completed
                            within five (5) working days after discovery, and the schedule
                            for repairing the leak, including, but not limited to, the date
                            upon which necessary parts were ordered.

                   II.E.8.i.(iv)    For leaks discovered after February 14, 2022, the
                            delayed repair list must include a description of action(s)
                            taken to mitigate the emissions from the leak or the reasons
                            why mitigation was not technically feasible, as required
                            under Section II.E.7.a.(iv).

            II.E.8.j. The date the leak was remonitored and the results of the
                    remonitoring;

            II.E.8.k. A list of components that are designated as unsafe, difficult, or
                    inaccessible to monitor, as described in Section II.E.5., an
                    explanation stating why the component is so designated, and the
                    schedule for monitoring such component(s); and

            II.E.8.l. Documentation of the owner or operator’s proximity analysis, if
                    applicable, including the date of the initial and any subsequent
                    analysis and a description of the methodology used for the
                    analysis.

     II.E.9. Reporting. The owner or operator of each facility subject to the leak
            detection and repair requirements in Section II.E. must submit a single
            annual report using the Division-approved format on or before May 31st of
            each year (beginning May 31st, 2019) that includes, at a minimum, the
            following information regarding leak detection and repair activities at their
            subject facilities conducted the previous calendar year:




                                                                                          136
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.E.9.a. The total number of well production facilities and total number of
                       natural gas compressor stations inspected;

               II.E.9.b. The total number of inspections performed per inspection
                       frequency tier of well production facilities and inspection frequency
                       tier of natural gas compressor stations;

               II.E.9.c. The total number of identified leaks requiring repair, broken out by
                       component type, monitoring method, and inspection frequency tier
                       of well production facilities, as reported in Section II.E.9.b., or
                       inspection frequency tier of natural gas compressor stations;

               II.E.9.d. The total number of leaks repaired for each inspection frequency
                       tier of well production facilities, as reported in Section II.E.9.b., or
                       inspection frequency tier of natural gas compressor stations;

               II.E.9.e. The total number of leaks on the delayed repair list as of
                       December 31st broken out by component type, inspection
                       frequency tier of well production facilities, as reported in Section
                       II.E.9.b., or inspection frequency tier of natural gas compressor
                       stations, and the basis for each delay of repair. This total does not
                       include leaks that have been stopped through other means, as
                       specified in Section II.E.7.b.;

               II.E.9.f. The record of all reviews conducted for delayed repairs due to
                       unavailable parts extending beyond 30 days for the previous
                       calendar year; and

               II.E.9.g. Each report must be accompanied by a certification by a
                       responsible official that, based on information and belief formed
                       after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the
                       document are true, accurate, and complete

II.F.   Control of emissions from well production facilities.

        Well Operation and Maintenance:




                                                                                             137
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.F.1. On or after August 1, 2014, gas coming off a separator, produced during
              normal operation from any newly constructed, hydraulically fractured, or
              recompleted oil and gas well, must either be routed to a gas gathering line
              or controlled from commencement of operation by air pollution control
              equipment that achieves an average hydrocarbon control efficiency of
              95%.

        II.F.2. On or after February 14, 2022, gas coming off a separator, produced
              during normal operation from any oil and gas well, must either be routed to
              a gas gathering line or controlled by air pollution control equipment that
              achieves a hydrocarbon control efficiency of 95%, unless emitting to the
              atmosphere is authorized pursuant to a variance issued by the Colorado
              Oil and Gas Conservation Commission.

        II.F.3. If a combustion device is used, it must have a design destruction efficiency
              of at least 98% for hydrocarbons.

II.G.   (State Only) Emission reductions from downhole well maintenance, well liquids
        unloading events, and well plugging activities.

        II.G.1. Beginning May 1, 2014, owners or operators must use best management
              practices to minimize hydrocarbon emissions and the need for emissions
              from the well associated with downhole well maintenance, well liquids
              unloading, and well plugging (beginning January 31, 2020), unless
              emitting is necessary for safety. The emitting as necessary for safety
              exemption does not apply to Section II.G.1.c.

              II.G.1.a. Prior to January 1, 2023, during liquids unloading events, any
                       means of creating differential pressure must first be used to
                       attempt to unload the liquids from the well without emitting. If
                       these methods are not successful in unloading the liquids from the
                       well, the well may emit in order to create the necessary differential
                       pressure to bring the liquids to the surface.




                                                                                          138
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.G.1.b. The owner or operator must be present on-site during any
                   planned downhole well maintenance, well liquids unloading, or
                   well plugging event and must ensure that any emissions from the
                   well associated with the event are limited to the maximum extent
                   practicable.

           II.G.1.c. Beginning January 1, 2023, for all downhole well maintenance
                   and well liquids unloading activities with emissions to atmosphere,
                   owners or operators must, consistent with well site conditions and
                   good engineering practices

                 II.G.1.c.(i)     Use best engineering practices in the design and
                         construction of oil and gas wells and well production facilities
                         that commence operation after January 1, 2023, to minimize
                         the need for well liquids unloading with emissions to
                         atmosphere and other downhole well maintenance as the
                         well ages.

                 II.G.1.c.(ii)    Attempt to create differential pressure to unload the
                         liquids from the well without emitting.

                 II.G.1.c.(iii)   Monitor wellhead pressure and/or flow rate of the
                         vented natural gas.

                 II.G.1.c.(iv)    Equalize the wellhead pressure with the production
                         separator pressure prior to conducting unloading, swabbing,
                         or maintenance activities, when practicable.

                 II.G.1.c.(v)     Close wellhead vents to the atmosphere or otherwise
                         end direct emission of natural gas to atmosphere as soon as
                         practicable.

                 II.G.1.c.(vi)    Minimize emissions to atmosphere from well liquids
                         unloading and well swabbing, through the installation, use,
                         and optimization of artificial lift, such as plunger lift with
                         smart automation, except



                                                                                          139
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.G.1.c.(vi)(A)       Artificial lift is not required where an
                                operator demonstrates to the Division that installation
                                and use of artificial lift is technically infeasible on a
                                well because of the structure of the well.

                         II.G.1.c.(vi)(B)       Smart automation is not required where
                                an operator demonstrates to the Division that use of
                                smart automation is technically infeasible.

                         II.G.1.c.(vi)(C)       Artificial lift is not required on a well
                                drilled after February 14, 2022, until that well begins
                                requiring regular liquids unloading operations. The
                                owner or operator must install artificial lift at such well
                                no later than twelve months after the well commences
                                operation.

                         II.G.1.c.(vi)(D)       The Division can approve an alternative
                                to artificial lift if the owner or operator demonstrates
                                that use of artificial lift would result in an emissions
                                increase or other environmental disbenefit.

           II.G.1.d. Beginning January 1, 2023, unless exempted in Sections
                  II.G.1.d.(i) or II.G.1.d.(ii), owners or operators must use capture
                  and recovery techniques or install and use a control device to
                  achieve at least 95% control of hydrocarbon emissions during well
                  liquids unloading and well swabbing operations. Notwithstanding
                  any provision in Section II.B. to the contrary, owners or operators
                  may use open flares and portable combustion devices to comply
                  with this Section II.G.1.d.

                 II.G.1.d.(i)   Owners or operators are not required to use control
                         devices during well swabbing operations if pressurized
                         equipment is used such that hydrocarbons are not emitted to
                         the atmosphere from the well swabbing operation.




                                                                                            140
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.G.1.d.(ii)   Owners or operators are not required to capture or
                         control emissions during well liquids unloading and well
                         swabbing operations if, during the preceding rolling twelve-
                         month period

                         II.G.1.d.(ii)(A)      The well production facility is located
                                 within a disproportionately impacted community and
                                 the operator did not conduct more than or equal to six
                                 (6) well liquids unloading and well swabbing events
                                 with emissions to atmosphere during any rolling six-
                                 month period.

                         II.G.1.d.(ii)(B)      The well production facility is not located
                                 within a disproportionately impacted community and
                                 did not have any single well with more than or equal
                                 or six (6) well liquids unloading and well swabbing
                                 events with emissions to atmosphere during any
                                 rolling six-month period or any well(s), in the
                                 aggregate, with more than or equal to ten (10) well
                                 liquids unloading events and well swabbing with
                                 emissions to atmosphere during any rolling six-month
                                 period.

                         II.G.1.d.(ii)(C)      Capturing or controlling the emissions
                                 from the well liquids unloading or well swabbing event
                                 is technically infeasible, as approved by the Division.




                                                                                         141
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.G.1.d.(ii)(D)       Beginning April 14, 2025,
                                  disproportionately impacted community is defined as
                                  in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or operator must
                                  assess by December 31, 2025, whether the well
                                  production facility is located within a
                                  disproportionately impacted community to determine
                                  the capture and recovery or control requirements for
                                  the calendar year beginning in 2026.

                         II.G.1.d.(ii)(E)       An owner or operator must comply with
                                  any capture, recovery, or control requirement that
                                  becomes applicable solely due to a change in location
                                  as assessed pursuant to Section II.G.1.d.(ii)(D) by no
                                  later than July 1, 2026.

                 II.G.1.d.(iii)   Well liquids unloading events are not included in the
                         calculation for purposes of Section II.G.1.d.(ii) where the
                         need for well liquids unloading resulted from the infiltration of
                         excess water directly caused by a nearby hydraulic
                         fracturing event provided that the owner of the well to be
                         unloaded provides the Division with at least 48 hours written
                         notice (or as soon as possible prior to conducting well liquids
                         unloading if 48 hours’ notice would require an alternative or
                         extended well liquids unloading practice that increases
                         emissions) of the intent to begin unloading and the unloading
                         activities are completed within thirty (30) days of
                         commencement of those activities. The notice must include
                         an identification of the operator that conducted the fracturing
                         event suspected of contributing to the infiltration of water and
                         the well API number(s) of the well that was fractured.

     II.G.2. Recordkeeping




                                                                                       142
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.G.2.a. Through January 31, 2020, the owner or operator must keep
                   records of the cause, date, time, and duration of venting events
                   under Section II.G. Records must be kept for two (2) years and
                   made available to the Division upon request.

           II.G.2.b. Beginning January 31, 2020, or the date specified in Section
                   II.G.2.b.(iii), the owner or operator must keep the following records
                   for two (2) years and make records available to the Division upon
                   request.

                  II.G.2.b.(i)     The cause of emissions (i.e., downhole well
                          maintenance, well liquids unloading, well plugging), date,
                          time, and duration of emissions under Section II.G.

                  II.G.2.b.(ii)    The best management practices used to minimize
                          hydrocarbon emissions or the safety needs that prevented
                          the use of best management practices.

                  II.G.2.b.(iii)   Beginning July 1, 2020, the emissions associated with
                          well liquids unloading, downhole well maintenance, and well
                          plugging.

           II.G.2.c. Beginning January 1, 2023, in addition to the records in Section
                   II.G.2.b., the owner or operator must keep the following records
                   for five (5) years and make records available to the Division upon
                   request.

                  II.G.2.c.(i)     The volume of gas vented during each downhole well
                          maintenance, well liquids unloading and well swabbing, and
                          well plugging event.

                  II.G.2.c.(ii)    The type of artificial lift used to reduce emissions
                          pursuant to Section II.G.1.c.(vi); the number of well liquids
                          unloading and well swabbing events resulting in emissions to
                          atmosphere; or, if applicable, documentation of the
                          justification for not having artificial lift under Section



                                                                                          143
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.G.1.c.(vi). If plunger lift is installed, the number of cycles of
                          the plunger.

                  II.G.2.c.(iii)   Whether the well liquids unloading or well swabbing
                          event was controlled pursuant to Section II.G.1.d. and, if not,
                          the justification for the exemption under Sections II.G.1.d.(i)
                          or II.G.1.d.(ii), including all records relating to Section
                          II.G.1.d.(iii) and records of production during the 30-day time
                          period covered by Section II.G.1.d.(iii) and an estimate of the
                          VOC and methane emissions during that same 30-day time
                          period associated with the well liquids unloading or well
                          maintenance activities.

     II.G.3. Reporting

           II.G.3.a. The owner or operator must submit a single annual report using a
                    Division-approved format on or before June 30th of each year
                    (beginning June 30th, 2021) that includes the following
                    information regarding each downhole well maintenance, well
                    liquids unloading, and well plugging event conducted the previous
                    calendar year that resulted in emissions.

                  II.G.3.a.(i)     The API number of the well and the AIRS number of
                          any associated storage tanks.

                  II.G.3.a.(ii)    Whether the emissions occurred due to downhole well
                          maintenance, well liquids unloading, well swabbing, or well
                          plugging.

                  II.G.3.a.(iii)   The date, time, and duration of the downhole well
                          maintenance, well liquids unloading, or well plugging event,
                          and, beginning with the annual report for calendar year 2023
                          whether the event was controlled.




                                                                                          144
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     II.G.3.a.(iv)   The best management practices used to minimize
                             emissions, including the method used pursuant to Section
                             II.G.1.c.(vi) beginning January 1, 2023.

                     II.G.3.a.(v)    Safety needs that prevented the use of best
                             management practices to minimize emissions, if applicable.

                     II.G.3.a.(vi)   An estimate of the volume of natural gas, VOC, NOx,
                             N2O, CO2, CO, ethane, and methane emitted from the well
                             associated with well liquid unloading activities, downhole
                             well maintenance, and well plugging event and the emission
                             factor or calculation methodology used to determine the
                             volume of natural gas and emissions.

                     II.G.3.a.(vii) Beginning with the annual report submitted June 30th
                             of 2023 (for calendar year 2022), whether the well identified
                             in Section II.G.3.a.(i) is equipped with artificial lift.

II.H.   (State Only) Emission reductions from midstream segment pigging operations
        and blowdowns of piping and equipment.

        II.H.1. Pigging operations and blowdowns of piping and equipment located at
              natural gas compressor stations and natural gas processing plants.

              II.H.1.a. Consistent with the schedule for compliance in Section II.H.1.c., at
                      natural gas compressor stations and natural gas processing
                      plants in disproportionately impacted communities, midstream
                      segment owners or operators must capture and recover
                      hydrocarbon emissions from

                     II.H.1.a.(i)    Pigging units attached to a high-pressure pigging
                             pipeline with an outside diameter of twelve (12) inches or
                             greater.

                     II.H.1.a.(ii)   Pigging units with annual uncontrolled actual
                             emissions equal to or greater than 0.5 tpy VOC or 1 tpy




                                                                                          145
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          methane on a rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a
                          Division-accepted method of calculation.

                  II.H.1.a.(iii)   Blowdowns of compressors, where total uncontrolled
                          actual blowdown emissions from all compressors are greater
                          than or equal to 0.75 tpy VOC or 1.5 tpy methane on a
                          rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a Division-accepted
                          method of calculation. Hydrocarbons emitted during a
                          compressor blowdown event where the physical volume of
                          the compressor is less than fifty (50) cubic feet (cf) are not
                          included in the emissions calculated for purposes of
                          applicability of this Section II.H.1.a.(iii), provided the owner
                          or operator maintains records of the dates and number of
                          such events.

                  II.H.1.a.(iv)    Blowdowns of all equipment and piping not covered
                          by Sections II.H.1.a.(i) through II.H.1.a.(iii) where the
                          physical volume between isolation valves is greater than or
                          equal to fifty (50) cf. This requirement does not apply if the
                          owner or operator can demonstrate that the aggregate
                          uncontrolled actual emissions from blowdowns of all
                          equipment and piping subject to this Section II.H.1.a.(iv) are
                          less than 0.75 tpy VOC and 1.5 tpy methane, provided the
                          owner or operator maintains records of the dates and
                          number of all blowdowns including blowdowns where the
                          physical volume between isolation valves is greater than one
                          (1) cf but less than fifty (50) cf.

           II.H.1.b. Consistent with the schedule for compliance in Section II.H.1.c., at
                   all natural gas compressor stations and natural gas processing
                   plants not located in a disproportionately impacted community,
                   midstream segment owners or operators must capture and
                   recover hydrocarbon emissions from



                                                                                        146
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.1.b.(i)    Pigging units attached to high-pressure pigging
                         pipelines with an outside diameter of twelve (12) inches or
                         greater.

                 II.H.1.b.(ii)   Pigging units with annual uncontrolled actual
                         emissions equal to or greater than 1 tpy VOC or 2 tpy
                         methane on a rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a
                         Division-accepted method of calculation.




                                                                                   147
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.H.1.b.(iii)   Blowdowns of compressors, where total uncontrolled
                          actual blowdown emissions from all compressors are greater
                          than or equal to 1 tpy VOC or 2 tpy methane on a rolling 12-
                          month basis, consistent with a Division-accepted method of
                          calculation. Hydrocarbons emitted during a compressor
                          blowdown event where the physical volume of the
                          compressor is less than fifty (50) cf are not included in the
                          emissions calculated for purposes of applicability of this
                          Section II.H.1.b.(iii), provided the owner or operator
                          maintains records of the dates and number of such events.

                  II.H.1.b.(iv)    Blowdowns of equipment and piping not covered by
                          Sections II.H.1.b.(i) through II.H.1.b.(iii) where the physical
                          volume between isolation valves is greater than or equal to
                          fifty (50) cf. This requirement does not apply if the owner or
                          operator can demonstrate that the aggregate uncontrolled
                          actual emissions from blowdowns of all equipment and
                          piping subject to this Section II.H.1.a.(iv) are less than 1 tpy
                          VOC and 2 tpy methane, provided the owner or operator
                          maintains records of the dates and number of all blowdowns
                          including blowdowns where the physical volume between
                          isolation valves is greater than one (1) cf but less than fifty
                          (50) cf.

           II.H.1.c. Schedule for compliance with Sections II.H.1.a. and II.H.1.b.
                   Midstream segment owners or operators must be in compliance

                  II.H.1.c.(i)     Upon commencement of operation for any natural gas
                          compressor station or natural gas processing plant that
                          commences operation on or after February 14, 2022.

                  II.H.1.c.(ii)    By January 1, 2023, at no less than fifty percent
                          (50%) of natural gas compressor stations and natural gas
                          processing plants that commenced operation before


                                                                                       148
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         February 14, 2022, and that are located within a
                         disproportionately impacted community.

                 II.H.1.c.(iii)   By June 1, 2023, at all natural gas compressor
                         stations and natural gas processing plants that commenced
                         operation before February 14, 2022, and that are located
                         within a disproportionately impacted community.

                 II.H.1.c.(iv)    By January 1, 2024, for all natural gas compressor
                         stations and natural gas processing plants that commenced
                         operation before February 14, 2022.

                 II.H.1.c.(v)     Within sixty (60) days of the first day of the month
                         after which a pigging unit in a disproportionately impacted
                         community not subject to Sections II.H.1.a.(i) or (ii) increases
                         hydrocarbon emissions to 0.5 tpy VOC or 1 tpy methane
                         after the applicable compliance date in Sections II.H.1.c.(i)
                         through II.H.1.c.(iv), on a rolling twelve-month basis.

                 II.H.1.c.(vi)    Within sixty (60) days of the first day of the month
                         after which a pigging unit not located in a disproportionately
                         impacted community and not subject to Sections II.H.1.b.(i)
                         or II.H.1.b.(ii) that increases hydrocarbon emissions to 1 tpy
                         VOC or 2 tpy methane after the applicable compliance date
                         in Sections II.H.1.c.(i) through II.H.1.c.(iv), on a rolling
                         twelve-month basis.

                 II.H.1.c.(vii) Within sixty (60) days of the first day of the month
                         after which blowdowns of compressors or other equipment
                         and piping with a physical volume of the compressor or
                         between isolation valves of equal to or greater than 50 cf
                         located at a natural gas compressor station or natural gas
                         processing plant located in a disproportionately impacted
                         community not subject to Sections II.H.1.a.(iii) or II.H.1.a.(iv)
                         increases hydrocarbon emissions to 0.75 tpy VOC or 1.5 tpy


                                                                                         149
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        methane after the applicable compliance date in Section
                        II.H.1.c.(i)-(iv), on a rolling twelve-month basis.

                 II.H.1.c.(viii) Within sixty (60) days of the first day of the month
                        after which blowdowns of compressors or other equipment
                        and piping with a physical volume of the compressor or
                        between isolation valves of equal to or greater than 50 cf
                        located at a natural gas compressor station or natural gas
                        processing plant not located in a disproportionately impacted
                        community not subject to Sections II.H.1.b.(iii) or II.H.1.b.(iv)
                        increases hydrocarbon emissions to 1 tpy VOC or 2 tpy
                        methane after the applicable compliance date in Sections
                        II.H.1.c.(i) through II.H.1.c.(iv), on a rolling twelve-month
                        basis.




                                                                                        150
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.H.1.c.(ix)   An owner or operator may request an extension of the
                          compliance schedules in Sections II.H.1.c.(ii) through
                          II.H.1.c.(iv) for no more than twelve (12) months. The
                          Division may approve such request if the owner or operator
                          demonstrates that the extension is required to facilitate
                          coordinated engineering and design projects to holistically
                          address compliance with Section II.H. in order to avoid
                          temporary solutions and emissions disbenefits, if any, that
                          may be caused by the compliance schedules in Sections
                          II.H.1.c.(ii) through II.H.1.c.(iv).

                  II.H.1.c.(x)    Beginning April 14, 2025, disproportionately impacted
                          community is defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or
                          operator must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the
                          natural gas compressor station or natural gas processing
                          plant is located within a disproportionately impacted
                          community to determine the capture and recovery or control
                          requirements for the calendar year beginning in 2026.

                  II.H.1.c.(xi)   An owner or operator must comply with any capture,
                          recovery, or control requirement that becomes applicable
                          solely due to a change in location as assessed pursuant to
                          Section II.H.1.c.(x) by no later than July 1, 2026.

           II.H.1.d. Midstream owners or operators must capture and recover
                    hydrocarbon emissions from pigging units that commence
                    operation after February 14, 2022, where the pigging unit is
                    attached to a high-pressure pigging line.

     II.H.2. Pigging operations at standalone pigging stations.

           II.H.2.a. Midstream segment owners or operators must capture and
                    recover hydrocarbon emissions from the following pigging
                    operations at standalone pigging stations that commence
                    operation on or after February 14, 2022.


                                                                                      151
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.2.a.(i)     Pigging units attached to a high-pressure pigging
                         pipeline.

                 II.H.2.a.(ii)    Pigging units located in a disproportionately impacted
                         community with annual uncontrolled actual emissions equal
                         to or greater than 0.5 tpy VOC or 1 tpy methane on a rolling
                         12-month basis, consistent with a Division-accepted method
                         of calculation.

                 II.H.2.a.(iii)   Pigging units not located in a disproportionately
                         impacted community with annual uncontrolled actual
                         emissions greater than or equal to 1 tpy VOC or 2 tpy
                         methane on a rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a
                         Division-accepted method of calculation.

                 II.H.2.a.(iv)    Beginning April 14, 2025, disproportionately impacted
                         community is defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or
                         operator must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the
                         pigging station is located within a disproportionately
                         impacted community to determine the capture and recovery
                         or control requirements for the calendar year beginning in
                         2026.

                 II.H.2.a.(v)     An owner or operator must comply with any capture,
                         recovery, or control requirement that becomes applicable
                         solely due to a change in location as assessed pursuant to
                         Section II.H.2.a.(iv) by no later than July 1, 2026.

           II.H.2.b. Beginning January 1, 2023, at standalone pigging stations that
                   commenced operation before February 14, 2022, located within a
                   disproportionately impacted community, midstream segment
                   owners or operators must capture and recover hydrocarbon
                   emissions from pigging operations




                                                                                      152
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.2.b.(i)     At pigging units with annual uncontrolled actual
                         emissions equal to or greater than 0.5 tpy VOC or 1 tpy
                         methane on a rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a
                         Division-accepted method of calculation.

                 II.H.2.b.(ii)    Where the pigging unit is attached to a high-pressure
                         pigging pipeline with an outside diameter of twelve (12)
                         inches or greater.

                 II.H.2.b.(iii)   A pigging unit not subject to Section II.H.2.b.(i) as of
                         January 1, 2023, that increases hydrocarbon emissions to
                         0.5 tpy VOC or 1 tpy methane must be in compliance with
                         Section II.H.2.b, within sixty (60) days of the first day of the
                         month after which the emissions exceeded the applicable
                         threshold, based on a rolling twelve-month basis.




                                                                                        153
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.2.b.(iv)    Beginning April 14, 2025, disproportionately impacted
                         community is defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or
                         operator must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the
                         pigging station is located within a disproportionately
                         impacted community to determine the capture and recovery
                         or control requirements for the calendar year beginning in
                         2026.

                 II.H.2.b.(v)     An owner or operator must comply with any capture,
                         recovery, or control requirement that becomes applicable
                         solely due to a change in location as assessed pursuant to
                         Section II.H.2.b.(iv) by no later than July 1, 2026.

           II.H.2.c. Beginning January 1, 2024, at standalone pigging stations that
                   commenced operation before February 14, 2022, that are not in a
                   disproportionately impacted community, midstream segment
                   owners or operators must capture and recover hydrocarbon
                   emissions from pigging operations

                 II.H.2.c.(i)     At pigging units with annual uncontrolled actual
                         emissions equal to or greater than 1 tpy VOC or 2 tpy
                         methane on a rolling 12-month basis, consistent with a
                         Division-accepted method of calculation.

                 II.H.2.c.(ii)    Where the pigging unit is attached to a high-pressure
                         pigging pipeline with an outside diameter of twelve (12)
                         inches or greater.

                 II.H.2.c.(iii)   A pigging unit not subject to Section II.H.2.c.(i) as of
                         January 1, 2024, that increases hydrocarbon emissions to 1
                         tpy VOC or 2 tpy methane must be in compliance with
                         Section II.H.2.c. within sixty (60) days of the first day of the
                         month after which the emissions exceeded the applicable
                         threshold, based on a rolling twelve-month basis.




                                                                                        154
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.H.2.c.(iv)   Beginning April 14, 2025, disproportionately impacted
                          community is defined as in Section II.A.11.b. The owner or
                          operator must assess by December 31, 2025, whether the
                          pigging station is located within a disproportionately
                          impacted community to determine the capture and recovery
                          or control requirements for the calendar year beginning in
                          2026.

                  II.H.2.c.(v)    An owner or operator must comply with any capture,
                          recovery, or control requirement that becomes applicable
                          solely due to a change in location as assessed pursuant to
                          Section II.H.2.c.(iv) by no later than July 1, 2026.

     II.H.3. Capture and recovery requirements.

           II.H.3.a. Capture and recovery requirements apply during normal
                   operation.

           II.H.3.b. Capture and recovery requirements do not apply during planned
                   emergency system shutdown testing operations.

           II.H.3.c. Capture and recovery is not required pursuant to Sections
                   II.H.1.a.(iv) or II.H.1.b.(iv) for blowdowns of storage vessels;
                   pressure vessels; or process vessels such as surge vessels,
                   bottom receivers, or knockout vessels, that operate at a pressure
                   less than twenty (20) psig.

           II.H.3.d. Residual emission from depressurization of the blowdown volume
                   remaining after capture and recovery techniques have been
                   implemented are considered in compliance with the capture and
                   recovery requirements of Sections II.H.1. and II.H.2.

           II.H.3.e. Where a natural gas compressor station or natural gas processing
                   plant is connected to an electrical grid, capture and recovery
                   techniques must be powered by non-emitting equipment, where
                   technically and economically feasible. If technically or



                                                                                      155
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   economically infeasible, the midstream owner or operator will
                   maintain a record of the analysis undertaken at the time the
                   pigging unit or piping and equipment became subject to Section
                   II.H.1.

           II.H.3.f. If capture and recovery of the hydrocarbon emissions emitted is
                   not feasible, the owner or operator may request Division approval
                   to use a control device to comply with Sections II.H.1. or II.H.2.
                   The Division may approve the use of open flares to control
                   hydrocarbon emissions from pigging operations and blowdowns
                   under Sections II.H.1. or II.H.2. Any Division approval will include
                   appropriate operating and maintenance requirements for the
                   control device utilized.

                 II.H.3.f.(i)   Pigging operations and blowdowns that are minimized
                         through the use of a control device or closed-vent system as
                         of February 14, 2022, or for which a permit application is
                         pending to require the use of a control device or closed-vent
                         system, as of December 31, 2021, do not need further
                         Division approval to continue use of the control device or
                         closed-vent system for purposes of Sections II.H.1. or II.H.2.
                         The owner or operator utilizing control devices under this
                         Section II.H.3.f.(i) must notify the Division by March 31,
                         2022, that control devices will be used to comply with
                         Sections II.H.1. or II.H.2.

           II.H.3.g. Midstream owners or operators must design and operate natural
                   gas compressor stations, natural gas processing plants, and
                   standalone pigging stations that commence operation on or after
                   January 1, 2023, to maximize the capture and recovery of
                   hydrocarbon emissions from pigging operations and equipment
                   and piping routinely blown down based on technologies and
                   capabilities that are technically and economically feasible at the



                                                                                      156
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   time of facility development. Midstream owners or operators must
                   maintain a record of the analysis undertaken at the time of facility
                   development pursuant to this section for the life of the facility.

     II.H.4. Beginning January 1, 2023, midstream segment owners or operators must
           utilize best practices to minimize emissions from pigging operations and
           blowdowns during normal operations, including all stand-alone pigging
           stations and midstream pipelines not located within the boundaries of a
           natural gas compressor station or natural gas processing plant, including

           II.H.4.a. Keeping pipeline access openings to the atmosphere on the pig
                   receiver closed at all times except when a pig is being placed into
                   or removed from the receiver or during active pipeline
                   maintenance activities.

           II.H.4.b. In the 8-hour ozone control area and northern Weld County,
                   utilizing a liquids management system to reduce the accumulation
                   of liquids in the pigging unit. A liquids management system to
                   include, but is not limited to, use of a pig ramp, process drain, pig
                   receiver on an incline, or a closed liquids containment system.

           II.H.4.c. Where feasible for pipeline blowdowns other than for pigging
                   operations, rerouting gas to the low-pressure system using
                   existing piping connections between high- and low-pressure
                   systems, temporarily resetting or bypassing pressure regulators to
                   reduce system pressure prior to maintenance, or installing
                   temporary connections between high- and low-pressure systems.

                 II.H.4.c.(i)   For purposes of Section II.H.4.c., feasibility requires
                         that a low-pressure line be nearby, be owned or operated by
                         the same midstream owner or operator, and be on
                         contiguous property owned or operated by the midstream
                         owner or operator. Feasibility here also means that the
                         action is economically feasible.




                                                                                        157
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.H.4.c.(ii)    The Division can approve alternatives to the best
                          practices in Section II.H.4.c. where the owner or operator
                          demonstrates that the alternatives will achieve equivalent or
                          better emission reductions.

           II.H.4.d. Creating or updating operating and maintenance plans to provide
                   for the use, where practicable, of the following best practices. The
                   operating and maintenance plan must describe the situations and
                   circumstances where use of the best practice is, and is not,
                   practicable, and must identify the documentation that will enable
                   the Division to confirm whether the best practice was used
                   consistently with the operating and maintenance plan.

                  II.H.4.d.(i)     Using short pig barrels, where it reduces the gas
                          volume for potential release.

                  II.H.4.d.(ii)    Planning for venting-reduction steps, such as pipeline
                          pump-downs techniques (e.g., in-line compressors, portable
                          compressors, ejector), when large vessels and pipelines
                          need to be isolated and depressurized.

                  II.H.4.d.(iii)   Minimizing the volume that must be released. For
                          example, adding stops to isolate a smaller section of a
                          pipeline to reduce the length of pipe that must be vented.

                  II.H.4.d.(iv)    Using inert gases and pigs to perform pipeline purges.

                  II.H.4.d.(v)     Hot tapping to make new connections to pipelines.

                  II.H.4.d.(vi)    Coordinating operational repairs and routine
                          maintenance to minimize the number of emissions events
                          and volume.

     II.H.5. Recordkeeping. The owner or operator must maintain records for a period
           of five (5) years and make them available to the Division upon request,
           including

           II.H.5.a. General records.


                                                                                       158
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.5.a.(i)    If subject to Sections II.H.1.a. or II.H.1.b.,
                         documentation of the methods used to comply with Sections
                         II.H.1.a. or II.H.1.b. If exempt from Sections II.H.1.a. or
                         II.H.1.b., documentation supporting the exemption.

                 II.H.5.a.(ii)   If control equipment is used to comply with Sections
                         II.H.1.a., II.H.1.b., or II.H.1.d., documentation of operating
                         and maintenance activities, and the date and duration of any
                         control equipment downtime during active pigging operations
                         or blowdowns.




                                                                                       159
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.H.5.a.(iii)   Documentation of best practices employed pursuant
                         to Section II.H.4., including any operating and maintenance
                         plans created, updated, or revised under Section II.H.4.d.
                         and the records documenting compliance therewith.

           II.H.5.b. Records of pigging operations.

                 II.H.5.b.(i)     The number of pigging events, whether or not subject
                         to capture or control, including the locations of the pigging
                         event, associated pigging units and facility(ies) (including
                         AIRS ID, if applicable); date and time; diameter and normal
                         operating pressure of pigging pipeline; pressure of pigging
                         unit immediately before and after pigging operations (or after
                         capture and recovery if applicable); volume of gas recovered
                         and released; and type and volume of liquid removed from
                         the pigging unit after pigging operations, if any.

                 II.H.5.b.(ii)    The monthly and annual VOC and methane
                         emissions associated with the pigging operations, in
                         accordance with Division-approved calculation methodology,
                         including the VOC and methane weight percent composition
                         of the fluid transported by the pigging pipeline at normal
                         pipeline operating conditions used in the calculations and the
                         date and location of the sample, or other justification of
                         representative composition data.

           II.H.5.c. Records of blowdowns.

                 II.H.5.c.(i)     The location (by equipment, facility, and AIRS ID, or
                         by equipment and coordinates if no AIRS ID), date and time
                         of blowdown event.

                 II.H.5.c.(ii)    The monthly and annual VOC and methane
                         emissions from blowdowns, aggregated by equipment
                         blown-down.



                                                                                        160
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     II.H.5.c.(iii)   The date, location, identification of equipment or
                             piping and number of blowdown events (other than pigging
                             operations), including identification of whether the volume
                             between isolation valves is less than 50 cf.

II.I.   (State Only) Control of emissions from natural gas-processing plants

        II.I.1. Beginning January 1, 2023, owners or operators of natural gas-processing
              plants that are not subject to the requirements of Section I.G. must comply
              with the leak detection and repair (LDAR) program as provided at 40 CFR
              Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025) unless subject to the LDAR
              program provided at 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025). In
              addition,

              II.I.1.a. The owner or operator must complete repair of components
                      placed on delay of repair within two (2) years or the applicable
                      timeline provided in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July 31,
                      2025) or 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025),
                      whichever is earlier.

              II.I.1.b. The owner or operator must take action(s) to mitigate emissions
                      from leaks placed on delay of repair where technically feasible.

              II.I.1.c. This Section II.I.1. does not apply to process unit equipment at
                      natural gas processing plants complying with Section II.I.2. or 40
                      CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025).

        II.I.2. Beginning January 1, 2027, owners or operators of process unit
              equipment at natural gas-processing plants must comply with the following
              leak detection and repair (LDAR) program, except that owners or
              operators of process unit equipment subject to 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart
              OOOO (July 31, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31,
              2025) must comply with the following LDAR program beginning twelve
              (12) months after EPA approves Colorado’s 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and




                                                                                           161
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           Natural Gas Facilities. Process unit equipment subject to 40 CFR Part 60,
           Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025) are not subject to this Section II.I.2.

           II.I.2.a. Definitions.

                  II.I.2.a.(i)      “Commercial unavailability" includes, but is not limited
                           to, considerations of valve type and size needed for
                           installation, replacement, or repacking; valve operating
                           conditions; compatibility of materials of construction; packing
                           friction; whether the valve is part of a packaged system;
                           retrofit requirements (e.g. re-piping or space limitations); and
                           valve vendor, distributor, or manufacturer recommendations.

                  II.I.2.a.(ii)     “Equipment” means each pump, pressure relief
                           device, open-ended valve or line, valve, and flange or other
                           connector that has the potential to emit methane and any
                           device or system required by this Section II.I.2.

                  II.I.2.a.(iii)    “Existing valve” means a valve that is installed at a
                           natural gas processing plant before the process unit in which
                           the valve is installed becomes subject to this Section II.I.2.

                  II.I.2.a.(iv)     “First attempt at repair” means an action taken for the
                           purpose of stopping or reducing fugitive emissions to the
                           atmosphere. First attempts at repair include, but are not
                           limited to, the following practices where practicable and
                           appropriate: Tightening bonnet bolts; replacing bonnet bolts;
                           tightening packing gland nuts; or injecting lubricant into
                           lubricated packing.

                  II.I.2.a.(v)      “Low-e valve” means a valve (including its specific
                           packing assembly) for which the manufacturer has issued a
                           written warranty or performance guarantee that it will not
                           emit fugitives at greater than 100 ppm in the first five years
                           after being placed in service. A valve may qualify as a low-e



                                                                                          162
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          valve if it is as an extension of another valve that has
                          qualified as a low-e valve.

                 II.I.2.a.(vi)     “Low-e packing” means a valve packing product for
                          which the manufacturer has issued a written warranty or
                          performance guarantee that it will not emit fugitives at
                          greater than 100 ppm in the first five years after installation.
                          Low-e injectable packing is a type of low-e packing product
                          for which the manufacturer has also issued a written
                          warranty or performance guarantee and that can be injected
                          into a valve during a “drill-and-tap” repair of the valve.

                 II.I.2.a.(vii)    “New valve” means a valve that is installed at a
                          natural gas processing plant on or after the date that the
                          process unit in which the valve is installed becomes subject
                          to this Section II.I.2. This includes valves newly added to the
                          process unit, valves installed to replace existing valves, and
                          existing valves that are repacked.

                 II.I.2.a.(viii)   “Optical gas imaging” (OGI) means, for this Section
                          II.I.2., an instrument that meets the specifications in
                          Appendix K to 40 C.F.R. Part 60 (March 8, 2024).

                 II.I.2.a.(ix)     “Process unit” means components assembled for the
                          extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, the
                          fractionation of the liquids into natural gas products, or other
                          operations associated with the processing of natural gas
                          products. A process unit can operate independently if
                          supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient
                          storage facilities for the products.

                 II.I.2.a.(x)      “Process unit shutdown” means a work practice or
                          operational procedure that stops production from a process
                          unit or part of a process unit during which it is technically
                          feasible to clear process material from a process unit or part


                                                                                          163
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           of a process unit consistent with safety constraints and
                           during which repairs can be accomplished. The following are
                           not considered process unit shutdowns.

                           II.I.2.a.(x)(A) An unscheduled work practice or operational
                                  procedure that stops production from a process unit
                                  or part of a process unit for less than 24 hours.

                           II.I.2.a.(x)(B) An unscheduled work practice or operational
                                  procedure that would stop production from a process
                                  unit or part of a process unit for a shorter period of
                                  time than would be required to clear the process unit
                                  or part of the process unit of materials and start up
                                  the unit, and would result in greater emissions than
                                  delay of repair of leaking components until the next
                                  scheduled process unit shutdown.

                           II.I.2.a.(x)(C) The use of spare equipment and technically
                                  feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping
                                  production.

           II.I.2.b. Equipment applicability.

                  II.I.2.b.(i)    Each piece of equipment is presumed to have the
                           potential to emit methane unless an owner or operator
                           demonstrates that the piece of equipment does not have the
                           potential to emit methane. For a piece of equipment to be
                           considered not to have the potential to emit methane, the
                           methane content of a gaseous stream must be below
                           detection limits using Method 18 (April 1, 2025).

                  II.I.2.b.(ii)   As an alternative to Section II.I.2.b.(i), the owner or
                           operator may choose to determine that the methane content
                           of the stream for equipment in wet gas service is below the




                                                                                           164
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           detection limit of the methods described in ASTM E168-16
                           (R20203), E169-16 (R2022), or E260-96 (April 10, 1996).

                  II.I.2.b.(iii)   The owner or operator must demonstrate that a piece
                           of equipment is in light liquid service by showing that the
                           vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components is
                           greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H2O) at 68 °F), the
                           total concentration of the pure organic components having a
                           vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C is equal to or
                           greater than 20 percent by weight, and the fluid is a liquid at
                           operating conditions.

                  II.I.2.b.(iv)    As an alternative to Section II.I.2.b.(iii), the owner or
                           operator may determine that equipment is in heavy liquid
                           service if the weight percent evaporated is 10 percent or less
                           at 150 °C (302 °F)) as determined by ASTM D86-96 (April
                           10, 1996) and in light liquid service if the weight percent
                           evaporated is greater than 10 percent at 150 °C (302 °F) as
                           determined by ASTM D86-96.

           II.I.2.c. Inspection frequency.

                  II.I.2.c.(i)     Each pump in light liquid service, pressure relief
                           device in gas/vapor service, valve in gas/vapor or light liquid
                           service, and connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service
                           must be inspected for leaks.

                           II.I.2.c.(i)(A) An inspection conducted using OGI in
                                   accordance with 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix K (May 7,
                                   2024) must be conducted bimonthly (i.e., every other
                                   month); or

                           II.I.2.c.(i)(B) An inspection conducted using Method 21
                                   (August 3, 2017) must be conducted




                                                                                          165
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(1)     Monthly for pumps in light liquid
                                     service.

                             II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(2)     Quarterly for pressure relief
                                     devices in gas/vapor service.

                             II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(3)     Quarterly for valves in gas/vapor
                                     or light liquid service.

                             II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(4)     Annually for connectors in
                                     gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
                                     Inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-line
                                     connectors and connectors that are part of an
                                     instrumentation system are exempt from the
                                     annual inspection requirement. A connector is
                                     inaccessible if it is buried, insulated in a
                                     manner that prevents access to the connector
                                     by a monitor probe, obstructed by equipment
                                     or piping that prevents access to the connector
                                     by a monitor probe, unable to be reached from
                                     a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic-type scaffold
                                     that would allow access to connectors up to 7.6
                                     meters (25 feet) above the ground, would
                                     require elevating monitoring personnel more
                                     than 2 meters (7 feet) above a permanent
                                     support surface or would require the erection of
                                     scaffold, or is not able to be accessed at any
                                     time in a same manner (e.g., use of a wheeled
                                     scissor-lift on unstable or uneven terrain, the
                                     use of a motorized man-lift basket in areas
                                     where an ignition potential exists, or access
                                     would require near proximity to hazards such




                                                                                     166
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                        as electrical lines or would risk damage to
                                        equipment) to perform monitoring.

                          II.I.2.c.(i)(C) Reserved.

                 II.I.2.c.(ii)   Exemptions and exceptions.

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(A) Pressure relief devices routed to a process or
                                 fuel gas system are exempt from the inspection
                                 requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B).

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(B) Pressure relief devices equipped with a rupture
                                 disk, provided the owner or operator installs a new
                                 rupture disk upstream of the pressure relief device as
                                 soon as practicable but no later than five (5) calendar
                                 days after each pressure release, are exempt from
                                 the inspection requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(1).

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(C) Pumps equipped with a dual mechanical seal
                                 system that includes a barrier fluid system are exempt
                                 from the inspection requirement in Section
                                 II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(2) if each dual mechanical seal system is
                                 operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at
                                 all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure,
                                 is equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir
                                 that is routed to a process of fuel gas system or is
                                 equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid
                                 into a process stream with zero methane emissions to
                                 atmosphere; the barrier fluid system is in heavy liquid
                                 service or does not have the potential to emit
                                 methane; and each barrier fluid system is equipped
                                 with a sensor that is checked daily or equipped with
                                 an audible alarm and that will detect failure of the seal
                                 system, barrier fluid system, or both.




                                                                                        167
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.I.2.c.(ii)(D) Pumps from which emissions are not identified,
                              meaning an annual Method 21 (Aug. 3, 2017) reading
                              is less than 500 ppmv above background, and that
                              have no externally actuated shaft penetrating the
                              pump housing are exempt from the inspection
                              requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(2).

                       II.I.2.c.(ii)(E) Reserved.

                       II.I.2.c.(ii)(F) Pumps designated as unsafe-to-monitor
                              because monitoring personnel would be exposed to
                              an immediate danger during monitoring and the
                              owner or operator has a written plan to monitor the
                              pump as frequently as practicable during safe-to-
                              monitor times, but not more frequently than the
                              periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable,
                              are exempt from the inspection requirement in
                              Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(2).

                       II.I.2.c.(ii)(G) Pumps in light liquid service, pressure relief
                              devices in gas/vapor service, valves in gas/vapor and
                              light liquid service, and connectors in gas/vapor
                              service and in light liquid service that are located at a
                              nonfractionating plant that does not have the design
                              capacity to process 283,000 scmd (10 million scf per
                              day) are exempt from the monitoring requirements in
                              Sections II.I.2.c.(i)(A) and II.I.2.c.(i)(B).

                       II.I.2.c.(ii)(H) Valves in gas/vapor or light liquid service
                              designated as unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring
                              personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger
                              during monitoring and the owner or operator has a
                              written plan to monitor the valve as frequently as
                              practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more


                                                                                         168
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule
                                  otherwise applicable, are exempt from the inspection
                                  requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(3).

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(I) Valves in gas/vapor or light liquid service
                                  designated as difficult-to-monitor because the valve
                                  cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring
                                  personnel more than two (2) meters above a support
                                  service, the process unit within which the valve is
                                  located has less than 3.0 percent of its total number
                                  of valves designated as difficult-to-monitor, and the
                                  owner or operator has a written plan to monitor the
                                  valve at least once per calendar year are exempt from
                                  the inspection requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(i)(B)(3).

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(J) Equipment that is designated in vacuum
                                  service, except connectors in gas/vapor or light liquid
                                  service, is exempt from the requirements in Section
                                  II.I.2.c.

                          II.I.2.c.(ii)(K) Equipment that is designated as having the
                                  potential to emit methane less than 300 hr/yr and has
                                  the potential to emit methane only during startup and
                                  shutdown, has the potential to emit methane only
                                  during process malfunctions or other emergencies, or
                                  is backup equipment that has the potential to emit
                                  methane only when the primary equipment is out of
                                  service is exempt from the requirements in Section
                                  II.I.2.c.

                 II.I.2.c.(iii)   Owners or operators must also conduct weekly visual
                          inspections of each pump in light liquid service for
                          indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal.

                          II.I.2.c.(iii)(A) Reserved.


                                                                                         169
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.I.2.c.(iii)(B) Pumps located within the boundary of an
                                 unmanned plant site are exempt from the weekly
                                 visual inspection requirement but must be inspected
                                 as often as practicable and at least bimonthly (i.e.,
                                 every other month).

                 II.I.2.c.(iv)   Owners or operators must also monitor each pressure
                          relief device in gas/vapor service for leaks within five (5)
                          calendar days after the owner or operator has detected a
                          pressure release.

                          II.I.2.c.(iv)(A) Pressure relief devices located in a
                                 nonfractionating plant that is monitored only by non-
                                 plant personnel may be monitored after a pressure
                                 release the next time the monitoring personnel are
                                 onsite or within thirty (30) days after a pressure
                                 release, whichever is sooner but not longer than thirty
                                 (30) days.

                          II.I.2.c.(iv)(B) Pressure relief devices routed to a process or
                                 fuel gas system are exempt from the inspection
                                 requirement in Section II.I.2.c.(iv).

           II.I.2.d. Open-ended valves and lines.

                 II.I.2.d.(i)    Owners or operators must equip open-ended valves
                          or lines with a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve that
                          seals the open end of the valve or line at all times except
                          during operations requiring process fluid flow through the
                          open-ended valve or line.

                          II.I.2.d.(i)(A) Open-ended valves or lines equipped with a
                                 second valve must be operated such that the valve on
                                 the process fluid end is closed before the second
                                 valve is closed.



                                                                                         170
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           II.I.2.d.(i)(B) When a double block-and-bleed system is
                                  used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during
                                  operations that require venting the line between the
                                  block valves but must remain closed at all other times.

                           II.I.2.d.(i)(C) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency
                                  shutdown system that are designed to open
                                  automatically in the event of a process upset are
                                  exempt from the requirement in Section II.I.2.d.(i).

                           II.I.2.d.(i)(D) Open-ended valves or lines containing
                                  materials that would autocatalytically polymerize or
                                  present an explosion, serious overpressure, or other
                                  safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double
                                  block-and-bleed system are exempt from the
                                  requirement in Section II.I.2.d.(i).

           II.I.2.e. Reserved.

           II.I.2.f. Reserved.

           II.I.2.g. Leaks requiring repair.

                  II.I.2.g.(i)    A leak is detected if, during an inspection required by
                           this section

                           II.I.2.g.(i)(A) For inspections conducted using OGI or AVO,
                                  any emissions are observed; or

                           II.I.2.g.(i)(B) For inspections conducted using the
                                  procedures of Method 21 (August 3, 2017),

                                  II.I.2.g.(i)(B)(1)    A concentration at or above 2,000
                                          ppmv is detected for a pump in light liquid
                                          service;




                                                                                         171
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(B)(2)    A concentration at or above 500
                                      ppmv is detected for a pressure relief device in
                                      gas/vapor service;

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(B)(3)    A concentration at or above 500
                                      ppmv is detected for a valve or connector in
                                      gas/vapor and light liquid service; and

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(B)(4)    Reserved.

                       II.I.2.g.(i)(C) For pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy
                              liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid
                              or heavy liquid service, a leak is detected if evidence
                              of a potential leak is found at any time by AVO or
                              other detection method. Owners or operators must

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(C)(1)    Monitor the equipment within five
                                      (5) calendar days using EPA Method 21
                                      (August 3, 2017). A concentration at or above
                                      10,000 ppmv is considered a leak requiring
                                      repair; or

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(C)(2)    Designate the evidence of a
                                      potential leak as a leak requiring repair in
                                      accordance with Section II.I.2.h.

                       II.I.2.g.(i)(D) If there are indications of liquids dripping from
                              the pump seal of a pump in light liquid service
                              observed during the weekly visual inspection, the
                              owner or operator must

                              II.I.2.g.(i)(D)(1)    Monitor the pump within five (5)
                                      calendar days of observing the liquids dripping
                                      using OGI or Method 21 (August 3, 2017). A
                                      leak is detected if any emissions are observed




                                                                                     172
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                         using OGI or if a concentration at or above
                                         2,000 ppmv is observed with Method 21; or,

                                 II.I.2.g.(i)(D)(2)      Designate the visual indications
                                         of liquids dripping as a leak and repair in
                                         accordance with Section II.I.2.h.

                          II.I.2.g.(i)(E) A leak is detected at a pressure relief device
                                 monitored following a pressure release if any
                                 emissions are observed using OGI or if a
                                 concentration at or above 500 ppmv is observed with
                                 Method 21 (August 3, 2017).

                          II.I.2.g.(i)(F) A leak detected at an open-ended valve or line
                                 when the valve or line is sealed or closed must be
                                 repaired. Any emissions observed using OGI or
                                 emissions detected at a concentration at or above
                                 500 ppmv observed with Method 21 (August 3, 2017)
                                 is a leak.

                          II.I.2.g.(i)(G) A leak detected at a pump, valve, or connector
                                 in heavy liquid service or at a pressure relief device in
                                 light liquid or heavy liquid service must be repaired.
                                 Any emissions observed using OGI or AVO or
                                 emissions detected at a concentration at or above
                                 10,000 ppmv observed with Method 21 (August 3,
                                 2017) is a leak.

           II.I.2.h. Repair, replacement, and remonitoring.

                 II.I.2.h.(i)    The owner or operator must repair leaks in
                          accordance with this Section II.I.2.h., including valves
                          subject to Section II.I.2.h.(ii).

                          II.I.2.h.(i)(A) The owner or operator must attach a
                                 weatherproof and readily visible identification tag



                                                                                       173
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 marked with the equipment identification number to
                                 the leaking equipment until the leak is repaired.

                          II.I.2.h.(i)(B) The owner or operator must make a first
                                 attempt to repair the leak no later than five (5)
                                 calendar days after a leak is detected. A first attempt
                                 at repair is not required if the leak is detected using
                                 OGI and the equipment identified as leaking would
                                 require elevating the repair personnel more than two
                                 (2) meters above a support surface.

                          II.I.2.h.(i)(C) Leaks must be repaired within fifteen (15)
                                 calendar days after detection, except as provided in
                                 Sections II.I.2.h.(i)(D), II.I.2.h.(i)(E), or II.I.2.h.(iii).

                          II.I.2.h.(i)(D) Repairs of visual indication of liquids dripping
                                 from pumps in light liquid service that can be made by
                                 eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping must
                                 be made within five (5) calendar days after dripping is
                                 observed.

                          II.I.2.h.(i)(E) Repairs of leaks detected at an open-ended
                                 valve or line; at a pump, valve, or connector in heavy
                                 liquid service; or at a pressure relief device in light
                                 liquid or heavy liquid service that can be made by
                                 eliminating the indication of the potential leak must be
                                 made within five (5) calendar days after detection.

                 II.I.2.h.(ii)   Required installation, replacement, or repacking of
                          low-e valves or low-e packing

                          II.I.2.h.(ii)(A) A new valve must be either a low-e valve or
                                 fitted with low-e packing.

                          II.I.2.h.(ii)(B) An existing valve that is a non-low-e valve or
                                 valve not fitted with low-e packing must be either



                                                                                                 174
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              replaced by a low-e valve or fitted with low-e packing
                              if

                              II.I.2.h.(ii)(B)(1)    Emissions from the valve are
                                      detected at a concentration at or above 10,000
                                      ppm during an inspection conducted using
                                      Method 21 (August 3, 2017).

                              II.I.2.h.(ii)(B)(2)    Any emissions from the valve are
                                      observed during an inspection conducted using
                                      OGI, unless the owner or operator
                                      demonstrates through Method 21 monitoring
                                      that the emissions are below 10,000 ppm.

                              II.I.2.h.(ii)(B)(3)    Valves that have been replaced
                                      with a low-e valve or repacked with low-e
                                      packing pursuant to Sections II.I.2.h.(ii)(B)(1)
                                      or II.B.2.h.(ii)(B)(2) that are found to be leaking
                                      per Section II.I.2.g.(i) are subject to the repair
                                      requirements in Section II.I.2.h.(i).

                       II.I.2.h.(ii)(C) Valves that require replacement with a low-e
                              valve or repacking with low-e packing pursuant to
                              Sections II.I.2.h.(ii)(A) or II.I.2.h.(ii)(B) must be
                              replaced or repacked before the end of the next
                              process unit shutdown, except

                              II.I.2.h.(ii)(C)(1)    As provided in Section II.I.2.h.(iii);
                                      or

                              II.I.2.h.(ii)(C)(2)    Where two consecutive
                                      inspections conducted pursuant to Section
                                      II.I.2.c. demonstrate that emissions are below
                                      the levels requiring repair specified in Section
                                      II.I.2.g.



                                                                                       175
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.I.2.h.(ii)(D) An owner or operator is not required to utilize a
                                  low-e valve or low-e packing to replace or repack a
                                  valve where the low-e valve or low-e packing is not
                                  technically feasible. A low-e valve or low-e packing
                                  that is not suitable for its intended use is considered
                                  to be technically infeasible. Additional factors that may
                                  be considered in determining technical infeasibility
                                  include retrofit requirements for installation (e.g., re-
                                  piping or space limitation), commercial unavailability
                                  for valve type, or certain instrumentation assemblies.

                          II.I.2.h.(ii)(E) Valves that have been replaced with a low-e
                                  valve or repacked with low-e packing pursuant to
                                  Sections II.I.2.h.(ii)(A) or II.I.2.h.(ii)(B) that are found
                                  to be leaking pursuant to an inspection conducted in
                                  accordance with Section II.I.2.g. must be repaired as
                                  specified in Section II.I.2.h.(i).

                 II.I.2.h.(iii)   Delay of repair.

                          II.I.2.h.(iii)(A) The owner or operator may delay repair of a
                                  leak, if

                                  II.I.2.h.(iii)(A)(1)     It is technically infeasible to
                                             conduct the repair without a process unit
                                             shutdown;

                                  II.I.2.h.(iii)(A)(2)     The equipment requiring repair is
                                             isolated from the process and does not have
                                             the potential to emit methane;

                                  II.I.2.h.(iii)(A)(3)     The owner or operator
                                             demonstrates that the emissions of purged
                                             material resulting from immediate repair of a
                                             valve or connector is greater than the fugitive



                                                                                             176
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      emissions likely to result from the delay of
                                      repair, so long as when repair is conducted the
                                      purged material is collected and destroyed or
                                      recovered in a control device; or

                              II.I.2.h.(iii)(A)(4)   The repair procedures for a pump
                                      require the use of a dual mechanical seal
                                      system that includes a barrier fluid system and
                                      repair is completed as soon as practicable but
                                      no later than six (6) months after detection.

                       II.I.2.h.(iii)(B) Leaks on delay of repair because repair
                              requires a process unit shutdown must be repaired
                              before the end of the next process unit shutdown
                              unless the next process unit shutdown for a natural
                              gas processing plant located in an ozone
                              nonattainment area is between June and August, in
                              which case the process unit shutdown and associated
                              repair may be delayed until September of the same
                              calendar year.

                       II.I.2.h.(iii)(C) Leaks on delay of repair because the valve
                              must be repacked or replaced may be delayed.

                       II.I.2.h.(iii)(D) Delay of repair beyond the next process unit
                              shutdown is allowed for a valve if valve assembly
                              replacement is necessary during the process unit
                              shutdown, valve assembly supplies at the natural gas
                              processing plant have been depleted, and valve
                              assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked
                              before the supplies were depleted. This delay is not
                              allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs
                              sooner than six (6) months after the first process unit
                              shutdown.


                                                                                      177
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          II.I.2.h.(iii)(E) Leaks at pumps, valves, or connectors on
                                   delay of repair may be considered to be repaired and
                                   no longer on delay of repair if two consecutive
                                   bimonthly monitoring shows that no leak remains.

                          II.I.2.h.(iii)(F) The owner or operator must take action(s) to
                                   mitigate emissions from leaks placed on delay of
                                   repair where technically feasible.

                 II.I.2.h.(iv)     Within fifteen (15) calendar days of completion of a
                          repair, the leak must be remonitored using OGI or EPA
                          Method 21 (August 3, 2017) to verify that the repair was
                          effective. Pumps in light liquid service repaired in
                          accordance with Section II.I.2.h.(i)(D) are not subject to
                          remonitoring to verify repair.

           II.I.2.i Recordkeeping.

                 II.I.2.i.(i)      Owners or operators must maintain the following
                          records for at least five (5) years and make records available
                          to the Division upon request.

                          II.I.2.i.(i)(A)   Records of process unit identification for each
                                   process unit and date the process unit becomes
                                   subject to this Section II.I.2.

                          II.I.2.i.(i)(B)   Records of process unit equipment monitoring
                                   inspections including the date and times of the
                                   inspection, inspector name, leak determination
                                   method, type of equipment monitored, process unit
                                   identification, and applicable OGI inspection records
                                   in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix K (May 7, 2024).

                          II.I.2.i.(i)(C)   Records of leaks detected and repaired,
                                   replaced, or repacked, including




                                                                                        178
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(1)      The instrument and operator
                                         identification numbers;

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(2)      The process unit and equipment
                                         identification numbers;

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(3)      The date the leak was detected;

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(4)      The date and repair method for
                                         the first attempt to repair and for the final repair
                                         of the leak;

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(5)      The date of remonitoring to verify
                                         repair and the monitoring method used to
                                         confirm the repair;

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(6)      The reason for delay of repair or
                                         delay of valve replacement or repacking and
                                         expected date of successful repair; and

                                II.I.2.i.(i)(C)(7)      Equipment identification numbers
                                         of equipment from which emissions are not
                                         identified pursuant to Section II.I.2.c.(ii)(D),
                                         designated as unsafe-to-monitor or difficult-to-
                                         monitor, designated in vacuum service, as
                                         having the potential to emit methane less than
                                         300 hr/yr, and valves determined infeasible to
                                         replace or repack with low-e valves or packing
                                         technology and the reason why it was
                                         infeasible.

                       II.I.2.i.(i)(D)   Records of visual inspections of pumps in light
                                liquid service including the date of the inspection,
                                inspector name, and the result of the inspection (i.e.,
                                indications of liquids dripping or no indication of
                                liquids dripping).



                                                                                            179
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           II.I.2.i.(i)(E)   Dates of installation, repair, or repacking, as
                                    applicable, of low-e valves and low-e packing.

                           II.I.2.i.(i)(F)   Records of manufacturer low-e valve and low-e
                                    packing written warranty or performance guarantee
                                    for each type or class of low-e valve and low-e
                                    packing used to comply with Section II.I.2.h.(ii).

           II.I.2.j. Reporting

                  II.I.2.j.(i)      In addition to the information required to be reported
                           pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V., owners
                           or operators must report, semi-annually

                           II.I.2.j.(i)(A)   Company name, physical street address, and
                                    name and contact information of the company
                                    representative, for reporting purposes.

                           II.I.2.j.(i)(B)   The date of submittal and the period covered
                                    by the report.

                           II.I.2.j.(i)(C)   For each process unit, process unit
                                    identification and number of valves, pumps,
                                    connectors, and pressure relief devices subject to
                                    monitoring.

                           II.I.2.j.(i)(D)   For each process unit, the number of valves;
                                    pumps; connectors; pressure relief devices; open-
                                    ended valves or lines; and pumps, valves, or
                                    connectors in heavy liquid service or pressure relief
                                    devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service for which
                                    leaks were detected.

                           II.I.2.j.(i)(E)   For each process unit, the number of valves;
                                    pumps; connectors; pressure relief devices; open-
                                    ended valves or lines; and pumps, valves, or
                                    connectors in heavy liquid service or pressure relief


                                                                                           180
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service for which
                                      leaks were not repaired.

                             II.I.2.j.(i)(F)   Explanation for each delay of repair or delay of
                                      valve replacement or repacking and, where
                                      appropriate, why the repair, replacement, or repacking
                                      was technically infeasible without a process unit
                                      shutdown.

                             II.I.2.j.(i)(G) Dates of process unit shutdowns.

                             II.I.2.j.(i)(H)   Certification by a certifying official of truth,
                                      accuracy, and completeness of the report.

II.J.   Wet and Dry Seal Centrifugal Compressors

        II.J.1. Beginning January 1, 2027, owners or operators of centrifugal
              compressors, including those equipped with wet or dry seals, in the crude
              oil and natural gas source category must begin to implement one of the
              methane emissions requirement options specified in Sections II.J.1.a
              through II.J.1.d., unless subject to the centrifugal compressor
              requirements in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025).
              Beginning six (6) months after the date EPA approves Colorado’s 111(d)
              Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities, these provisions apply to
              centrifugal compressors subject to 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July
              31, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025). These
              provisions do not apply to centrifugal compressors located at a well
              production facility, unless the well production facility is classified as a
              centralized well production facility, pursuant to Section II.A.5. of this Part
              B.

              II.J.1.a. Control of wet seal emissions.

                     II.J.1.a.(i)     If volumetric flow rate, measured according to Section
                             II.J.1.c., from each wet seal, including self contained wet
                             seals, exceeds 3 standard cubic feet per minute (scfm) per



                                                                                                  181
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          seal, the owner or operator must complete repair in
                          accordance with Section II.J.1.e. If multiple seals are
                          manifolded to a single open-vented line, the total volumetric
                          flow rate threshold that triggers Section II.J.1.e. repair
                          requirements is 3 scfm multiplied by the number of seals
                          connected to the vent.

                          II.J.1.a.(i)(A) Initial volumetric flow rate measurements must
                                 be conducted on or before 8,760 hours of operation
                                 after the applicable compliance date in Section II.J.1.,
                                 or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after
                                 compressor startup, whichever date is later.
                                 Measurements must be made in accordance with
                                 II.J.1.c.

                          II.J.1.a.(i)(B) Subsequent measurements must be conducted
                                 every 8,760 hours of operation after the date of the
                                 previous measurement.

           II.J.1.b. Control of dry seal emissions.

                  II.J.1.b.(i)   If volumetric flow rate limit, measured according to
                          Section II.J.1.c., from each dry seal, exceeds 10 scfm per
                          seal, the owner or operator must complete repair in
                          accordance with Section II.J.1.e. If multiple dry seals are
                          manifolded to a single open-vented line, the total volumetric
                          flow rate threshold that triggers Section II.J.1.e. repair
                          requirements is 10 scfm multiplied by the number of seals
                          connected to the vent.

                          II.J.1.b.(i)(A) Initial volumetric flow rate measurements must
                                 be conducted on or before 8,760 hours of operation
                                 determined after the applicable compliance date in
                                 Section II.J.1., or on or before 8,760 hours of
                                 operation after compressor startup, whichever date is


                                                                                        182
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                later. Measurements must be made in accordance
                                with II.J.1.c.

                         II.J.1.b.(i)(B) Subsequent measurements must be conducted
                                on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the date of
                                the previous measurement.

           II.J.1.c. Volumetric flow rate measurement.

                 II.J.1.c.(i)   If complying with the volumetric flow rate
                         requirements in Section II.J.1.a. or Section II.J.1.b., for each
                         dry or wet seal centrifugal compressor in operating-mode or
                         in standby-pressurized-mode, volumetric flow rate at
                         standard conditions from each dry or wet seal vent may be
                         determined using any of the methods in Sections
                         II.J.1.c.(i)(A) through II.J.1.c.(i)(D).

                         II.J.1.c.(i)(A) A temporary or permanent flow meter that
                                meets the requirement in EPA Method 2D (August 3,
                                2017) and is calibrated on an annual basis according
                                to the requirements in Method 2D;

                         II.J.1.c.(i)(B) A high-volume sampler according to the
                                methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb,
                                Section 60.5386b(c) (December 3, 2025); or

                         II.J.1.c.(i)(C) Inspect the dry or wet seal vent for emissions
                                during an inspection conducted pursuant to Sections
                                II.E. or II.I.2. If any emissions are detected using an
                                infra-red camera or OGI, emissions are detected by
                                other Division approved instrument based monitoring
                                method or program exceeding the leak detection
                                identification requiring repair threshold established in
                                the approval, or emissions detected greater than 500
                                ppmv using EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017), the



                                                                                     183
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                        owner or operator must conduct a volumetric flow rate
                                        measurement in accordance with Sections
                                        II.J.1.c.(i)(A), II.J.1.c.(i)(B), II.J.1.c.(i)(D), and
                                        II.J.1.c.(ii). If no emissions are detected during the
                                        Section II.E. or II.I.2. inspection, the owner or operator
                                        may assume the volumetric flow rate is zero.

                              II.J.1.c.(i)(D) Any other method that has been validated in
                                        accordance with the procedures specified in EPA
                                        Method 301 (October 7, 2020), subject to EPA
                                        approval.

                   II.J.1.c.(ii)        Measurements conducted on manifolded groups of
                              dry or wet seal centrifugal compressors must be taken at a
                              single point in the manifold downstream of all dry or wet seal
                              compressor inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with
                              other non-compressor emission sources. Measurements
                              must be taken in accordance with the methods in Section
                              II.J.1.c.(i).

           II.J.1.d. As an alternative to the volumetric flow rate requirements for wet
                       and dry seals under Sections II.J.1.a. and II.J.1.b., an owner or
                       operator may instead comply with either Section II.J.1.d.(i) or
                       II.J.1.d.(ii).

                   II.J.1.d.(i)         Route emissions from each centrifugal compressor
                              wet seal fluid degassing system to a control device that
                              achieves at least 95% methane reduction; or

                   II.J.1.d.(ii)        Route emissions from each wet seal fluid degassing
                              system or dry seal system to a process.

           II.J.1.e.          Repair requirements.

                   II.J.1.e.(i)         Except as specified in Section II.J.1.e.(iii), compressor
                              seals must be repaired within ninety (90) calendar days after



                                                                                                 184
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that
                          exceeds the applicable required flow rate per seal.

                 II.J.1.e.(ii)    A follow-up volumetric flow rate measurement must
                          be conducted within fifteen (15) operating days after the
                          repair to document that the rate has been reduced to less
                          than the applicable required flow rate per seal(s).

                 II.J.1.e.(iii)   If repair is technically infeasible, would require a vent
                          blowdown, a compressor station shutdown, or would be
                          unsafe to repair during operation of the unit, the owner or
                          operator may delay repair, and repairs must be completed
                          during the next scheduled compressor station shutdown for
                          maintenance, after a scheduled vent blowdown, or within 2
                          years of the measurement exceeding the applicable flow rate
                          per seal, whichever is earliest. A vent blowdown is the
                          opening of one or more blowdown valves to depressurize
                          major production and processing equipment, other than a
                          storage vessel.

                 II.J.1.e.(iv)    If repair requires replacement of the compressor seal
                          or a part but the required parts are unavailable despite prior
                          stocking, parts must be ordered within 10 days of adding the
                          seal to the delay of the repair list. Repairs must be
                          completed as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days
                          after receipt of parts, unless a compressor station shutdown
                          is required, in which case comply with Section II.J.1.e.(iii).

                 II.J.1.e.(v)     Reserved.

           II.J.1.f. Recordkeeping.

                 II.J.1.f.(i)     Owners or operators must maintain the following
                          records related to the requirements in Part B, Section II.J.




                                                                                        185
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         for at least five (5) years and make records available to the
                         Division upon request:

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(A) Reserved.

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(B) Reserved.

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(C) Reserved.

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(D) Reserved.

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(E) Reserved.

                         II.J.1.f.(i)(F) Records of volumetric flow rate measurements
                                 for wet and dry seal systems, including dates of initial
                                 and subsequent measurements, measured rates,
                                 repairs made following exceedances, identification of
                                 each seal placed on delay of repair and explanation
                                 for the delay, repair follow-up volumetric flow rate
                                 measurement results, and a description of the method
                                 used and the results of the volumetric flow rate
                                 measurement or emissions screening, as applicable.

           II.J.1.g. Annual Reporting.

                 II.J.1.g.(i)    Beginning June 30, 2028, and by June 30 each year
                         thereafter, owners or operators must submit annual reports
                         for the previous calendar year, in a Division-approved
                         format. For centrifugal compressors subject to 40 CFR Part
                         60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 60,
                         Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025), the first annual report must
                         be submitted by June 30 of the year following the date EPA
                         approves Colorado’s 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural
                         Gas Facilities, or June 30, 2028, whichever is later.

                 II.J.1.g.(ii)   Owners or operators operating centrifugal
                         compressors must include the following in their annual
                         reports:


                                                                                        186
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.J.1.g.(ii)(A) Identification of each centrifugal compressor.

                       II.J.1.g.(ii)(B) For each deviation that occurred during the
                              reporting period, the date and time the deviation
                              began, its duration in hours, and a description of the
                              deviation. If no deviations occurred, provide a
                              statement confirming no deviations occurred during
                              the reporting period.

                              II.J.1.g.(ii)(B)(1)     “Deviation”, for purposes of
                                      Section II.J., means any instance in which an
                                      owner or operator of a source subject to
                                      Sections II.J.1.a. through II.J.1.e. fails to: meet
                                      any requirement or obligation established by
                                      Sections II.J.1. including, but not limited to, any
                                      operating limit or work practice standard; meet
                                      any term or condition that is adopted to
                                      implement an applicable requirement in
                                      Section II.J.1; and/or meet any operating limit,
                                      or work practice standard of Section II.J.1.
                                      during startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

                       II.J.1.g.(ii)(C) The cumulative number of hours of operation
                              since initial startup, since the applicable compliance
                              date in Section II.J.1., or since the last volumetric flow
                              rate measurement conducted pursuant to Sections
                              II.J.1.a. or II.J.1.b., or since an inspection for leaks
                              pursuant to Section II.J.1.c.(i)(C), as applicable, which
                              have elapsed prior to conducting your volumetric flow
                              rate measurement pursuant to Section II.J.1.a. or
                              II.J.1.b. or inspection for leaks pursuant to Section
                              II.J.1.c.(i)(C).




                                                                                         187
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(D) A description of the method used and the
                                   results of any volumetric emissions measurement or
                                   inspection for leaks pursuant to Section II.J.1.c.(i)(C),
                                   as applicable.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(E) Reserved.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(F) Reserved.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(G) Reserved.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(H) Reserved.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(I) The number and type of seals placed on delay
                                   of repair, along with an explanation for each delay.

                            II.J.1.g.(ii)(J) The date(s) of any planned shutdown(s) during
                                   the reporting period if they relate to seals placed on
                                   delay of repair as of the date of the planned
                                   shutdown(s).

              II.J.1.h. As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
                      recordkeeping provisions described in Section II.J.1.i., the owner
                      or operator may comply with the requirements for centrifugal
                      compressor emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
                      reporting requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb
                      (December 3, 2025).

II.K.   Reciprocating Compressors

        II.K.1. Beginning January 1, 2027, owners or operators of reciprocating
              compressors in the crude oil and natural gas source category must begin
              to implement one of the methane emissions requirement options specified
              in Sections II.K.1.a. through II.K.1.d., unless subject to the reciprocating
              compressor requirements in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (December
              3, 2025). Beginning six (6) months after EPA approves Colorado’s 111(d)
              Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities, these provisions apply to
              reciprocating compressors subject to 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO


                                                                                          188
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           (July 31, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025).
           These provisions do not apply to reciprocating compressors located at a
           well production facility, unless the well production facility is classified as a
           centralized well production facility, pursuant to Section II.A.5. of this Part
           B.

           II.K.1.a. Control of emissions.

                  II.K.1.a.(i)   If volumetric flow rate, measured according to Section
                          II.K.1.b., from each reciprocating compressor cylinder rod
                          packing exceeds 2 scfm per cylinder, the owner or operator
                          must complete repair or replacement in accordance with
                          Section II.K.1.c. If the individual cylinders are manifolded to
                          a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate
                          threshold that triggers Section II.K.1.c. repair or replacement
                          requirements is 2 scfm multiplied by the number of
                          compression cylinders connected to the vent.

                          II.K.1.a.(i)(A) Initial volumetric flow rate measurements must
                                 be conducted on or before 8,760 hours of operation
                                 after last rod packing replacement, on or before 8,760
                                 hours of operation after the applicable compliance
                                 date in Section II.K.1., or on or before 8,760 hours of
                                 operation after compressor startup, whichever date is
                                 later.

                          II.K.1.a.(i)(B) Subsequent measurements must be conducted
                                 on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the date of
                                 the previous measurement which demonstrates the
                                 applicable volumetric flow rate per cylinder meets the
                                 applicable volumetric flow rate in Section II.K.1.a.(i)
                                 or, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the last
                                 rod packing replacement, whichever date is later.




                                                                                        189
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.K.1.a.(ii)   As an alternative to the volumetric flow rate
                         requirements in Section II.K.1.a.(i), owners or operators may
                         instead comply with one of the options in Sections
                         II.K.1.a.(ii)(A), II.K.1.a.(ii)(B), or II.K.1.a.(ii)(C).

                         II.K.1.a.(ii)(A) Route emissions from the reciprocating
                                 compressor rod packing using a rod packing
                                 emissions collection system to a process;

                         II.K.1.a.(ii)(B) Route emissions from each rod packing
                                 emissions collection system to a control device that
                                 achieves at least 95% methane reduction; or

                         II.K.1.a.(ii)(C) Replace rod packing on or before 8,760 hours
                                 of operation after the applicable compliance date in
                                 Section II.K.1., on or before 8,760 hours of operation
                                 after the previous flow rate measurement, or on or
                                 before 8,760 hours of operation after the date of the
                                 most recent rod packing replacement, whichever is
                                 later.

                         II.K.1.a.(ii)(D) Reserved.

           II.K.1.b. Volumetric flow rate measurement.

                 II.K.1.b.(i)    If complying with the volumetric flow rate
                         requirements in Section II.K.1.a.(i), owners or operators of
                         reciprocating compressors equipped with an open-ended
                         vent line in operating or standby pressurized mode must
                         determine the volumetric flow rate from the open-ended line
                         using any of the methods in Sections II.K.1.b.(i)(A) through
                         II.K.1.b.(i)(D).

                         II.K.1.b.(i)(A) A temporary or permanent flow meter that
                                 meets the requirement in EPA Method 2D (August 3,




                                                                                            190
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 2017) and is calibrated on an annual basis according
                                 to the requirements in Method 2D.

                         II.K.1.b.(i)(B) A high-volume sampler designed to capture the
                                 entirety of the emissions from the applicable vent and
                                 measure the methane concentrations being emitted
                                 as well as the total volumetric flow at standard
                                 conditions according to methods in 40 CFR Part 60,
                                 Subpart OOOOb, 60.5386b(c) (December 3, 2025).

                         II.K.1.b.(i)(C) Inspect the compressor rod packing for
                                 emissions during an inspection conducted pursuant to
                                 Sections II.E. or II.I.2. If any emissions are detected
                                 using an infra-red camera or OGI, emissions are
                                 detected by other Division approved instrument based
                                 monitoring method or program exceeding the leak
                                 detection identification requiring repair threshold
                                 established in the approval, or emissions detected
                                 greater than 500 ppmv using EPA Method 21 (August
                                 3, 2017), the owner or operator must conduct a
                                 volumetric flow rate measurement in accordance with
                                 Sections II.K.1.b.(i)(A), II.K.1.b.(i)(B), II.K.1.b.(i)(D),
                                 and II.K.1.b.(iii). If no emissions are detected during
                                 the Section II.E. or II.I.2. inspection, the owner or
                                 operator may assume the volumetric flow rate is zero.

                         II.K.1.b.(i)(D) As an alternative to a high-volume sampler,
                                 you may use any other method that has been
                                 validated in accordance with the procedures specified
                                 in EPA Method 301 (October 7, 2020), subject to EPA
                                 approval.

                 II.K.1.b.(ii)   If complying with Section II.K.1.a.(i), owners or
                         operators of reciprocating compressors not equipped with an


                                                                                           191
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         open-ended vent line in operating or standby pressurized
                         mode must

                         II.K.1.b.(ii)(A) Use the methods described in Section II.E. or
                                  II.I.2. to conduct leak detection of emissions from the
                                  rod packing case into an open distance piece, or, for
                                  compressors with a closed distance piece, conduct
                                  annual leak detection of emissions from the rod
                                  packing vent, distance piece vent, compressor crank
                                  case breather cap, or other vent emitting gas from the
                                  rod packing.

                         II.K.1.b.(ii)(B) Measure emissions found in Section
                                  II.K.1.b.(ii)(A) using a meter or high-volume sampler
                                  according to methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart
                                  OOOOb, 60.5386b(b) or (c) (December 3, 2025).

                         II.K.1.b.(ii)(C) As an alternative to a high-volume sampler,
                                  you may use any other method that has been
                                  validated in accordance with the procedures specified
                                  in EPA Method 301 (October 7, 2020), subject to EPA
                                  approval.

                 II.K.1.b.(iii)   Measurements conducted on manifolded groups of
                         reciprocating compressors must be taken at a single point in
                         the manifold downstream of all compressor vent inputs and,
                         if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor
                         emission sources. Measurements must be taken in
                         accordance with the methods in Sections II.K.1.b.(i) or
                         II.K.1.b.(ii).

           II.K.1.c. Repair or replacement requirements.

                 II.K.1.c.(i)     Except as specified in Section II.K.1.c.(iii), the rod
                         packing must be repaired or replaced within ninety (90) days



                                                                                           192
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         after the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that
                         exceeded 2 scfm per cylinder.

                 II.K.1.c.(ii)    A follow-up volumetric flow rate measurement must
                         be conducted within fifteen (15) operating days after the
                         repair or replacement to document that the rate has been
                         reduced to less than 2 scfm per cylinder.

                 II.K.1.c.(iii)   If repair or replacement is technically infeasible, would
                         require a vent blowdown, a compressor station shutdown, or
                         would be unsafe to repair during operation of the unit, the
                         owner or operator may delay repair or replacement. Repair
                         must be completed during the next scheduled compressor
                         station shutdown for maintenance, after a scheduled vent
                         blowdown, or within two (2) years after the volumetric
                         emissions measurement that exceeded 2 scfm per cylinder,
                         whichever is earliest. A vent blowdown is the opening of one
                         or more blowdown valves to depressurize major production
                         and processing equipment, other than a storage vessel.

                 II.K.1.c.(iv)    If repair requires replacement of the rod packing or a
                         part but the required parts are unavailable despite prior
                         stocking, parts must be ordered within 10 days of adding the
                         compressor to the delay of repair list. Repairs must be
                         completed as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days
                         after receipt of parts, unless a compressor station shutdown
                         is required, in which case comply with Section II.K.1.c.(iii).

                 II.K.1.c.(v)     Reserved.

                 II.K.1.c.(vi)    Reserved.

                 II.K.1.c.(vii) Reserved.

           II.K.1.d. Recordkeeping.




                                                                                       193
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.K.1.d.(i)   Owners or operators must maintain the following
                         records related to the requirements in Section II.K for at least
                         five (5) years and make records available to the Division
                         upon request.

                         II.K.1.d.(i)(A) The cumulative hours of operation since the
                                previous rod packing replacement conducted
                                pursuant to Section II.K.1.a.(ii), since initial startup,
                                since the compliance deadline in Section II.K.1., or
                                since the date of the previous volumetric flow rate
                                measurement, as applicable; or, a statement that
                                emissions from the rod packing are being routed to a
                                process;

                         II.K.1.d.(i)(B) The date of each rod packing repair or
                                replacement, or date of installation of a rod packing
                                emissions collection system;

                         II.K.1.d.(i)(C) Records of volumetric flow rate measurements,
                                including dates of initial and subsequent
                                measurements, measured rates, repairs made
                                following exceedances, identification of each
                                compressor placed on delay of repair and explanation
                                for the delay, repair follow-up volumetric flow rate
                                measurement results, and a description of the method
                                used and the results of the volumetric flow rate
                                measurement or emissions screening, as applicable;

                         II.K.1.d.(i)(D) Reserved.

                         II.K.1.d.(i)(E) Reserved.

           II.K.1.e. Annual Reporting.

                 II.K.1.e.(i)   Beginning June 30, 2028, and by June 30 each year
                         thereafter, owners or operators must submit annual reports



                                                                                        194
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         for the previous calendar year, in a Division-approved
                         format. For reciprocating compressors subject to 40 CFR
                         Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 60,
                         Subpart OOOOa (July 31, 2025), the first annual report must
                         be submitted by June 30 of the year following the date EPA
                         approves Colorado’s 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural
                         Gas Facilities, or June 30, 2028, whichever is later.

                 II.K.1.e.(ii)   Owners or operators operating reciprocating
                         compressors must include the following in their annual
                         reports, as applicable:

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(A) Identification of each reciprocating compressor.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(B) The cumulative number of hours of operation
                                 since initial startup, since the applicable compliance
                                 date in Section II.K.1., since the previous volumetric
                                 flow rate measurement conducted pursuant to Section
                                 II.K.1.a.(i), since an inspection for leaks pursuant to
                                 II.K.1.b.(i)(C), or since the previous reciprocating
                                 compressor rod packing replacement, as applicable,
                                 which have elapsed prior to conducting the volumetric
                                 flow rate measurement pursuant to Section II.K.1.a.(i)
                                 or inspection for leaks pursuant to Section
                                 II.K.1.b.(i)(C). Alternatively, a statement that
                                 emissions from the rod packing are being routed to a
                                 process or control device.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(C) For each deviation that occurred during the
                                 reporting period, the date and time the deviation
                                 began, its duration, and a description of the deviation.
                                 If no deviations occurred, provide a statement
                                 confirming no deviations occurred during the reporting
                                 period.


                                                                                        195
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                II.K.1.e.(ii)(C)(1)   “Deviation”, for purposes of
                                        Section II.K., means any instance in which an
                                        owner or operator of a source subject to
                                        Sections II.K.1.a. through II.K.1.c. fails to: meet
                                        any requirement or obligation established by
                                        Section II.K.1. including, but not limited to, any
                                        operating limit or work practice standard; meet
                                        any term or condition that is adopted to
                                        implement an applicable requirement in
                                        Section II.K.1; and/or meet any operating limit,
                                        or work practice standard of Section II.K.1.
                                        during startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(D) The method and results of the most recent
                                inspection for leaks pursuant to Section II.K.1.b.(i)(C)
                                or flow rate measurement.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(E) Reserved.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(F) Number and type of rod packing
                                replacements/repairs on delay of repair and
                                explanation for each delay of repair.

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(G)      Date of planned shutdown(s) that
                                occurred during the reporting period if there are any
                                rod packing replacements/repairs that remain on
                                delay of repair as of the date of the planned
                                shutdown(s).

                         II.K.1.e.(ii)(H) Reserved.

           II.K.1.f. As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
                   recordkeeping provisions described in Section II.K.1.d, the owner
                   or operator may comply with the requirements for reciprocating
                   compressor emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and



                                                                                       196
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       reporting requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb
                       (December 3, 2025).

III.   Natural Gas-Actuated Pneumatic Controllers and Pneumatic Pumps
Associated with Oil and Gas Operations
III.A. Applicability

This section applies to pneumatic controllers that are actuated by natural gas, and
located at, or upstream of natural gas processing plants (upstream activities include: oil
and gas exploration and production operations and natural gas compressor stations).

III.B. Definitions

       III.B.1. (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities) “Access to
              electrical power” means commercial line power is available onsite, with
              sufficient capacity to support the required power loading of onsite
              equipment, and which provides reliable and consistent power.

       III.B.2. “Affected Operations” means pneumatic controllers that are actuated by
              natural gas, and located at, or upstream of natural gas processing plants
              (upstream activities include: oil and gas exploration and production
              operations and natural gas compressor stations).

       III.B.3. (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities) “Closed
              vent system” means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that
              is composed of hard-piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary,
              flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of
              equipment to a control device or back to a process.

       III.B.4. “Continuous Bleed” means a continuous bleed rate of natural gas from a
              pneumatic controller that is designed to bleed natural gas continuously.

       III.B.5. “Custody Transfer” means the transfer of crude oil or natural gas after
              processing and/or treatment in the producing operations or from storage
              vessels or automatic transfer facilities or other such equipment, including
              product loading racks, to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.




                                                                                          197
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.B.6. (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
            “Deviation”, for purposes of this Section III., means any instance in which
            an owner or operator of a source subject to Sections III.C.5. or III.G. fails
            to:

            III.B.6.a.     Meet any requirement or obligation established by Sections
                     III.C.5. or III.G. including, but not limited to, any emission limit,
                     operating limit, or work practice standard;

            III.B.6.b.     Meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an
                     applicable requirement in Sections III.C.5. or III.G. and that is
                     included in the operating permit for any applicable source required
                     to obtain such a permit; and/or

            III.B.6.c.     Meet any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice
                     standard of Sections III.C.5. or III.G. during startup, shutdown, or
                     malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted
                     by Sections III.C.5. or III.G..

     III.B.7. (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
            “Emergency shutdown device” means a device which functions exclusively
            to protect personnel and/or prevent physical damage to equipment by
            shutting down equipment or gas flow during unsafe conditions resulting
            from an unexpected event, such as a pipe break or fire. For the purposes
            of Section III.C.5., an emergency shutdown device is not used for routine
            control of operating conditions.

     III.B.8. (State Only) “Enhanced Response” means to return a pneumatic controller
            to proper operation and includes but is not limited to, cleaning, adjusting,
            and repairing leaking gaskets, and seals; tuning to operate over a broader
            range of proportional band; and eliminating unnecessary valve positioners.

     III.B.9. “High-Bleed Pneumatic Controller” means a continuous bleed pneumatic
            controller that is designed to have a continuous bleed rate that emits in




                                                                                             198
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            excess of 6 standard cubic feet per hour (scfh) of natural gas to the
            atmosphere.

     III.B.10.     (State Only) “Intermittent pneumatic controller” means a pneumatic
            controller that is not designed to have a continuous bleed rate, but is
            designed to only release natural gas to the atmosphere as part of the
            actuation cycle.

     III.B.11.     “Low-Bleed Pneumatic controller” means a continuous bleed
            pneumatic controller that is designed to have a continuous bleed rate that
            emits less than or equal to 6 scfh of natural gas to the atmosphere.

     III.B.12.     (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
            “Natural gas-driven pneumatic controller” means an automated instrument
            powered by natural gas used for maintaining a process parameter such as
            liquid level, pressure, delta-pressure and temperature.

     III.B.13      “Natural Gas Processing Plant” means any processing site
            engaged in the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, fractionation
            of mixed natural gas liquids to natural gas products, or both. A Joule-
            Thompson valve, a dew point depression valve, or an isolated or
            standalone Joule-Thompson skid is not a natural gas processing plant.

     III.B.14.     “No-Bleed Pneumatic Controller” means any pneumatic controller
            that is not using hydrocarbon gas as the valve’s actuating gas.

     III.B.15.     “Non-emitting Controller” means a device that monitors a process
            parameter such as liquid level, pressure or temperature and sends a
            signal to a control valve in order to control the process parameter and
            does not emit natural gas to the atmosphere. Examples of non-emitting
            controllers include but are not limited to: no-bleed pneumatic controllers,
            electric controllers, mechanical controllers and routed pneumatic
            controllers.

     III.B.16.     (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
            “Non-natural gas-driven pneumatic controller” means a pneumatic



                                                                                      199
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            controller that is actuated using other sources of power than pressurized
            natural gas; examples include pneumatic controllers actuated using
            nitrogen gas driven or instrument air.

     III.B.17.     “Pneumatic Controller” means an automated instrument that
            monitors a process parameter such as liquid level, pressure, or
            temperature and uses pressurized gas (which may be released to the
            atmosphere during normal operation) to send a signal to a control valve in
            order to control the process parameter. Controllers that do not utilize
            pressurized gas are not pneumatic controllers.

     III.B.18.     “Routed Pneumatic Controller” means a pneumatic controller that
            releases natural gas to a process, sales line or to a combustion device
            instead of directly to the atmosphere.

     III.B.19.     (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
            “Routed to a process” or “route to a process” means the emissions are
            conveyed via a closed vent system to any enclosed portion of a process
            that is operational where the emissions are predominantly recycled and/or
            consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function
            in the process and/or transformed by chemical reaction into the materials
            that are not regulated materials and/or incorporated into a product; and or
            recovered.

     III.B.20.     “Self-contained Pneumatic Controller” means a pneumatic
            controller that releases natural gas to a process or sales line instead of to
            the atmosphere.

            (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities) Beginning
            April 30, 2025, “Self-contained Pneumatic Controller” means a natural
            gas-driven pneumatic controller that releases gas into the downstream
            piping and not to the atmosphere, resulting in zero emissions.

     III.B.21.     “Wellhead” means the piping, casing, tubing and connected valves
            supporting or controlling the operation of an oil and/or natural gas well.



                                                                                         200
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             The wellhead does not include other process equipment at the wellhead
             site.

III.C. Pneumatic Controllers

Owners and operators of affected operations shall reduce emissions of volatile organic
compounds, unless specified as methane reductions in Section III.C.5., from natural
gas-driven pneumatic controllers associated with affected operations as follows:

      III.C.1. Continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour
             Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County and located from the
             wellhead to the natural gas processing plant or point of custody transfer to
             an oil pipeline:

             III.C.1.a.     All pneumatic controllers located in the 8-Hour Ozone
                      Control Area and placed in service on or after February 1, 2009,
                      must emit natural gas emissions in an amount equal to or less
                      than a low-bleed pneumatic controller, unless allowed pursuant to
                      Section III.C.1.f.

             III.C.1.b.     All high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in the 8-Hour
                      Ozone Control Area and in service prior to February 1, 2009 shall
                      be replaced or retrofit such that natural gas emissions are
                      reduced to an amount equal to or less than a low-bleed pneumatic
                      controller, by May 1, 2009, unless allowed pursuant to Section
                      III.C.1.f.

             III.C.1.c.     All pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld County
                      and placed in service on or after February 14, 2023, and not
                      already subject to Section III.C.3.a., must emit natural gas
                      emissions in an amount equal to or less than a low-bleed
                      pneumatic controller, unless allowed pursuant to Section III.C.1.f.

             III.C.1.d.     All high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld
                      County in service prior to February 14, 2023, and not already
                      subject to Section III.C.3.b. must be replaced or retrofit such that



                                                                                        201
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                    natural gas emissions are reduced to an amount equal to or less
                    than a low-bleed pneumatic controller, by May 1, 2023, unless
                    allowed pursuant to Section III.C.1.f.

           III.C.1.e.     Except as provided in Section III.C.1.e.(iv), the following
                    facilities must use only non-emitting controllers:

                  III.C.1.e.(i)    Well production facilities that commence operations
                          on or after February 14, 2023;

                  III.C.1.e.(ii)   Well production facilities that receive production from
                          a well that first begins production or is recompleted or
                          refractured on or after February 14, 2023; and

                  III.C.1.e.(iii) Natural gas compressor stations that commence
                          operations or increase compression horsepower on or after
                          February 14, 2023.

                  III.C.1.e.(iv) Pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas to the
                          atmosphere meeting any of the following conditions are not
                          subject to the requirements in Section III.C.1.e.

                          III.C.1.e.(iv)(A)       Pneumatic controllers necessary for a
                                   safety or process purpose that cannot otherwise be
                                   met without emitting natural gas. Owners or operators
                                   must submit justification to the Division for the
                                   emitting pneumatic controller(s) to be installed forty-
                                   five (45) days prior to installation.

                          III.C.1.e.(iv)(B)       Pneumatic controllers that emit natural
                                   gas located on temporary or portable equipment that
                                   is used for well abandonment activities or used prior
                                   to or through the end of flowback.

                          III.C.1.e.(iv)(C)       Pneumatic controllers on temporary or
                                   portable equipment that is in use and onsite for sixty
                                   (60) days or less. This does not apply to use on


                                                                                        202
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                   temporary or portable equipment used to temporarily
                                   increase throughput capacity of a facility. Owners or
                                   operators must submit justification to the Division for
                                   continued use beyond sixty (60) days at least fourteen
                                   (14) days before the 60-day period expires.

                           III.C.1.e.(iv)(D)     Pneumatic controllers that emit natural
                                   gas to the atmosphere that are used as emergency
                                   shutdown devices or for artificial lift control located on
                                   a wellhead that is greater than one quarter mile from
                                   the associated well production facility or that is not
                                   located on the same surface disturbance as the
                                   associated production facility.

                           III.C.1.e.(iv)(E)     Any pneumatic controller that emits
                                   natural gas pursuant to Sections III.C.1.e.(iv)(A)
                                   through (D) must be tagged, which will indicate that
                                   the controller may emit natural gas.

           III.C.1.f. All high-bleed pneumatic controllers that remain in service due to
                   safety and/or process purposes must comply with Sections III.D.
                   and III.E.

                  III.C.1.f.(i)    For high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in the 8-
                           Hour Ozone Control Area and in service prior to February 1,
                           2009, the owner/operator must submit justification for high-
                           bleed pneumatic controllers to remain in service due to
                           safety and /or process purposes by March 1, 2009.

                  III.C.1.f.(ii)   For high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in the 8-
                           Hour Ozone Control Area and placed in service on or after
                           February 1, 2009, the owner/operator must submit
                           justification for high-bleed pneumatic controllers to be
                           installed due to safety and /or process purposes thirty (30)
                           days prior to installation.


                                                                                            203
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        III.C.1.f.(iii)   For high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in
                                 northern Weld County in service prior to February 14, 2023,
                                 the owner/operator must submit justification for high-bleed
                                 pneumatic controllers to remain in service due to safety and
                                 /or process purposes by March 1, 2023.

                        III.C.1.f.(iv)    For high-bleed pneumatic controllers located in
                                 northern Weld County and placed in service on or after
                                 February 14, 2023, the owner/operator must submit
                                 justification for high-bleed pneumatic controllers to be
                                 installed due to safety and /or process purposes thirty (30)
                                 days prior to installation.

     III.C.2.           Continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers in the
                8-Hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County and located at a
                natural gas processing plant:

                III.C.2.a.       All pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
                         placed in service on or after January 1, 2018, must have a natural
                         gas bleed rate of zero, unless allowed pursuant to Section
                         III.C.2.e.

                III.C.2.b.       All pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
                         with a bleed rate greater than zero in service prior to January 1,
                         2018, must be replaced or retrofit such that the pneumatic
                         controller has a natural gas bleed rate of zero by May 1, 2018,
                         unless allowed pursuant to Section III.C.2.e.

                III.C.2.c.       All pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld County
                         and placed in service on or after February 14, 2023, must have a
                         natural gas bleed rate of zero, unless allowed pursuant to Section
                         III.C.2.e.

                III.C.2.d.       All pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld County
                         with a bleed rate greater than zero in service prior to February 14,



                                                                                            204
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                    2023, must be replaced or retrofit such that the pneumatic
                    controller has a natural gas bleed rate of zero by January 1, 2024,
                    unless allowed pursuant to Section III.C.2.e.

           III.C.2.e.     All pneumatic controllers with a natural gas bleed rate
                    greater than zero that remain in service due to safety and/or
                    process purposes must comply with Sections III.D. and III.E.

                  III.C.2.e.(i)    For pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone
                          Control Area with a natural gas bleed rate greater than zero
                          in service prior to January 1, 2018, the owner or operator
                          must submit justification for pneumatic controllers to remain
                          in service due to safety and /or process purposes by May 1,
                          2018.

                  III.C.2.e.(ii)   For pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone
                          Control Area with a natural gas bleed rate greater than zero
                          placed in service on or after January 1, 2018, the owner or
                          operator must submit justification for pneumatic controllers to
                          be installed due to safety and /or process purposes thirty
                          (30) days prior to installation.

                  III.C.2.e.(iii) For pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld
                          County with a natural gas bleed rate greater than zero in
                          service prior to February 14, 2023, the owner or operator
                          must submit justification for pneumatic controllers to remain
                          in service due to safety and /or process purposes by March
                          1, 2023.

                  III.C.2.e.(iv) For pneumatic controllers located in northern Weld
                          County with a natural gas bleed rate greater than zero
                          placed in service on or after February 14, 2023, the owner or
                          operator must submit justification for pneumatic controllers to
                          be installed due to safety and /or process purposes thirty
                          (30) days prior to installation.


                                                                                       205
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.C.3.           State Only) Statewide:

                III.C.3.a.      Owners or operators of all pneumatic controllers placed in
                         service on or after May 1, 2014, except as otherwise provided in
                         Section III.C.4., must

                        III.C.3.a.(i)    Utilize no-bleed pneumatic controllers where on-site
                                electrical grid power is being used and use of a no-bleed
                                pneumatic controller is technically and economically feasible.

                        III.C.3.a.(ii)   If on-site electrical grid power is not being used or a
                                no-bleed pneumatic controller is not technically and
                                economically feasible, utilize pneumatic controllers that emit
                                natural gas emissions in an amount equal to or less than a
                                low-bleed pneumatic controller, unless allowed pursuant to
                                Section III.C.3.c.

                        III.C.3.a.(iii) For purposes of Section III.C.3.a.(ii), instead of a low-
                                bleed pneumatic controller, owners or operators may utilize a
                                natural gas-driven intermittent pneumatic controller.

                        III.C.3.a.(iv) Utilizing self-contained pneumatic controllers satisfies
                                Section III.C.3.a.(i).

                III.C.3.b.      All high-bleed pneumatic controllers in service prior to May
                         1, 2014, must be replaced or retrofitted by May 1, 2015, such that
                         natural gas emissions are reduced to an amount equal to or less
                         than a low-bleed pneumatic controller, unless allowed pursuant to
                         Section III.C.3.c.

                III.C.3.c.      All high-bleed pneumatic controllers that must remain in
                         service due to safety and/or process purposes must comply with
                         Sections III.D. and III.E.

                        III.C.3.c.(i)    For high-bleed pneumatic controllers in service prior
                                to May 1, 2014, the owner/operator must submit justification




                                                                                              206
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          for high-bleed pneumatic controllers to remain in service due
                          to safety and/or process purposes by March 1, 2015.

                  III.C.3.c.(ii)   For high-bleed pneumatic controllers placed in service
                          on or after May 1, 2014, the owner/operator must submit
                          justification for high-bleed pneumatic controllers to be
                          installed due to safety and/or process purposes thirty (30)
                          days prior to installation.

           III.C.3.d.     Continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                    located at natural gas-processing plants that are not subject to the
                    requirements of Section III.C.2.

                  III.C.3.d.(i)    All pneumatic controllers placed in service on or after
                          January 1, 2023, must have a natural gas bleed rate of zero,
                          unless allowed pursuant to Section III.C.3.a.(iii).

                  III.C.3.d.(ii)   All pneumatic controllers with a bleed rate greater
                          than zero in service prior to January 1, 2023, must be
                          replaced or retrofit such that the pneumatic controller has a
                          natural gas bleed rate of zero by January 1, 2024, unless
                          allowed pursuant to Section III.C.3.a.(iii).

                  III.C.3.d.(iii) All pneumatic controllers with a natural gas bleed rate
                          greater than zero that remain in service due to safety and/or
                          process purposes must comply with Sections III.D. and III.E.

                          III.C.3.d.(iii)(A)     For pneumatic controllers with a natural
                                   gas bleed rate greater than zero in service prior to
                                   January 1, 2023, the owner or operator must submit
                                   justification for pneumatic controllers to remain in
                                   service due to safety and /or process purposes by
                                   March 1, 2023.

                          III.C.3.d.(iii)(B)     For pneumatic controllers with a natural
                                   gas bleed rate greater than zero placed in service on



                                                                                          207
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                         or after January 1, 2023, the owner or operator must
                                         submit justification for pneumatic controllers to be
                                         installed due to safety and /or process purposes thirty
                                         (30) days prior to installation.

     III.C.4.           (State Only) Non-Emitting Controller Requirements for Well
                Production Facilities and Natural Gas Compressor Stations

                III.C.4.a.      Except as provided in Section III.C.4.e.(i), the following
                         facilities must use only non-emitting controllers:

                        III.C.4.a.(i)    Well production facilities that commence operations
                                on or after May 1, 2021;

                        III.C.4.a.(ii)   Well production facilities that receive production from
                                a well that first begins production or is recompleted or
                                refractured on or after May 1, 2021; and

                        III.C.4.a.(iii) Natural gas compressor stations that commence
                                operations or increase compression horsepower on or after
                                May 1, 2021.

                III.C.4.b.      Each well production facility and natural gas compressor
                         station with non-emitting controllers used to satisfy the
                         requirements of Sections III.C.4.a.(i) through III.C.4.a.(iii) must
                         contain on-site signage indicating that the facility utilizes non-
                         emitting controllers to satisfy the requirements of this Section
                         III.C.4. This Section III.C.4.b does not apply to operator’s subject
                         to Section III.C.4.d.(vi).

                III.C.4.c.      Company-Wide Non-Emitting Controller Program for Well
                         Production Facilities That Commenced Operation before May 1,
                         2021

                        III.C.4.c.(i)    Except as provided for in Section III.C.4.c.(iv), owners
                                or operators of well production facilities that commenced
                                operation before May 1, 2021, must phase out pneumatic


                                                                                                208
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         controllers that emit natural gas to the atmosphere in
                         accordance with Table 1.

                 III.C.4.c.(ii)   Except as provided for in Section III.C.4.c.(iv), owners
                         or operators of well production facilities that commenced
                         operations before May 1, 2021, must:

                         III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)        Determine Historic Facility Production
                                  for each existing well production facility that
                                  commenced operation before May 1, 2021.

                                  III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(1)   Historic Facility Production at
                                          each existing well production facility which first
                                          began production during 2018 or earlier must
                                          be based on total liquids production (summing
                                          total barrels of oil and water produced through
                                          the well production facility) for the calendar
                                          year 2019.

                                  III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(2)   Notwithstanding Section
                                          III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(1), for any well production
                                          facility to which a well first began production
                                          during 2019, 2020 or by May 1, 2021, historic
                                          facility production must be based on the
                                          production for the first twelve (12) months
                                          beginning with the date of first production of
                                          the latest well to begin production prior to May
                                          1, 2021.

                                  III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(3)   Notwithstanding Sections
                                          III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(1) and (2), for any well
                                          production facility to which a well first began
                                          production during 2019, 2020, or by May 1,
                                          2021, if twelve (12) months since date of first
                                          production of the latest well to begin production


                                                                                           209
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                       has not passed as of May 1, 2021, then the
                                       owner or operator must use an estimate of the
                                       anticipated yearly production for the facility
                                       based on industry accepted calculation
                                       methodologies.

                       III.C.4.c.(ii)(B)       Calculate the Total Historic Production
                               for the owner or operator by summing the Historic
                               Facility Production for all existing well production
                               facilities that commenced operation before May 1,
                               2021.

                       III.C.4.c.(ii)(C)       Determine the percentage of total liquids
                               production for each existing facility (the Facility
                               Percent Production) by dividing the Historic Facility
                               Production for that facility by the Total Historic
                               Production.

                       III.C.4.c.(ii)(D)       Determine the Historic Non-Emitting
                               Facility Percent Production.

                               III.C.4.c.(ii)(D)(1)   If the well production facility,
                                       including all wellheads flowing to the well
                                       production facility, uses only non-emitting
                                       controllers, then the Facility Percent Production
                                       should be designated as Historic Non-Emitting
                                       Facility Percent Production.

                               III.C.4.c.(ii)(D)(2)   In making the determination in
                                       Section III.C.4.c.(ii)(D)(1), pneumatic
                                       controllers that meet the conditions in Section
                                       III.C.4.e.(i) need not be considered.

                       III.C.4.c.(ii)(E)       Determine the Total Historic Non-
                               Emitting Facility Percent Production percentage by



                                                                                         210
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 summing the Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent
                                 Production for all well production facilities that
                                 commenced operation prior to May 1, 2021. The Total
                                 Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production
                                 determines an owner or operators’ May 1, 2022 and
                                 May 1, 2023 Additional Required Non-Emitting Facility
                                 Percent Production, as set forth in Table 1.

                 III.C.4.c.(iii) Owners or operators must demonstrate compliance
                        with Table 1’s May 1, 2022 and May 1, 2023 Additional
                        Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production through
                        any combination of (1) retrofitting well production facilities to
                        utilize non-emitting controllers or (2) plugging and
                        abandoning an existing well production facility.

                 III.C.4.c.(iv) An owner or operator that demonstrates that its total
                        statewide oil and natural gas production averages 15 barrels
                        of oil equivalent or less per day per well is not subject to the
                        requirements of Sections III.C.4.c.(i) through (iii). To
                        calculate average statewide oil and natural gas production
                        per day per well, an owner or operator must sum all oil and
                        natural gas production for calendar year 2019 in barrels of oil
                        equivalent, divide by three hundred and sixty-five, and divide
                        by the number of wells the owner or operator operated
                        statewide that produced hydrocarbons in 2019.

                 III.C.4.c.(v)   If a well production facility for which production was
                        included in a calculation of achieving a Total Required Non-
                        Emitting Facility Percent Production target is sold or
                        transferred prior to May 1, 2023 and the selling or
                        transferring owner or operator plans to utilize the well
                        production facility to show compliance with Table 1, the
                        selling or transferring owner or operator (and the buyer or



                                                                                      211
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        transferee, as applicable) must submit to the Division an
                        acknowledgment or certification within 30 days following sale
                        or transfer, in a form acceptable to the Division, identifying
                        how the selling or transferring owner or operator will utilize
                        the well production facility to show compliance with Table 1.

                        In each submission of the updated Company-Wide Well
                        Production Facility Natural Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controller
                        Compliance Plan, the owner or operator will provide the date
                        (month and year) when a well production facility was
                        transferred since the last submission and whether or not the
                        well production facility contributed or will contribute towards
                        achieving the Total Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent
                        Production. An owner or operator that merges with or
                        acquires an owner or operator with a Company-Wide Well
                        Production Facility Natural Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controller
                        Compliance Plan must comply, despite the resulting
                        ownership or operatorship, with each Company-Wide Well
                        Production Facility Natural Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controller
                        Compliance Plan, as applicable, and as established on
                        September 1, 2021.

                 III.C.4.c.(vi) For each facility designated as contributing to Historic
                        Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production, the owner or
                        operator will place signage on-site by October 1, 2021
                        indicating that the facility utilizes non-emitting controllers to
                        satisfy the requirements of this Section III.C.4.c.




                                                                                       212
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission



                           TABLE 1*—Well Production Facilities

   Total      May 1, 2022 May 1, 2022             May 1,       May 1,           Total
 Historic      Additional        Maximum           2023         2023          Additional
   Non-         Required         Required                     Maximum         Required
                                                Additional
 Emitting         Non-                Non-                    Required    Non-Emitting
                                                 Required
  Facility      Emitting         Emitting                       Non-           Facility
                                                   Non-
 Percent         Facility            Facility                 Emitting         Percent
                                                 Emitting
Production       Percent             Percent                   Facility     Production
                                                  Facility
              Production        Production                     Percent        By May 1
                                                 Percent
                                                Production Production           2023

> 75 %             +5%                90%          +10%         96.5%           +15%

> 60-75 %          +5%                80%          +10%          90%            +15%

> 40-60 %         +10%                65%          +15%          75%            +25%

> 20-40 %         +15%                50%          +20%          65%            +35%

0-20 %            +15%                35%          +25%          55%            +40%

* Table 1 establishes minimum increases in the percentage of liquids produced (based
on historic non-emitting controller use) from non-emitting facilities. Owners or operators
do not need to go beyond the maximum required percentages set forth in Table 1,
although they may choose to do so.

              III.C.4.d.      Company-Wide Non-Emitting Controller Compliance
                       Program for Natural Gas Compressor Stations that Commenced
                       Operation Before May 1, 2021.

                     III.C.4.d.(i)     Owners or operators of natural gas compressor
                              stations that commenced operation before May 1, 2021,
                              must phase out pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas
                              to the atmosphere in accordance with Table 2.



                                                                                           213
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 III.C.4.d.(ii)   Owners or operators of natural gas compressor
                         stations that commenced operation before May 1, 2021,
                         must:

                         III.C.4.d.(ii)(A)      Determine Total Controller Count for all
                                  controllers at all of the owner or operator’s natural gas
                                  compressor stations that commenced operation
                                  before May 1, 2021. The Total Controller Count must
                                  include all pneumatic controllers and all non-emitting
                                  controllers, except that pneumatic controllers
                                  excluded under Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C)
                                  are not included in the Total Controller Count.

                         III.C.4.d.(ii)(B)      Determine which controllers in the Total
                                  Controller Count are non-emitting and sum the total
                                  number of non-emitting controllers and designate
                                  those as Total Historic Non-Emitting Controllers.

                 III.C.4.d.(ii)(C)       Determine the Total Historic Non-Emitting
                         Percent Controllers by dividing the Total Historic Non-
                         Emitting Controller Count by the Total Controller Count.

                 III.C.4.d.(iii) Owners or operators must demonstrate compliance
                         with Table 2’s May 1, 2022 and May 1, 2023 Additional
                         Required Percentage of Non-Emitting Controllers through
                         any combination of (1) retrofitting controllers at natural gas
                         compressor stations to utilize non-emitting controllers or (2)
                         permanently removing natural gas compressor stations from
                         service.

                 III.C.4.d.(iv) Pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas to
                         atmosphere at natural gas compressor stations with non-
                         emitting controllers must be tagged, which will indicate that
                         the controller may emit natural gas. The tags must
                         differentiate between pneumatic controllers that are exempt


                                                                                       214
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        under Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C) and pneumatic
                        controllers that emit natural gas to the atmosphere under the
                        company-wide plan. Tagging pursuant to this Section
                        III.C.4.d.(iv) must occur by May 1, 2022.

                 III.C.4.d.(v)   If a natural gas compressor station for which the
                        number of pneumatic controllers located at such compressor
                        station was included in a calculation of achieving a Total
                        Required Non-Emitting Percent Controllers target is sold or
                        transferred prior to May 1, 2023 and the selling or
                        transferring owner or operator plans to utilize the pneumatic
                        controllers at that natural gas compressor station to show
                        compliance with Table 2, the selling or transferring owner or
                        operator (and the buyer or transferee, as applicable) must
                        submit to the Division an acknowledgement or certification,
                        within 30 days following sale or transfer, in a form acceptable
                        to the Division, identifying how the selling or transferring
                        owner or operator will utilize the pneumatic controllers at that
                        natural gas compressor station to show compliance with
                        Table 2.

                        In each submission of the updated Company-Wide
                        Compressor Station Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plan,
                        the owner or operator will provide the date (month and year)
                        when the natural gas compressor station was transferred
                        since the last submission and whether or not the compressor
                        station contributed or will contribute towards achieving the
                        Total Required Non-Emitting Percent Controllers. An owner
                        or operator that merges with or acquires an owner or
                        operator with a Company-Wide Compressor Station
                        Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plan must comply, despite
                        the resulting ownership or operatorship, with each Company-
                        Wide Compressor Station Pneumatic Controller Compliance


                                                                                       215
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        Plan, as applicable, and as established on September 1,
                        2021.

                 III.C.4.d.(vi) This section applies to owners or operators of natural
                        gas compressor stations where all the owner or operator’s
                        active, operating natural gas compressor stations use only
                        non-emitting controllers (except that pneumatic controllers
                        that qualify for the exclusions set forth in Sections
                        III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C) are not required to be non-emitting
                        controllers).

                        III.C.4.d.(vi)(A)      No later than September 1, 2021, such
                                owners or operators may file a one-time notification
                                with the Division in lieu of the requirements in
                                Sections III.C.4.d.(i) through (iii) that:

                                III.C.4.d.(vi)(A)(1)   Lists each active, operating
                                        natural gas compressor station (including AIRS
                                        identification numbers and facility names) and
                                        that includes a certification by the company
                                        representative that supervised the
                                        development and submission of the notification
                                        that, based on information and belief formed
                                        after reasonable inquiry, each of its active,
                                        operating natural gas compressor stations
                                        uses only non-emitting controllers (except that
                                        pneumatic controllers that qualify for the
                                        exclusions set forth in Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A)
                                        through (C) are not required to be non-emitting
                                        controllers); and

                                III.C.4.d.(vi)(A)(2)   Lists each inactive, non-operating
                                        compressor station (including AIRS
                                        identification numbers and facility names) and


                                                                                        216
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                          that includes a certification by the company
                                          representative that supervised the
                                          development and submission of the notification
                                          that after May 1, 2021, such compressor
                                          stations have not and subsequently will not
                                          operate with pneumatic controllers that emit
                                          natural gas to the atmosphere, except
                                          pneumatic controllers that qualify for
                                          exclusions set forth in subject to Sections
                                          III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C).

                           III.C.4.d.(vi)(B)      If applicable, the notifications submitted
                                  under this section must list any pneumatic controllers
                                  that qualify for exclusions pursuant to Sections
                                  III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C) and identify the specific
                                  exemption applicable to each such pneumatic
                                  controller. Operators must tag any controller qualifying
                                  for the exclusions in Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through
                                  (C) by October 1, 2021.

                           III.C.4.d.(vi)(C)      The owner or operator must maintain a
                                  copy of the one-time notification required by Section
                                  III.C.4.d.(vi)(A) for five years.

                  TABLE 2* – Natural Gas Compressor Stations

                                                                                    Total
                May 1,         May 1,          May 1, 2023    May 1, 2023
   Total                                                                        Additional
                2022            2022           Additional       Maximum
 Historic                                                                       Required
              Additional     Maximum            Required        Required
Percentage                                                                     Percentage
              Required        Required         Percentage      Percentage
 of Non-                                                                           of Non-
              Percentage Percentage              of Non-         of Non-
 Emitting                                                                        Emitting
               of Non-         of Non-          Emitting        Emitting
Controllers                                                                    Controllers
               Emitting       Emitting         Controllers     Controllers
                                                                                By May 1,


                                                                                            217
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              Controllers Controllers                                                    2023




> 75 %        +10%             90%              +15%            100%             +25%

>60-75 %      +10%             85%              +20%            92%              +30%

>40-60 %      +10%             70%              +25%            75%              +35%

>20-40 %      +15%             50%              +25%            65%              +40%

0-20 %        +20%             35%              +25%            60%              +45%

* Table 2 establishes minimum additional percentages of non-emitting controllers
required by May 1, 2022 and May 1, 2023 based on a company’s historic percentage of
non-emitting controllers. Owners and operators need not go beyond the maximum
required percentages specified in Table 2, although they may choose to do so.

             III.C.4.e.      Pneumatic Controllers That Emit Natural Gas to the
                      Atmosphere Not Subject to Non-Emitting Controller Requirements
                      for Well Production Facilities and Natural Gas Compressor
                      Stations.

                     III.C.4.e.(i)   Pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas to the
                             atmosphere meeting any of the following conditions are not
                             subject to the requirements in Section III.C.4.a. and are not
                             required to be retrofit in order to count the facility or
                             controller as non-emitting for compliance with the company-
                             wide plans under Sections III.C.4.c. and III.C.4.d.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(A)       Pneumatic controllers necessary for a
                                     safety or process purpose that cannot otherwise be
                                     met without emitting natural gas.

                                     III.C.4.e.(i)(A)(1)   Owners or operators that seek to
                                            rely on this exemption for facilities listed in
                                            Sections III.C.4.a.(i) through (iii) must submit a


                                                                                                218
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      justification for the safety or process purposes
                                      to the Division for approval forty-five (45) days
                                      prior to installation of emitting device or retrofit
                                      of the facility. If the Division does not respond
                                      to the justification within forty-five (45) days
                                      after submission of the justification, the
                                      justification will be deemed approved.

                              III.C.4.e.(i)(A)(2)    Owners or operators that seek to
                                      rely on this exemption to maintain emitting
                                      controllers at facilities that are retrofit to meet
                                      requirements of Section III.C.4.c.(i) must
                                      submit a justification for the safety or process
                                      purposes to the Division for approval forty-five
                                      (45) days prior to retrofit of the facility. If the
                                      Division does not respond to the justification
                                      within forty-five (45) days after submission of
                                      the justification, the justification will be deemed
                                      approved.

                       III.C.4.e.(i)(B)       Pneumatic controllers that emit natural
                              gas located on temporary or portable equipment that
                              is used for well abandonment activities or used prior
                              to or through the end of flowback.

                       III.C.4.e.(i)(C)       Pneumatic controllers that emit natural
                              gas located on temporary or portable equipment
                              meeting the requirements of this Section
                              III.C.4.e.(i)(C).

                              III.C.4.e.(i)(C)(1)    Upon notice to the Division on a
                                      form developed by the Division, pneumatic
                                      controllers that emit natural gas other than
                                      those covered by Section III.C.4.e.(i)(B)


                                                                                            219
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    located on temporary or portable equipment
                                    that is in use and onsite for sixty (60) days or
                                    less. However, this exemption for temporary or
                                    portable equipment does not apply to
                                    pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas
                                    used on temporary or portable equipment to
                                    temporarily increase throughput capacity of a
                                    facility.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(C)(2)   An owner or operator must obtain
                                    written approval from the Division for continued
                                    use beyond 60 days of pneumatic controllers
                                    that emit natural gas under Section
                                    III.C.4.e.(i)(C). The owner or operator must
                                    submit the request for an extension to the
                                    Division at least fourteen (14) days before the
                                    60-day period expires. If the Division does not
                                    respond to the request before the 60-day
                                    period expires, the request will be deemed
                                    approved until such time as the Division may
                                    determine that the extension should be denied.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(C)(2)(a) To request such an exemption,
                                    the owner or operator must submit a plan for
                                    Division approval which (1) identifies the
                                    temporary or portable equipment and number
                                    and type of pneumatic controllers that emit
                                    natural gas, (2) identifies how long the owner
                                    or operator plans to keep the equipment on
                                    site, (3) explains the need for an extension,
                                    and (4) other information as reasonably
                                    required by the Division.



                                                                                    220
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              III.C.4.e.(i)(C)(2)(b) In explaining the need for an
                                      extension, the operator must clearly identify the
                                      basis for extension; the anticipated schedule
                                      for use of the temporary or portable equipment;
                                      and the steps taken to minimize the length of
                                      the requested extension.

                              III.C.4.e.(i)(C)(3)    The operator must inspect the
                                      pneumatic controllers using approved
                                      instrument monitoring method and AVO,
                                      consistent with Section II.E, at the same
                                      frequency as the associated well production
                                      facility or compressor station, and must comply
                                      with the repair, recordkeeping, and reporting
                                      provisions in Sections II.E.6 through 9.

                       III.C.4.e.(i)(D)      Pneumatic controllers that emit natural
                              gas to the atmosphere that are used as emergency
                              shutdown devices or for artificial lift control located on
                              a wellhead: (1) greater than one quarter mile from the
                              associated production facilities for well production
                              facilities that commenced operation on or after May 1,
                              2021; or (2) not located on the same surface
                              disturbance as the associated production facilities for
                              well production facilities that commenced operation
                              before May 1, 2021.

                              III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(1)    Owners or operators who seek to
                                      use a pneumatic controller at a qualifying
                                      wellhead at a facility listed in Sections
                                      III.C.4.a.(i) or (ii) that is not used as an
                                      emergency shutdown device or for artificial lift
                                      control must submit a justification for the use of



                                                                                     221
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    such a pneumatic controller to the Division for
                                    approval forty-five (45) days prior to installation
                                    of the emitting device or retrofit of the facility. If
                                    the Division does not respond to the
                                    justification within forty-five (45) days after
                                    submission of the justification, the justification
                                    will be deemed approved.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(2)   Owners or operators that seek to
                                    rely on this exemption to exclude emitting
                                    pneumatic controllers at a qualifying wellhead
                                    that are not used as an emergency shutdown
                                    device or for artificial lift control when
                                    determining their Total Historic Non-Emitting
                                    Facility Percent Production pursuant to Section
                                    III.C.4.c.(ii) must submit a justification to the
                                    Division for approval no later than July 1, 2021.
                                    If the Division does not respond to the
                                    justification by August 15, 2021, the justification
                                    will be deemed approved.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)   Operators that utilize the
                                    exemption in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D) must
                                    identify leaks from components using an
                                    approved instrument monitoring method and
                                    AVO, consistent with Section II.E, at the same
                                    frequency as the well production facility to
                                    which the well flows as set forth in Table 3 of
                                    Section II.E.4, or on a frequency no less than
                                    one time per year, whichever is greater, and
                                    must comply with the repair, recordkeeping,
                                    and reporting provisions in Sections II.E.6
                                    through 9. For well production facilities that


                                                                                      222
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    commenced operation before May 1, 2021 with
                                    wellheads utilizing this exemption, the
                                    requirement in this Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)
                                    must begin May 1, 2022.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a) An owner or operator that cannot
                                    reasonably access the wellhead site to conduct
                                    a monthly AIMM or AVO inspection due to
                                    circumstances beyond its control (including but
                                    not limited to the presence of crops, wildlife
                                    restrictions, or severe weather conditions) shall
                                    conduct an AVO or AIMM inspection, as
                                    applicable, within 14 days of the condition
                                    preventing inspection being resolved. Owners
                                    or operators that rely on this Section
                                    III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a) must maintain records
                                    pursuant to Section III.C.4.g.(vii) and report
                                    pursuant Section III.C.4.g.(viii).

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(b) Operators may use drone-
                                    mounted infra-red cameras that ensure line of
                                    sight and appropriate distance from the drone
                                    to all wellhead equipment and components to
                                    conduct the inspections required under Section
                                    III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3). Operators must develop their
                                    own methodology before using OGI camera-
                                    equipped aerial drones and make that
                                    methodology available to the Division upon
                                    request.

                             III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(4)   If a wellhead has on-site
                                    electrical grid power to operate an electric
                                    controller, then operators may not utilize the



                                                                                     223
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                          exemption in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D) for any
                                          pneumatic controller at the wellhead for which
                                          it is technically feasible to utilize an electric
                                          controller.

                                 III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(5)     Operators may not utilize the
                                          exemption in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D) where
                                          equipment with pneumatic controllers other
                                          than the wellhead is located at the wellhead
                                          site.

                         III.C.4.e.(ii)   By October 1, 2021, each pneumatic controller
                                 at a well production facility that emits natural gas
                                 pursuant to Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (D) must
                                 be tagged, which will indicate that the controller may
                                 emit natural gas.

                         III.C.4.e.(iii) By October 1, 2021, each pneumatic controller
                                 at a natural gas compressor station that emits natural
                                 gas pursuant to Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C)
                                 must be tagged, which will indicate that the controller
                                 may emit natural gas.

           III.C.4.f. Company-Wide Well Production Facility and Natural Gas
                   Compressor Station Reporting Requirements.

                 III.C.4.f.(i)   Owners and operators of well production facilities
                         subject to Sections III.C.4.c.(i) through (iii) must submit a
                         Company-Wide Well Production Facility Pneumatic
                         Controller Compliance Plan to the Division on the Division-
                         approved form by September 1, 2021, and include all of the
                         following elements:




                                                                                              224
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.C.4.f.(i)(A) A list of existing well production facilities as of
                                  May 1, 2021, including AIRS identification numbers
                                  and facility names.

                          III.C.4.f.(i)(B) The following for each well production facility:

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(B)(1)    Historic Facility Production.

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(B)(2)    Facility Percent Production.

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(B)(3)    Historic Non-Emitting Facility
                                          Percent Production.

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(B)(4)    The API number for each
                                          producing well included in the Total Historic
                                          Facility Production.

                          III.C.4.f.(i)(C) The following company-wide information:

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(C)(1)    Total Historic Production.

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(C)(2)    Total Historic Non-Emitting
                                          Facility Percent Production, including a list of
                                          facilities already using non-emitting controllers
                                          as determined in Section III.C.4.c.(ii)(E).

                                  III.C.4.f.(i)(C)(3)    Total Required Non-Emitting
                                          Facility Percent Production.

                          III.C.4.f.(i)(D) An indication of which and in what year well
                                  production facilities are expected to be retrofit with
                                  non-emitting controllers, or plugged and abandoned,
                                  to meet the required Additional Non-Emitting Facility
                                  Percent Production for each year listed in Table 1.

                 III.C.4.f.(ii)   Owners or operators will submit an updated
                          Company-Wide Facility Pneumatic Controller Compliance
                          Plan by July 1 of each year listed in Table 1, unless the
                          owner or operator has demonstrated compliance with the


                                                                                           225
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          Total Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production in a
                          previous year’s plan. The updated plan will include all of the
                          following elements:

                          III.C.4.f.(ii)(A) All elements set forth in Sections III.C.4.f.(i)(A)
                                   through (C).

                          III.C.4.f.(ii)(B) The date (month and year) that any well
                                   production facilities were retrofit or plugged and
                                   abandoned since the prior submission, which may
                                   vary from the information previously provided
                                   pursuant to Section III.C.4.f.(i)(D).

                          III.C.4.f.(ii)(C)       An update of information set forth in
                                   Section III.C.4.f.(i)(D) if the Total Required Non-
                                   Emitting Facility Percent Production required by Table
                                   1 has not been met.

                          III.C.4.f.(ii)(D)       For each submission, the owner or
                                   operator must list each existing well production facility
                                   that is utilizing non-emitting controllers and provide a
                                   demonstration that the required Additional Non-
                                   Emitting Facility Percent Production for the relevant
                                   year has been met.

                          III.C.4.f.(ii)(E) In the final year, the owner or operator must
                                   additionally provide a demonstration that the Total
                                   Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production
                                   has been met.

                 III.C.4.f.(iii)   Owners and operators of natural gas compressor
                          stations subject to Sections III.C.4.d.(i) through (iii) must
                          submit a Company-Wide Compressor Station Pneumatic
                          Controller Compliance Plan to the Division on a Division-




                                                                                           226
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         approved form by September 1, 2021, and include all of the
                         following elements:

                         III.C.4.f.(iii)(A)        A listing of existing natural gas
                                  compressor stations as of May 1, 2021, including
                                  AIRS identification numbers and facility names.

                         III.C.4.f.(iii)(B)        The following company-wide
                                  information:

                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(B)(1)   Total Controller Count, including
                                          a list of each pneumatic controller and all non-
                                          emitting controllers, except that pneumatic
                                          controllers excluded under Sections
                                          III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (C) are not included in
                                          the Total Controller Count.

                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(B)(2)   Total Historic Non-Emitting
                                          Controllers, including an indication as to which
                                          controllers are already non-emitting.

                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(B)(3)   Total Required Non-Emitting
                                          Facility Percent Controllers.

                         III.C.4.f.(iii)(C)        An indication of which and in what year
                                  controllers are expected to be retrofit with non-
                                  emitting controllers or removed from service (as
                                  applicable) to meet the required Additional Non-
                                  Emitting Percent Controllers for each year listed in
                                  Table 2.

                 III.C.4.f.(iv)   Owners or operators will submit an updated
                         Company-Wide Compressor Station Pneumatic Controller
                         Compliance Plan by July 1 of each year listed in Table 2,
                         unless the owner or operator has demonstrated compliance
                         with the Total Required Non-Emitting Percent Controllers in a



                                                                                         227
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          previous year’s plan. The updated plan will include all of the
                          following elements:

                          III.C.4.f.(iv)(A)        All elements set forth in Sections
                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(A) through (B).

                          III.C.4.f.(iv)(B)        The date (month and year) that any
                                  controllers at natural gas compressor stations were
                                  retrofit or removed from service since the prior
                                  submission, which may vary from the information
                                  previously provided pursuant to Section
                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(C).

                          III.C.4.f.(iv)(C)        The information set forth in Section
                                  III.C.4.f.(iii)(C) if the Total Required Non-Emitting
                                  Percent Controllers required by Table 2 has not been
                                  met.

                          III.C.4.f.(iv)(D)        For each submission, the owner or
                                  operator must list total controllers and total non-
                                  emitting controllers at existing natural gas compressor
                                  stations and provide a demonstration that the required
                                  Additional Non-Emitting Percent Controllers for the
                                  relevant year has been met.

                          III.C.4.f.(iv)(E)        In the final year, the owner or operator
                                  must additionally provide a demonstration that the
                                  Total Required Non-Emitting Percent Controller has
                                  been met.

           III.C.4.g.     Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements. The records in
                    Sections III.C.4.g.(i) through (vii) must be kept for a period of five
                    years and made available to the Division upon request.

                  III.C.4.g.(i)   Records of the date a well production facility
                          completes retrofit or all wells flowing to the well production



                                                                                          228
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         facility are plugged and abandoned, or the date natural gas
                         compressor station pneumatic controllers were retrofit or is
                         taken out of service.

                 III.C.4.g.(ii)   If claiming an exemption under Sections
                         III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through III.C.4.e.(i)(D), records for each
                         pneumatic controller demonstrating that the exemption
                         applies.

                 III.C.4.g.(iii) Copies of the Company-Wide Well Production Facility
                         Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plan and Company-Wide
                         Compressor Station Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plans
                         required to be submitted by Sections III.C.4.f.(i) through
                         III.C.4.f.(iv).

                 III.C.4.g.(iv) For any owner or operator utilizing the provision in
                         Section III.C.4.c.(iv), the records described in Section
                         III.C.4.c.(iv) that demonstrate the owner or operator qualifies
                         for that provision.

                 III.C.4.g.(v)    For each pneumatic controller required to be tagged
                         pursuant to Sections III.C.4.d.(iv), III.C.4.d.(vi)(B),
                         III.C.4.e.(ii), or III.C.4.e.(iii), a list of each tagged pneumatic
                         controller, equipment location, and its tag identification
                         number.

                 III.C.4.g.(vi) Records required to be submitted to the Division
                         pursuant to Sections III.C.4.c.(v) and III.C.4.d.(v).

                 III.C.4.g.(vii) Owners or operators that rely on Section
                         III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a) must maintain: (1) the date of the AIMM
                         or AVO inspection at the production facility to which the well
                         flows, (2) the date of the AIMM or AVO inspection of the
                         wellhead site once the conditions preventing inspection has
                         been resolved, and (3) records demonstrating the



                                                                                         229
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                circumstances that prevented the wellhead site from being
                                inspected.

                        III.C.4.g.(viii) Owners or operators that rely on Section
                                III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a) shall report annually by May 31 of each
                                year, on a form approved by the Division, the number of
                                wellhead sites for which the AIMM inspection was delayed
                                pursuant to Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a), the number of
                                wellhead sites for which the AVO inspection was delayed
                                pursuant to Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a), and the total
                                number of wellhead sites where inspections were delayed
                                pursuant to Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(a) for (1) 30 days or
                                less, (2) greater than 30 days but less than or equal to 90
                                days, and (3) greater than 90 days.

     III.C.5.           (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities)
                Natural gas-driven pneumatic controller requirements beginning April 30,
                2025.

                III.C.5.a.      Applicability.

                        III.C.5.a.(i)    This Section III.C.5. applies to natural gas-driven
                                pneumatic controllers located at well production facilities and
                                natural gas compressor stations upstream of natural gas
                                processing plants and at natural gas processing plants.

                        III.C.5.a.(ii)   Pneumatic controllers that function as emergency
                                shutdown devices are not subject to the requirements of this
                                Section III.C.5. and facilities at which emergency shutdown
                                devices are the only natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                                used are not subject to this Section III.C.5.

                                III.C.5.a.(ii)(A) (State Only) Each natural gas-driven
                                         pneumatic controller that functions as an emergency
                                         shutdown device must be physically tagged by the



                                                                                                230
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  owner or operator by May 1, 2026, identifying the
                                  controller as an emergency shutdown device.

           III.C.5.b.     Methane emission reduction requirements.

                  III.C.5.b.(i)   In accordance with the schedules in Tables 3 and 4,
                          as applicable, owners or operators must design and operate
                          their facilities that had natural gas-driven pneumatic
                          controllers as of May 1, 2023, and are not subject to Section
                          III.C.5.b.(v) with no emissions from natural gas-driven
                          pneumatic controllers, through any combination of the
                          following methods:

                          III.C.5.b.(i)(A)      Pneumatic controller emissions can be
                                  routed to a process through a closed vent system that
                                  is designed to capture and route all gases, vapors,
                                  and fumes;

                          III.C.5.b.(i)(B)      Pneumatic controllers can be self-
                                  contained;

                          III.C.5.b.(i)(C)      The use of natural gas-driven pneumatic
                                  controllers can be eliminated through configuration,
                                  removal, or replacement, including the use of non-
                                  natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers or non-
                                  pneumatic controllers, such as solar or electric; and/or

                          III.C.5.b.(i)(D)      Facilities can be shut down. If an owner
                                  or operator counts a shutdown facility for purposes of
                                  compliance with this Section III.C.5.b., as reflected in
                                  the interim compliance reports pursuant to Section
                                  III.C.5.b.(iv), the owner or operator may not return that
                                  facility to operation unless that facility complies with
                                  this Section III.C.5.b. through another method of
                                  compliance.



                                                                                        231
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  III.C.5.b.(ii)   (State Only) Compliance schedules

                          III.C.5.b.(ii)(A)        Owners or operators must design their
                                   facilities located inside the 8-hour Ozone Control Area
                                   or northern Weld County to comply with Section
                                   III.C.5.b.(i) in accordance with the following schedule
                                   in Table 3. The total number of facilities that the
                                   compliance percentages are based on are those
                                   included in an owner or operator’s total facility count
                                   or revised total facility count, pursuant to Sections
                                   III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2) and III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2), respectively.
                                   The process for demonstrating compliance with the
                                   required compliance percentages is provided in
                                   Section III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(3).



            Table 3 - Compliance Schedule for Facilities Located Inside
              the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County

                                              Percentage (%) of an owner or
                                               operator's applicable facilities
             Compliance deadlines
                                              that must be in compliance with
                                                    Section III.C.5.b.(i)

                 May 1, 2026                                50%

                 May 1, 2027                               100%

                          III.C.5.b.(ii)(B)        Owners or operators must design their
                                   facilities located outside the 8-hour Ozone Control
                                   Area or northern Weld County to comply with Section
                                   III.C.5.b.(i) in accordance with the following schedule
                                   in Table 4. The total number of facilities that the
                                   compliance percentages are based on are those
                                   included in an owner or operator’s total facility count


                                                                                            232
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                or revised total facility count, pursuant to Sections
                                III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2) and III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2), respectively.
                                The process for demonstrating compliance with the
                                required compliance percentages is provided in
                                Section III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(3).

               Table 4 - Compliance Schedule for Facilities Located
                Outside the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or northern
                                    Weld County

                                       Percentage (%) of an owner or
                 Compliance             operator's applicable facilities
                  deadlines           that must be in compliance with
                                              Section III.C.5.b.(i)

                 May 1, 2026                          25%

                 May 1, 2027                          50%

                 May 1, 2028                          75%

                March 1, 2029                        100%

                 III.C.5.b.(iii) (State Only) Initial reporting.




                                                                                         233
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)      By December 1, 2025, owners or
                               operators must submit a single initial report to the
                               Division, in a Division-approved format, that includes
                               the following information.

                               III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(1)   Company name, physical street
                                       address, and name and contact information of
                                       the company representative, for reporting
                                       purposes.

                               III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2)   Total facility counts that equal the
                                       sum of all of the owner or operator’s facilities
                                       that had natural gas-driven pneumatic
                                       controllers as of May 1, 2023, and that are not
                                       subject to Section III.C.5.b.(v). A total facility
                                       count must be reported for the owner or
                                       operator’s applicable facilities located in the 8-
                                       hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld
                                       County and a total facility count must be
                                       reported for the owner or operator’s applicable
                                       facilities located outside the 8-hour Ozone
                                       Control Area or northern Weld County.

                               III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(3)   An identification of each facility
                                       counted in the total facility counts pursuant to
                                       Section III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2), including each
                                       facility’s name, AIRS ID, county location, and
                                       whether or not the facility is located in the 8-
                                       hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld
                                       County.

                 III.C.5.b.(iv) (State Only) Interim compliance reporting.

                       III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)       On or before June 30, 2026, and by
                               June 30 each year thereafter until June 30, 2027, for


                                                                                        234
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             facilities subject to Section III.C.5.b.(ii)(A) or June 30,
                             2029, for facilities subject to Section III.C.5.b.(ii)(B),
                             owners or operators must submit annual reports for
                             the most recent compliance date, in a Division-
                             approved format, that includes the following
                             information.

                             III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(1)   Company name, physical street
                                    address, facility names, the name and contact
                                    information of the company representative, for
                                    reporting purposes, the date of submission,
                                    and the period covered by the report with an
                                    identification of the most recent applicable
                                    compliance deadline date in Table 3 or 4.

                             III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2)   Revised total facility counts that
                                    reflect any revisions to the total facility counts
                                    determined pursuant to Section
                                    III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2) to account for any asset
                                    transfers as described in Section
                                    III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(4). A revised total facility count
                                    must be reported for the owner or operator’s
                                    applicable facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone
                                    Control Area or northern Weld County and a
                                    revised total facility count must be reported for
                                    the owner or operator’s applicable facilities
                                    located outside the 8-hour Ozone Control Area
                                    or northern Weld County.

                             III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(3)   A demonstration of compliance
                                    with the most recent applicable compliance
                                    percentages in Tables 3 and 4. Compliance is
                                    demonstrated by dividing the number of the



                                                                                      235
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    owner or operator’s facilities counted towards
                                    compliance with Sections III.C.5.b.(ii)(A) or
                                    III.C.5.b.(ii)(B), by the owner or operator’s
                                    revised total facility counts, determined
                                    pursuant to Section III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2). The
                                    report must include an identification of each
                                    facility in the revised total facility counts being
                                    counted as compliant with Section III.C.5.b.(i),
                                    including each facility’s name, AIRS ID, county
                                    location, whether or not the facility is located in
                                    the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or northern
                                    Weld County, and, as applicable, the method(s)
                                    of compliance.

                             III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(4)   If, within the previous reporting
                                    year, an owner or operator acquired or
                                    divested any facilities that affect the owner or
                                    operator’s total facility counts, the owner or
                                    operator must report which facilities were
                                    acquired or divested and must revise the total
                                    facility counts as described in Section
                                    III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2) by the next compliance
                                    deadline following the asset transfer. The
                                    transferor must remove the transferred asset(s)
                                    from its revised total facility count and the
                                    transferee must add the asset(s) to its revised
                                    total facility count. If a transferor has previously
                                    designated transferred asset(s) to demonstrate
                                    compliance with an applicable deadline in
                                    Tables 3 or 4, the transferor is no longer
                                    entitled to count the transferred asset(s) for
                                    compliance for the next applicable deadline. In


                                                                                     236
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                        such circumstance, the transferee is entitled to
                                        count the transferred asset(s) for compliance
                                        for the next applicable deadline.

                                 III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(5)   In the 2027 report for well
                                        production facilities subject to Section
                                        III.C.5.b.(vi), owners or operators must provide
                                        the list of well production facilities required in
                                        III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(2) and the following with
                                        respect to the facilities in the first half of the list:
                                        an indication of which facilities complied with
                                        Section III.C.5.b.(i) and an indication of
                                        whether the facility was transferred, the name
                                        of the transferee/transferor, and for facilities
                                        that were transferred, an indication of whether
                                        the facility complied with Section II.C.5.b.(i)
                                        prior to transfer.

                 III.C.5.b.(v)   Facilities with natural gas-driven pneumatic
                        controllers that had emissions routed to a process or were
                        self-contained as of May 1, 2023.

                        III.C.5.b.(v)(A)        Owners or operators of well production
                                 facilities, natural gas compressor stations, and natural
                                 gas processing plants for which the only natural gas-
                                 driven pneumatic controllers at the facility as of May
                                 1, 2023, other than emergency shutdown devices,
                                 were routed pneumatic controllers (as defined prior to
                                 April 30, 2025) that released to sales line or process
                                 or were self-contained pneumatic controllers (as
                                 defined prior to April 30, 2025) must ensure that such
                                 facilities comply with Sections III.C.5.b.(i)(A) through
                                 III.C.5.b.(i)(D) by May 1, 2027.



                                                                                           237
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        III.C.5.b.(v)(B)      Owners or operators of facilities subject
                               to Section III.C.5.b.(v)(A) must first report relevant
                               information in Section III.C.5.c.(v) by June 30, 2027.

                 III.C.5.b.(vi) Additional requirements for well production facilities
                        subject to Section III.C.5.b.(ii)(B).

                        III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)     In addition to compliance deadlines and
                               percentages in Table 4, owners or operators of well
                               production facilities outside of the 8-hour Ozone
                               Control Area and northern Weld County must comply
                               with the following requirements.

                               III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)(1)   By December 1, 2025, owners or
                                       operators must determine for each well
                                       production facility identified as part of the total
                                       facility count calculated in Section
                                       III.C.5.b.(iii)(A)(2), the total liquids production
                                       (summing total barrels of hydrocarbon liquids
                                       and water produced through the well
                                       production facility) for calendar year 2023, as
                                       reported pursuant to Regulation Number 7,
                                       Part B, Section V.

                               III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)(2)   In the initial report required by
                                       Section III.C.5.b.(iii), owners or operators must
                                       list the well production facilities in descending
                                       order by production (with the highest producing
                                       facility first and the lowest producing facility
                                       last). If well production facilities have the same
                                       production, the owner or operator may elect
                                       the order in which to list the facilities.

                               III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)(3)   Owners or operators must ensure
                                       that the facilities in the first half of the list (50%


                                                                                          238
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                           of the list) of well production facilities
                                           determined in Section III.C.5.(vi)(A)(2) comply
                                           with Section III.C.5.b.(i) by the May 1, 2027,
                                           compliance deadline in Section III.C.5.b.(ii)(B).
                                           Any facilities complying with this Section
                                           III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)(3) will count towards the
                                           compliance percentages in Table 4.

                                    III.C.5.b.(vi)(A)(4)   If an owner or operator transfers
                                           to another owner or operator a well production
                                           facility in the first half of the list of well
                                           production facilities determined in Section
                                           III.C.5.(vi)(A)(2), then either the owner or
                                           operator must ensure that the well production
                                           facility complies with Section III.C.5.b.(i) prior
                                           to the transfer or the new owner or operator
                                           must ensure that the well production facility
                                           complies with Section III.C.5.b.(i) prior to May
                                           1, 2027.

           III.C.5.c.      Additional requirements for the ongoing use of self-contained
                    natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers and natural gas-driven
                    pneumatic controllers for which emissions are routed to a process.

                   III.C.5.c.(i)    For facilities with natural gas-driven pneumatic
                           controllers that are subject to Section III.C.5.b.(v), the
                           requirements of this Section III.C.5.c. apply beginning May 1,
                           2027.

                   III.C.5.c.(ii)   For facilities with natural gas-driven pneumatic
                           controllers that use a method in Section III.C.5.b.(i)(A) or (B)
                           to comply with Section III.C.5.b.(i) and are not subject to
                           Section III.C.5.b.(v), the requirements of this Section
                           III.C.5.c. begin applying upon the applicable compliance


                                                                                            239
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       deadline date in Table 3 or 4 of Section III.C.5.b.(ii) for which
                       a facility contributes to the compliance percentages in Tables
                       3 or 4, except that Section III.C.5.c.(iii)(D) applies within
                       thirty (30) days after routing emissions through the closed
                       vent system.

                 III.C.5.c.(iii) Closed vent system requirements

                       III.C.5.c.(iii)(A)      A qualified professional engineer or an
                               in-house engineer with expertise on the design and
                               operation of the closed vent system must certify an
                               assessment that the closed vent system is of
                               sufficient design and capacity to ensure that all gases,
                               vapors, and fumes from pneumatic controllers are
                               routed to the process.

                       III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)      If the closed vent system contains one
                               or more bypass devices that could be used to divert
                               all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from
                               being routed to a process, owners or operators must
                               either

                               III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(1)   Install, calibrate, maintain, and
                                        operate a flow indicator at the inlet of the
                                        bypass device(s). The flow indicator must be
                                        capable and set to take readings at least once
                                        every fifteen (15) minutes at the inlet to the
                                        bypass device and sound an alarm, or remote
                                        notification, when the bypass device is open
                                        such that the stream is being, or could be,
                                        diverted away from the control device or
                                        process and sent to the atmosphere; or

                               III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(2)   The bypass device valve must be
                                        secured at the inlet to the bypass device in the


                                                                                         240
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                       non-diverting position using a car-seal or a
                                       lock-and-key type configuration.

                               III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(3)   The bypass device valve must be
                                       visually inspected at least once every month to
                                       verify that the vent stream is not diverted
                                       through the bypass device.

                               III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(4)   Low leg drains, high point bleeds,
                                       analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines,
                                       and safety devices are not subject to the
                                       requirements of Section III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(1) and
                                       III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(2).

                       III.C.5.c.(iii)(C)      The owner or operator must inspect
                               closed vent systems during the leak detection and
                               repair inspections conducted pursuant to Part B,
                               Section II.E. for well production facilities and natural
                               gas compressor stations and Part B Section II.I. for
                               natural gas-processing plants. If emissions are
                               detected in any inspection, the owner or operator
                               must comply with the applicable repair requirements
                               in accordance with Part B, Section II.E.6. for well
                               production facilities and natural gas compressor
                               stations and Part B, Section II.I. for natural gas-
                               processing plants.

                       III.C.5.c.(iii)(D)      The owner or operator must conduct an
                               initial leak detection and repair inspection of the
                               closed vent system within thirty (30) days after routing
                               emissions through the closed vent system and repair
                               any emissions detected. This requirement does not
                               apply to facilities applicable to Section III.C.5.c.(i) or




                                                                                       241
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 pneumatic controllers routed to process before April
                                 30, 2025.

                        III.C.5.c.(iii)(E)      The owner or operator must conduct
                                 annual visual inspections of the closed vent system
                                 for defects that could result in air emissions.

                 III.C.5.c.(iv) Self-contained pneumatic controller requirements

                        III.C.5.c.(iv)(A)       The owner or operator must inspect self-
                                 contained pneumatic controllers during the leak
                                 detection and repair inspections conducted pursuant
                                 to Part B, Section II.E. for well production facilities
                                 and natural gas compressor stations and Part B,
                                 Section II.I for natural gas-processing plants. If
                                 emissions are detected in any inspection, the owner
                                 or operator must comply with the repair requirements
                                 in Part B, Section II.E.6 for well production facilities
                                 and natural gas compressor stations and Part B,
                                 Section II.I. for natural gas-processing plants.

                 III.C.5.c.(v)   Recordkeeping

                        III.C.5.c.(v)(A)        Owners or operators must maintain the
                                 following records for at least five (5) years and make
                                 them available to the Division upon request.

                                 III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(1)   Records identifying each natural
                                        gas-driven pneumatic controller for which
                                        vapors are routed to a process through a
                                        closed vent system, including the name and
                                        AIRS ID of the facility where the controller is
                                        located.

                                 III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(2)   Records identifying each self-
                                        contained natural gas-driven pneumatic



                                                                                           242
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    controller, including the name and AIRS ID of
                                    the facility where the controller is located.

                             III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(3)   For inspections of closed vent
                                    systems and self-contained pneumatic
                                    controllers, as applicable, leak detection and
                                    repair records as required by Part B, Section
                                    II.E.8. for well production facilities and natural
                                    gas compressor stations and Part B, Section
                                    II.I for natural gas processing plants.

                             III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(4)   If applicable, for bypass devices
                                    used in closed vent systems, records of
                                    readings from the flow indicator, each
                                    inspection of the seal or closure mechanism,
                                    and the date and time of each instance the
                                    alarm is sounded.

                             III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(5)   If applicable, records of each
                                    change in compliance method for compliance
                                    with Section III.C.5.b.(i), including identification
                                    of each natural gas-driven process controller
                                    which changes its method of compliance, the
                                    new method of compliance, and the date of the
                                    change in the method of compliance.

                             III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(6)   Records of each deviation, the
                                    date and time the deviation began, the duration
                                    of the deviation, and a description of the
                                    deviation.

                             III.C.5.c.(v)(A)(7)   If applicable, records of the
                                    certification(s) by a qualified professional
                                    engineer or in-house engineer that the closed
                                    vent system is of sufficient design and capacity


                                                                                    243
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      to route pneumatic controller emissions to a
                                      process, pursuant to Section III.C.5.c.(iii)(A).

                       III.C.5.c.(v)(B)      Any records required to be maintained
                              by this section may be maintained in electronic
                              format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does
                              not affect the requirement for facilities to make
                              records, data, and reports available upon request to
                              the Division or as part of an onsite compliance
                              evaluation.

                 III.C.5.c.(vi) Annual Reporting

                       III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)     On or before June 30, 2027, and by
                              June 30 each year thereafter, owners or operators
                              must submit annual reports for the previous calendar
                              year, in a Division-approved format, that includes the
                              following information.

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(1)   Company name, physical street
                                      address, facility names, the name and contact
                                      information of the company representative, for
                                      reporting purposes, the date of submission,
                                      and the period covered by the report.

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(2)   An identification of each facility
                                      complying with Section III.C.5.b.(i) by either
                                      routing emissions from natural gas-driven
                                      pneumatic controllers to a process through a
                                      closed vent system or by using self-contained
                                      natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers and,
                                      for each facility, an identification of each natural
                                      gas-driven pneumatic controller and the
                                      applicable method of compliance.




                                                                                       244
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(3)   For each facility, as applicable,
                                      identification of any changes to the methods of
                                      compliance with Section III.C.5.b.(i) during the
                                      reporting period and the applicable information
                                      required in this Section III.C.5.(vi)(A) for the
                                      new method of compliance.

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(4)   For each pneumatic controller in
                                      each applicable facility complying with the
                                      requirements of III.C.5.b.(i) by routing
                                      emissions to a process using a closed vent
                                      system, the dates of inspections required
                                      under Sections III.C.5.c.(iii)(D) and
                                      III.C.5.c.(iii)(E). Leak detection and repair
                                      records for closed vent systems should be
                                      reported pursuant to Part B, Section II.E.8. for
                                      well production facilities and natural gas
                                      compressor stations and Part B, Section II.I for
                                      natural gas processing plants.

                       III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(5)   For each pneumatic controller at the
                              applicable facility complying with the requirements of
                              Section III.C.5.b.(i) by using a self-contained natural
                              gas-driven process controller, leak detection and
                              repair records for closed vent systems should be
                              reported pursuant to Part B, Section II.E.8. for well
                              production facilities and natural gas compressor
                              stations and Part B, Section II.I for natural gas
                              processing plants.

                       III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(6)   For each deviation that occurred during
                              the reporting period, the date and time the deviation
                              began, the duration of the deviation in hours, and a



                                                                                         245
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                     description of the deviation. If no deviations occurred
                                     during the reporting period, owners or operators must
                                     include a statement that no deviations occurred
                                     during the reporting period.

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(7)   For closed vent systems that use
                                     bypass devices, the date and time of each bypass
                                     device alarm sounded and any instance the valve was
                                     unsecured or in the diverting position, pursuant to
                                     Sections III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(1) and III.C.5.c.(iii)(B)(2).

                              III.C.5.c.(vi)(A)(8)   A certification by the company
                                     representative that supervised the development and
                                     submission of the report that, based on information
                                     and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the
                                     statements and information in the document are true,
                                     accurate, and complete.

               III.C.5.d.     As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair,
                        and recordkeeping provisions described in Section III.C.5.c., the
                        owner or operator may comply with natural gas-driven pneumatic
                        controller emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
                        reporting requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb
                        (March 8, 2024).

III.D. Monitoring

This section applies to pneumatic controllers identified in Sections III.C.1.f. and III.C.2.e.
(State Only: and in Sections III.C.3.c. and III.C.3.d.(iii)).

       III.D.1. In the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County and located
               from the wellhead to the natural gas processing plant or point of custody
               transfer to an oil pipeline:

               III.D.1.a.     Effective May 1, 2009, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                        northern Weld County, each high-bleed pneumatic controller must



                                                                                                 246
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         be physically tagged by the owner or operator identifying it with a
                         unique high-bleed pneumatic controller number that is assigned
                         and maintained by the owner or operator.

                III.D.1.b.    Effective May 1, 2009, or February 14, 2023, if located in
                         northern Weld County, the owner or operator must inspect each
                         high-bleed pneumatic controller on a monthly basis, perform
                         necessary maintenance (such as cleaning, tuning, and repairing
                         leaking gaskets, tubing fittings, and seals; tuning to operate over a
                         broader range of proportional band, eliminating unnecessary valve
                         positioners), and maintain the pneumatic controller according to
                         manufacturer specifications to ensure that the controller’s natural
                         gas emissions are minimized.

     III.D.2.          In the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County and
                located at a natural gas processing plant:

                III.D.2.a.    Effective May 1, 2018, or March 1, 2023, if located in
                         northern Weld County, each pneumatic controller with a natural
                         gas bleed rate greater than zero must be physically tagged by the
                         owner or operator identifying it with a unique pneumatic controller
                         number that is assigned and maintained by the owner or operator.

                III.D.2.b.    Effective May 1, 2018, or March 1, 2023, if located in
                         northern Weld County, the owner or operator must inspect each
                         pneumatic controller with a natural gas bleed rate greater than
                         zero on a monthly basis, perform necessary maintenance (such
                         as cleaning, tuning, and repairing leaking gaskets, tubing fittings,
                         and seals; tuning to operate over a broader range of proportional
                         band; eliminating unnecessary valve positioners), and maintain
                         the pneumatic controller according to manufacturer specifications
                         to ensure that the controller’s natural gas emissions are
                         minimized.

     III.D.3.          (State Only) Statewide:


                                                                                           247
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 III.D.3.a.    Effective May 1, 2015, each high-bleed pneumatic controller
                          must be physically tagged by the owner or operator identifying it
                          with a unique high-bleed pneumatic controller number that is
                          assigned and maintained by the owner or operator.

                 III.D.3.b.    Effective May 1, 2015, the owner or operator must inspect
                          each high-bleed pneumatic controller on a monthly basis, perform
                          necessary maintenance (such as cleaning, tuning, and repairing
                          leaking gaskets, tubing fittings, and seals; tuning to operate over a
                          broader range of proportional band; eliminating unnecessary valve
                          positioners), and maintain the pneumatic controller according to
                          manufacturer specifications to ensure that the controller’s natural
                          gas emissions are minimized.

      III.D.4.          State Only) Located at a natural gas processing plant not subject to
                 Section III.D.2.

                 III.D.4.a.    Effective March 1, 2023, each pneumatic controller with a
                          natural gas bleed rate greater than zero must be physically tagged
                          by the owner or operator identifying it with a unique pneumatic
                          controller number that is assigned and maintained by the owner or
                          operator.

                 III.D.4.b.    Effective March 1, 2023, the owner or operator must inspect
                          each pneumatic controller with a natural gas bleed rate greater
                          than zero on a monthly basis, perform necessary maintenance
                          (such as cleaning, tuning, and repairing leaking gaskets, tubing
                          fittings, and seals; tuning to operate over a broader range of
                          proportional band; eliminating unnecessary valve positioners), and
                          maintain the pneumatic controller according to manufacturer
                          specifications to ensure that the controller’s natural gas emissions
                          are minimized.

III.E. Recordkeeping




                                                                                            248
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.E.1. In the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County:

           III.E.1.a.      Continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                    located from the wellhead to the natural gas processing plant or
                    point of custody transfer to an oil pipeline:

                   III.E.1.a.(i)    By January 1, 2019, or January 1, 2024, if located in
                           northern Weld County, owners or operators must compile an
                           estimate of the total number of continuous bleed, natural
                           gas-driven pneumatic controllers in service prior to January
                           1, 2018, or January 1, 2024, if located in northern Weld
                           County, and documentation (e.g., manufacturer specification,
                           engineering calculations) that the natural gas bleed rate is
                           less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet of gas per hour.

                   III.E.1.a.(ii)   Beginning January 1, 2018, or January 1, 2024, if
                           located in northern Weld County, the owner or operator must
                           maintain records of the make and model of each type of
                           continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                           placed in service on or after January 1, 2018, or January 1,
                           2024, if located in northern Weld County, and documentation
                           (e.g., manufacturer specification, engineering calculations)
                           that the natural gas bleed rate is less than or equal to 6
                           standard cubic feet of gas per hour. Owners or operators
                           must use this information to update the estimate required in
                           Section III.E.1.a.(i) every three years (i.e., by January 1,
                           2022, January 1, 2025, etc.) (i.e., for northern Weld County,
                           January 1, 2027, January 1, 2030, etc.).

           III.E.1.b.      Continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                    located at a natural gas processing plant:

                   III.E.1.b.(i)    By January 1, 2019, or January 1, 2024, if located in
                           northern Weld County, owners or operators must compile an
                           estimate of the total number of continuous bleed, natural


                                                                                          249
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            gas-driven pneumatic controllers in service prior to January
                            1, 2018, or January 1, 2024, if located in northern Weld
                            County, and documentation (e.g., manufacturer specification,
                            engineering calculations) that the natural gas bleed rate is
                            zero.

                    III.E.1.b.(ii)   Beginning January 1, 2018, or January 1, 2024, if
                            located in northern Weld County, the owner or operator must
                            maintain records of the make and model of each type of
                            continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                            placed in service on or after January 1, 2018, or January 1,
                            2024, if located in northern Weld County, and documentation
                            (e.g., manufacturer specification, engineering calculations)
                            that the natural gas bleed rate is zero. Owners or operators
                            must use this information to update the estimate required in
                            Section III.E.1.b.(i) every three years (i.e., by January 1,
                            2022, January 1, 2025, etc.) (i.e., for northern Weld County,
                            January 1, 2027, January 1, 2030, etc.).

            III.E.1.c.      Records must be maintained for a minimum of five years and
                     made available to the Division upon request.

     III.E.2. This section applies only to pneumatic controllers identified in Sections
            III.C.1.f. and III.C.2.e. (State Only: and in Section III.C.3.c.).

            III.E.2.a.      The owner or operator must maintain a log of the total
                     number of pneumatic controllers and their associated controller
                     numbers per facility, the total number of pneumatic controllers per
                     company and the associated justification that the pneumatic
                     controllers must be used pursuant to Sections III.C.1.f. and
                     III.C.2.e. (State Only: and in Section III.C.3.c.). The log shall be
                     updated on a monthly basis.

            III.E.2.b.      The owner or operator must maintain a log of necessary
                     maintenance which shall include, at a minimum, inspection dates,


                                                                                           250
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         the date of the maintenance activity, pneumatic controller number,
                         description of the maintenance performed, results and date of any
                         corrective action taken, and the printed name and signature of the
                         individual performing the maintenance. The log shall be updated
                         on a monthly basis.

                III.E.2.c.      Records of maintenance of pneumatic controllers shall be
                         maintained for a minimum of three years and readily made
                         available to the Division upon request.

III.F.   (State Only) Pneumatic Controller Inspection and Enhanced Response

         III.F.1. General Requirements

                III.F.1.a. Beginning January 1, 2018, owners or operators of natural gas-
                         driven pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
                         must operate and maintain pneumatic controllers consistent with
                         manufacturer’s specifications, if available, or good engineering
                         and maintenance practices.

                III.F.1.b. Beginning May 1, 2020, owners or operators of natural gas-driven
                         pneumatic controllers state-wide must operate and maintain
                         pneumatic controllers consistent with manufacturer’s
                         specifications, if available, or good engineering and maintenance
                         practices.

         III.F.2. Pneumatic controller inspection

                III.F.2.a. Beginning June 30, 2018, through calendar year 2019, owners or
                         operators of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers at well
                         production facilities in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area must
                         inspect pneumatic controllers using an approved instrument
                         monitoring method at least

                        III.F.2.a.(i)   Annually at well production facilities with uncontrolled
                                actual volatile organic compound emissions greater than or




                                                                                             251
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          equal to one (1) ton per year and less than or equal to six (6)
                          tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total.

                 III.F.2.a.(ii)    Semi-annually at well production facilities with
                          uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound emissions
                          greater than six (6) tons per year and less than or equal to
                          twelve (12) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month
                          total.

                 III.F.2.a.(iii)   Quarterly at well production facilities with uncontrolled
                          actual volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                          twelve (12) tons per year and less than or equal to twenty
                          (20) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total, or
                          fifty (50) tons per year if no storage tanks storing oil or
                          condensate are located at the well production facility, based
                          on a rolling twelve-month total.

                 III.F.2.a.(iv)    Monthly at well production facilities with uncontrolled
                          actual volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                          twenty (20) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month
                          total, or fifty (50) tons per year if no storage tanks storing oil
                          or condensate are located at the well production facility,
                          based on a rolling twelve-month total.

           III.F.2.b. Beginning calendar year 2020, owners or operators of natural
                   gas-driven pneumatic controllers at well production facilities must
                   inspect pneumatic controllers using an approved instrument
                   monitoring method at least:

                 III.F.2.b.(i)     Annually at well production facilities in the 8-Hour
                          Ozone Control Area with uncontrolled actual volatile organic
                          compound emissions greater than or equal to one (1) ton per
                          year and less than two (2) tons per year, based on a rolling
                          twelve-month total.




                                                                                          252
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  III.F.2.b.(ii)    Semi-annually at well production facilities statewide
                           with uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound
                           emissions greater than or equal to two (2) tons per year and
                           less than or equal to twelve (12) tons per year, based on a
                           rolling twelve-month total.

                  III.F.2.b.(iii)   Quarterly at well production facilities statewide with
                           uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound emissions
                           greater than twelve (12) tons per year and less than or equal
                           to twenty (20) tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month
                           total, or fifty (50) tons per year if no storage tanks storing oil
                           or condensate are located at the well production facility,
                           based on a rolling twelve-month total.

                  III.F.2.b.(iv)    Monthly at well production facilities statewide with
                           uncontrolled actual volatile organic compound emissions
                           greater than twenty (20) tons per year, based on a rolling
                           twelve-month total, or fifty (50) tons per year if no storage
                           tanks storing oil or condensate are located at the well
                           production facility, based on a rolling twelve-month total.

           III.F.2.c. Beginning calendar year 2023, owners or operators of natural
                   gas-driven pneumatic controllers at well production facilities must
                   inspect pneumatic controllers using an approved instrument
                   monitoring method at the same frequency that the owner or
                   operator inspects components for leaks pursuant to Sections
                   II.E.4.e. or II.E.4.f.

           III.F.2.d. For purposes of Sections III.F.2.a. through III.F.2.c., the estimated
                   uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the highest emitting
                   storage tank at the well production facility determines the
                   frequency at which inspections must be performed. If no storage
                   tanks storing oil or condensate are located at the well production
                   facility, owners or operators must rely on the facility emissions


                                                                                           253
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   (controlled actual VOC emissions from all permanent equipment,
                   including emissions from components determined by utilizing the
                   emission factors defined as less than 10,000 ppmv of Table 2-8 of
                   the 1995 EPA Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates).

           III.F.2.e. Beginning June 30, 2018, owners or operators of natural gas-
                   driven pneumatic controllers at natural gas compressor stations in
                   the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area must inspect pneumatic
                   controllers using an approved instrument monitoring method at
                   least:

                 III.F.2.e.(i)     Quarterly at natural gas compressor stations with
                            fugitive volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                            zero (0) and less than or equal to fifty (50) tons per year,
                            based on a rolling twelve-month total.

                 III.F.2.e.(ii)    Monthly at natural gas compressor stations with
                            fugitive volatile organic compounds greater than fifty (50)
                            tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total.

           III.F.2.f. Beginning calendar year 2020, owners or operators of natural
                   gas-driven pneumatic controllers at natural gas compressor
                   stations outside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area must inspect
                   pneumatic controllers using an approved instrument monitoring
                   method at least

                 III.F.2.f.(i)     Semi-annually at natural gas compressor stations with
                            fugitive volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                            zero (0) and less than or equal to twelve (12) tons per year,
                            based on a rolling twelve-month total.

                 III.F.2.f.(ii)    Quarterly at natural gas compressor stations with
                            fugitive volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                            twelve (12) and less than or equal to fifty (50) tons per year,
                            based on a rolling twelve-month total.



                                                                                           254
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  III.F.2.f.(iii)   Monthly at natural gas compressor stations with
                           fugitive volatile organic compounds greater than fifty (50)
                           tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total.

           III.F.2.g. Beginning calendar year 2023, owners or operators of natural
                   gas-driven pneumatic controllers at natural gas compressor
                   stations must inspect pneumatic controllers using an approved
                   instrument monitoring method at least

                  III.F.2.g.(i)     Quarterly at natural gas compressor stations with
                           fugitive volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                           zero (0) and less than or equal to fifty (50) tons per year,
                           based on a rolling twelve-month total.

                  III.F.2.g.(ii)    Bimonthly at natural gas compressor stations with
                           fugitive volatile organic compound emissions greater than
                           zero (0) and less than or equal to fifty (50) tons per year,
                           based on a rolling twelve-month total, and located within a
                           disproportionately impacted community or within 1,000 feet
                           of an occupied area.

                  III.F.2.g.(iii)   Monthly at natural gas compressor stations with
                           fugitive volatile organic compounds greater than fifty (50)
                           tons per year, based on a rolling twelve-month total.

           III.F.2.h. Beginning calendar year 2026, owners or operators of natural
                   gas-driven pneumatic controllers at natural gas compressor
                   stations must inspect pneumatic controllers using an approved
                   instrument monitoring method at the same frequency that the
                   owner or operator inspects components for leaks pursuant to
                   Sections II.E.3.

           III.F.2.i. For purposes of Sections III.F.2.d. and III.F.2.e., fugitive emissions
                   must be calculated using the emission factors of Table 2-4 of the
                   1995 EPA Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates



                                                                                          255
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   (Document EPA-453/R-95-017), or other Division approved
                   method.

           III.F.2.j. Beginning January 1, 2023, owners or operators of natural gas-
                   driven pneumatic controllers located at natural gas-processing
                   plants must inspect pneumatic controllers at least quarterly using
                   an approved instrument monitoring method..

           III.F.2.k. Where detectable emissions from the pneumatic controller are
                   observed, owners or operators must determine whether the
                   pneumatic controller is operating properly within five (5) working
                   days after detecting emissions. In making this determination,
                   owners or operators may use techniques other than approved
                   instrument monitoring methods

           III.F.2.l. For pneumatic controllers not operating properly, the owner or
                   operator must conduct enhanced response or follow manufacturer
                   specifications to return the pneumatic controller to proper
                   operation.

     III.F.3. Enhanced response and remonitoring

           III.F.3.a. Enhanced response must begin no later than five (5) working days
                   and the pneumatic controller returned to proper operation no later
                   than thirty (30) working days after determining the pneumatic
                   controller is not operating properly, unless parts are unavailable,
                   the equipment requires shutdown to complete enhanced
                   response, or other good cause exists. If parts are unavailable,
                   they must be ordered promptly and enhanced response
                   conducted within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the parts.
                   If shutdown is required, enhanced response must be conducted
                   during the next scheduled shutdown. If delay is attributable to
                   other good cause, enhanced response must be completed within
                   fifteen (15) working days after the cause of delay ceases to exist.




                                                                                       256
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           III.F.3.b. Within fifteen (15) working days of completion of enhanced
                    response, the owner or operator must verify the pneumatic
                    controller is operating properly. In verifying proper operation,
                    owners or operators may use techniques other than approved
                    instrument monitoring methods.

           III.F.3.c. Pneumatic controllers found emitting detectable emissions are not
                    subject to enforcement by the Division unless the owner or
                    operator fails to determine whether the pneumatic controller is
                    operating properly in accordance with Section III.F.2., perform any
                    necessary enhanced response in accordance with Section III.F.3.,
                    keep records in accordance with Section III.F.4., or submit reports
                    in accordance with Section III.F.5.

     III.F.4. Owners or operators must maintain the following records for a minimum of
           three (3) years and make records available to the Division upon request.

           III.F.4.a. The date, facility name, facility AIRS ID or facility location if the
                    facility does not have an AIRS ID, and approved instrument
                    monitoring method used for each inspection;

           III.F.4.b. A list of pneumatic controllers, including type, determined to be
                    not operating properly;

           III.F.4.c. For intermittent pneumatic controllers observed to have detectable
                    emissions but determined to be operating properly, a brief
                    explanation of the basis for concluding that the intermittent
                    pneumatic controller was operating properly. The explanation can
                    include, but is not limited to, an owner or operator’s standard
                    operating procedure detailing how to determine whether an
                    intermittent pneumatic controller is operating properly, or an
                    individual explanation;




                                                                                              257
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            III.F.4.d. The date(s) of enhanced response and a description of the
                    actions taken to return the pneumatic controller to proper
                    operation;

            III.F.4.e. The date the owner or operator verified the pneumatic controller
                    was returned to proper operation; and

            III.F.4.f. The delayed repair list, including the date and duration of any
                    period where the enhanced response was delayed beyond thirty
                    (30) days after determining the pneumatic controller is not
                    operating properly due to unavailable parts, required shutdown, or
                    delay for other good cause, the basis for the delay, and the
                    schedule for returning the pneumatic controller to proper
                    operation. Delay of enhanced response due to unavailable parts
                    must be reviewed, and a record kept of that review, by a
                    representative of the owner or operator with responsibility for
                    pneumatic controller inspection and enhanced response
                    compliance functions. This review will not be made by the
                    individual making the initial determination to place a part on the
                    delayed repair list.

     III.F.5. Owners or operators of pneumatic controllers at well production facilities
            or natural gas compressor stations must submit a single annual report on
            or before May 31st of each year (beginning May 31st, 2019 for facilities in
            the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area and May 31st, 2021, for facilities outside
            the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area) that includes, at a minimum, the following
            information regarding pneumatic controller inspection and enhanced
            response activities at their subject facilities conducted the previous
            calendar year. Owners or operators of pneumatic controllers at natural gas
            processing plants must submit the annual report on or before May 31st of
            each year beginning 2024.

            III.F.5.a. The total number and type of pneumatic controllers returned to
                    proper operation, the types of actions taken to return the


                                                                                         258
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                      pneumatic controllers to proper operation, and the facility type (by
                      inspection frequency tier of well production facility or natural gas
                      compressor station);

             III.F.5.b. The number and type of pneumatic controllers on the delayed
                      repair list as of December 31 broken out by the facility type (by
                      inspection frequency tier of well production facility or natural gas
                      compressor station), and the basis for each delay; and

             III.F.5.c. The record of all reviews conducted for delayed repairs due to
                      unavailable parts extending beyond 30 days for the previous
                      calendar year.

III.G. (Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities) Pneumatic pump
      methane emission reduction requirements

      III.G.1.      Applicability

             III.G.1.a.    This Section III.G. applies to natural gas-driven diaphragm
                      and piston pumps located at well production facilities and natural
                      gas compressor stations upstream of natural gas processing
                      plants and at natural gas processing plants.

             III.G.1.b.    Pumps that are not driven by natural gas and pumps that are
                      not in operation 90 days or more per calendar year are not subject
                      to the requirements of this Section III.G.

             III.G.1.c.    Sections III.G.2. to III.G.7 do not apply prior to May 1, 2026.

      III.G.2.      If not subject to the pneumatic pump requirements in Section I.K.1.,
                    owners or operators must comply with the following requirements
             beginning May 1, 2026.

             III.G.2.a.    Owners or operators of natural gas-driven diaphragm and
                      piston pumps used at facilities with access to electrical power, or
                      at facilities that do not have access to electrical power but have
                      three or more natural gas-driven pumps, must design and operate



                                                                                          259
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                    their facilities with no emissions from natural gas-driven
                    diaphragm and piston pumps.

           III.G.2.b.     Owners or operators of natural gas-driven diaphragm and
                    piston pumps used at facilities that do not have access to
                    electrical power and have less than three natural gas-driven
                    pumps must:

                  III.G.2.b.(i)    Route emissions from the pump to a process if a
                          vapor recovery unit is on site; or

                  III.G.2.b.(ii)   If a vapor recovery unit is not on site, reduce methane
                          emissions from the pump by 95% by routing the emissions to
                          a control device; or

                  III.G.2.b.(iii) If a vapor recovery unit is not on site, and there is no
                          control device capable of reducing methane emissions from
                          the pump by 95%, route emissions from the pump to an on-
                          site control device, and certify that there is no vapor recovery
                          unit or control device capable of achieving a 95% reduction
                          onsite; or

                  III.G.2.b.(iv) Certify that there is no vapor recovery unit or control
                          device on site, if applicable. If a vapor recovery unit or
                          control device is subsequently installed on site, the owner or
                          operator must route emissions from the pump to the vapor
                          recovery unit or control device within thirty (30) days of
                          startup of the vapor recovery unit or control device.

           III.G.2.c.     Pump emissions routed to a process or control device must
                    be routed through a closed vent system that is designed to
                    capture and route all gases, vapors, and fumes.

           III.G.2.d.     Owners or operators are not required to install a vapor
                    recovery unit or control device solely for the purpose of
                    compliance with Sections III.G.2.b.(i) or III.G.2.b.(ii).



                                                                                        260
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            III.G.2.e.     Owners or operators may prepare technical infeasibility
                     assessments if it is technically infeasible to route the pump
                     emissions to an existing control device or process due to, but not
                     limited to, safety considerations, distance from the process or
                     control device, pressure losses and differentials in the closed vent
                     system, and the ability of the process or control device to handle
                     the pump emissions. This technical infeasibility assessment must
                     be prepared under the direction or supervision of a qualified
                     professional engineer or in-house engineer. The qualified
                     professional engineer or in-house engineer must certify and
                     submit the technical infeasibility assessment to the Division.

            III.G.2.f. If the control device or process is subsequently removed or no
                     longer available, the owner or operator must comply with Section
                     III.G.2.b.(iv).

     III.G.3.      Closed vent system requirements

            III.G.3.a.     A qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer
                     with expertise on the design and operation of the closed vent
                     system must certify an assessment that the closed vent system is
                     of sufficient design and capacity to ensure that all gases, vapors,
                     and fumes are routed to the process or control device and the
                     process or control device is of sufficient design and capacity to
                     accommodate all emissions from the pump.

            III.G.3.b.     If the closed vent system contains one or more bypass
                     devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases,
                     vapors, or fumes from being routed to a process, owners or
                     operators must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow
                     indicator at the inlet of the bypass device(s).

                   III.G.3.b.(i)   The flow indicator must be capable and set to take
                           readings at least once every fifteen (15) minutes at the inlet
                           to the bypass device and sound an alarm, or remote


                                                                                         261
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          notification, when the bypass device is open such that the
                          stream is being, or could be, diverted away from the control
                          device or process and sent to the atmosphere, or

                  III.G.3.b.(ii)   The bypass device valve must be secured at the inlet
                          to the bypass device in the non-diverting position using a
                          car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.

                  III.G.3.b.(iii) The bypass device valve must be visually inspected
                          at least once every month to verify that the vent stream is
                          not diverted through the bypass device.

                  III.G.3.b.(iv) Low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents,
                          open-ended valves or lines, and safety devices are not
                          subject to the requirements of Section III.G.3.b.(i) and
                          III.G.3.b.(ii).

           III.G.3.c.     The owner or operator must inspect closed vent systems
                    during the leak detection and repair inspections conducted
                    pursuant to Part B, Section II.E. for well production facilities and
                    natural gas compressor stations and Part B, Section II.I. for
                    natural gas-processing plants. If emissions are detected in any
                    inspection, the owner or operator must comply with the applicable
                    repair requirements in accordance with Part B, Section II.E.6. for
                    well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations, and
                    Part B, Section II.I. for natural gas processing plants.

           III.G.3.d.     The owner or operator must conduct an initial leak detection
                    and repair inspection of the closed vent system within thirty (30)
                    days after routing emissions through the closed vent system and
                    repair any emissions detected.

           III.G.3.e.     The owner or operator must conduct annual visual
                    inspections of the closed vent system for defects that could result
                    in air emissions.



                                                                                       262
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.G.4.      Control device requirements

            III.G.4.a.     Unless exempt as provided in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart
                     OOOOb, Section 60.5413b(a) (December 3, 2025), owner or
                     operators must conduct performance tests on control devices in
                     accordance with the requirements in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart
                     OOOOb, Section 60.5413b(b) (December 3, 2025).

            III.G.4.b.     The owner or operator of each combustion control device
                     must:

                   III.G.4.b.(i)    Ensure each device is maintained so as to prevent
                           detectable emissions and is operated following the
                           manufacturer's written operating instructions, procedures,
                           and maintenance schedule to ensure good air pollution
                           control practices for minimizing emissions.

                   III.G.4.b.(ii)   Maintain the inlet gas flow rate equal to or greater
                           than the minimum inlet gas flow rate and equal to or less
                           than the maximum inlet gas flow rate specified by the
                           manufacturer or determined during the most recent
                           performance test.

                   III.G.4.b.(iii) Install and operate a continuous burning pilot or
                           combustion flame.

                   III.G.4.b.(iv) Operate devices with no visible emissions, as
                           determined pursuant to monthly EPA Method 22 (January
                           14, 2019) tests. Devices failing the visible emissions test
                           must be returned to compliant operation by following the
                           manufacturer’s repair instructions, if available, or best
                           combustion engineering practices. Following return to
                           operation, each device must pass an EPA Method 22
                           (January 14, 2019) visual observation.




                                                                                           263
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 III.G.4.b.(v) Install and operate the continuous parameter
                       monitoring systems in accordance with 40 CFR Part 60,
                       Subpart OOOOb, Sections 60.5417b(a) and 60.5417b(c)
                       through 60.5417b(i) (December 3, 2025).

                 III.G.4.b.(vi) Conduct weekly visual inspections that must include,
                       at a minimum

                       III.G.4.b.(vi)(A)     Inspection or monitoring of each
                              combustion device to ensure that it is operating,
                              including that the pilot light is lit and the auto-igniter is
                              properly functioning.

                       III.G.4.b.(vi)(B)     Inspection or monitoring of each
                              combustion device to ensure that the valves for the
                              piping of gas to the pilot light are open and functioning
                              properly.

                       III.G.4.b.(vi)(C)     Inspection or monitoring of each
                              combustion device to ensure the burner tray is not
                              visibly clogged.

                       III.G.4.b.(vi)(D)     Inspection of each combustion device
                              for the presence or absence of smoke. If smoke is
                              observed, either the equipment must be immediately
                              shut-in to investigate the potential cause for smoke
                              and perform repairs, as necessary, or EPA Method 22
                              (January 14, 2019) must be conducted to determine
                              whether visible emissions are present for a period of
                              at least one (1) minute in fifteen (15) minutes.

                       III.G.4.b.(vi)(E)     Inspection or monitoring of each vapor
                              recovery unit to ensure that the unit is operating and
                              that vapors are being routed to the unit.




                                                                                       264
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           III.G.4.b.(vi)(F)       Inspection or monitoring of air pollution
                                    control equipment to ensure that valves for the piping
                                    of gas to the air pollution control equipment are open.

                           III.G.4.b.(vi)(G)       Recording the flow meter readings or
                                    pressure actuator system data, once installed
                                    pursuant to Section II.B.2.g.(i). For flow meter
                                    readings, this must include the maximum and
                                    minimum measured flow rate since the previous
                                    weekly visual inspection. For pressure actuator
                                    system data, this must include the maximum and
                                    minimum measured pressures while the actuator
                                    valve is open since the previous weekly visual
                                    inspection. An owner or operator may use automation
                                    to continuously record flow and/or pressure to the
                                    enclosed combustion devices(s) for which flow meters
                                    or pressure actuator system are required under
                                    Section II.B.2.g.

     III.G.5.      Recordkeeping

            III.G.5.a.     Owners or operators must maintain the following records for
                     at least five (5) years and make them available to the Division
                     upon request.

                   III.G.5.a.(i)    Records identifying each natural gas-driven pump for
                           which vapors are routed to a process or control device
                           through a closed vent system, including the name and AIRS
                           ID of the facility where the pump is located.

                   III.G.5.a.(ii)   If applicable, records of the certification(s) by a
                           qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer that the
                           closed vent system is of sufficient design and capacity to
                           route pneumatic controller emissions to a process, pursuant
                           to Section III.G.3.a.


                                                                                          265
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   III.G.5.a.(iii) For inspections of closed vent systems and self-
                          contained pneumatic controllers, as applicable, leak
                          detection and repair records as required by Part B, Section
                          II.E.8. for well production facilities and natural gas
                          compressor stations and Part B, Section II.I. for natural gas
                          processing plants.

                   III.G.5.a.(iv) If applicable, for bypass devices used in closed vent
                          systems, records of readings from the flow indicator, each
                          inspection of the seal or closure mechanism, and the date
                          and time of each instance the alarm is sounded.

                   III.G.5.a.(v) Records of control device performance tests.

                   III.G.5.a.(vi) Records of control device operating parameter values
                          and operating parameter monitoring.

                   III.G.5.a.(vii) Records of enclosed combustion device alternative
                          test methods.

                   III.G.5.a.(viii) Records of the certification that there is no vapor
                          recovery unit or control device installed onsite by the
                          compliance date, if applicable, pursuant to Section
                          III.G.2.b.(iv).

                   III.G.5.a.(ix) Records of weekly visual inspections, pursuant to
                          Section III.G.4.b.(vi).

            III.G.5.b.    Any records required to be maintained by this section may
                     be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain
                     electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to
                     make records, data, and reports available upon request to the
                     Division as part of an onsite compliance evaluation.

     III.G.6.      Reporting

                   III.G.6.a.     On or before June 30, 2026, and by June 30 each
                          year thereafter, owners or operators must submit annual


                                                                                          266
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       reports for the previous calendar year, in a Division-
                       approved format, that contains the following information:

                       III.G.6.a.(i)     Company name, physical street address,
                               facility names, the name and contact information of
                               the company representative, for reporting purposes,
                               the date of submission, and the period covered by the
                               report.

                       III.G.6.a.(ii)    An identification of each facility complying with
                               Section III.G.2. by routing emissions from natural gas-
                               driven diaphragm and piston pumps to either a
                               process or control device, and for each facility, an
                               identification of each natural gas-driven pump and the
                               applicable method of compliance.

                       III.G.6.a.(iii) The certifications specified in Sections
                               III.G.2.b.(iii) and III.G.2.b.(iv), if applicable.

                       III.G.6.a.(iv) For each facility, as applicable, identification of
                               any changes to methods of compliance with Section
                               III.G.2., including documentation of applicable pump
                               emission control requirements and certifications.

                       III.G.6.a.(v) For each pump at the applicable facility
                               complying with the requirements of Section III.G.2. by
                               routing emissions to a process using a closed vent
                               system, the dates of inspections required under
                               Sections III.G.3.d. and III.G.3.e. Leak detection and
                               repair records for closed vent systems should be
                               reported pursuant to Part B, Section II.E.8. for well
                               production facilities and natural gas compressor
                               stations and Part B, Section II.I for natural gas
                               processing plants.




                                                                                       267
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            III.G.6.a.(vi) For closed vent systems that use bypass
                                   devices, the date and time of each bypass device
                                   alarm sounded and any instance the valve was
                                   unsecured or in the diverting position, pursuant to
                                   Sections III.G.3.b.(i) and III.G.3.b.(ii).

                            III.G.6.a.(vii) For each deviation that occurred during the
                                   reporting period, the date and time the deviation
                                   began, the duration of the deviation in hours, and a
                                   description of the deviation. If no deviations occurred
                                   during the reporting period, owners or operators must
                                   include a statement that no deviations occurred
                                   during the reporting period.

                            III.G.6.a.(viii) The date and results of performance tests
                                   conducted on control devices, if applicable.

      III.G.7.      As an alternative to the emission control, inspection, repair, and
             recordkeeping provisions described in Sections III.G.2. through III.G.6.,
             the owner or operator may comply with natural gas-driven pump emission
             control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of 40 CFR
             Part 60, Subpart OOOOb (March 8, 2024).

IV.   (State Only) Control of Emissions from Natural Gas Transmission and
Storage Segment
IV.A. Definitions

      IV.A.1. “Approved instrument monitoring method,” means an infra-red camera,
             EPA Method 21 (August 3, 2017), or other Division approved instrument
             based monitoring method or program. If an owner or operator elects to
             use Division approved continuous emission monitoring, the Division may
             approve a streamlined inspection and reporting program for such
             operations, including approved instrument monitoring method and/or AVO
             inspections.



                                                                                          268
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     IV.A.2. “Best management practice” (BMP) means a demonstrated and
           commercially available or innovative emission-reducing technology or
           work practice.

     IV.A.3. “Best management practices plan” (BMP plan) means a written plan that
           includes, but is not limited to, each natural gas transmission and storage
           segment owner or operator’s planned and implemented BMPs to reduce
           methane emissions from its facilities within the natural gas transmission
           and storage segment.

     IV.A.4. “Component” means each pump seal, flange, pressure relief device
           (including thief hatches or other openings on a controlled storage tank),
           connector, and valve that contains or contacts a process stream with
           hydrocarbons, except for components in process streams consisting of
           glycol, amine, produced water, or methanol.

     IV.A.5. “Connector” means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to
           connect two pipes or a pipe and a piece of process equipment or that
           close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined
           fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are
           not considered connectors.

     IV.A.6. “Crude oil and natural gas source category” means (1) crude oil or
           condensate production, which includes the well and extends to the point of
           custody transfer to the crude oil transmission pipeline or any other forms
           of transportation; and (2) natural gas production, processing, transmission,
           and storage, which include the well and extend to, but do not include, the
           local distribution company custody transfer station.

     IV.A.7. “Local distribution company (LDC) custody transfer station” means a
           metering station where the LDC receives a natural gas supply from an
           upstream supplier, which may be an interstate transmission pipeline or a
           local natural gas producer, for delivery to customers through the LDC's
           intrastate transmission or distribution lines.




                                                                                     269
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     IV.A.8. “Natural gas transmission and storage segment” (segment) includes
            onshore natural gas transmission pipelines, onshore natural gas
            transmission compression, underground natural gas storage, and liquefied
            natural gas (LNG) storage, as these terms are defined in 40 CFR Part 98,
            Section 98.230 (October 22, 2015), that are physically located in
            Colorado.

     IV.A.9. “Natural gas transmission and storage segment Colorado throughput”
            (segment throughput) means the total volume of natural gas, as adjusted
            for methane, transported through transmission pipelines in Colorado as
            reported to the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Energy Information
            Administration (EIA) for Form 176, excluding net volumes stored as
            liquefied natural gas or in underground storage facilities.

     IV.A.10.      “Natural gas transmission and storage segment emissions
            inventory protocol” (inventory protocol) means the requirements by which
            natural gas transmission and storage segment owners or operators will
            quantify and report methane, ethane, carbon monoxide (CO), carbon
            dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and volatile
            organic compound (VOC) emissions. The protocol will specify the segment
            facilities and types of activity data collected, emissions quantification
            methodologies, throughput calculation methodologies, criteria for
            determining whether events are beyond the control of the owner or
            operator, and the process for designating and protecting confidential
            business information (CBI), consistent with Colorado law.

     IV.A.11.      “Performance-based program” means a program of BMPs
            implemented and documented by each natural gas transmission and
            storage segment owner or operator to reduce methane emissions in order
            to achieve the system-wide emissions intensity target.

     IV.A.12.      “Steering committee” means five members approved by the
            Division to serve as a technical working group for developing program
            guidance documents and evaluating progress against the system-wide


                                                                                        270
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           emissions intensity target. The committee members will include two
           representatives from natural gas transmission and storage segment
           owners or operators (or industry trade organizations representing owners
           or operators), two members representing the general public (including but
           not limited to environmental organizations, local government groups, or
           citizens), and one Division member.

     IV.A.13.     “Segment-wide emissions intensity” means the natural gas
           transmission and storage segment methane emissions divided by the
           natural gas transmission and storage segment throughput.

     IV.A.14.     “Segment-wide emissions intensity target” (segment-wide target)
           means the target established by the steering committee reflected as
           annual segment-wide methane emissions from Colorado’s natural gas
           transmission and storage segment divided by the annual natural gas
           transmission and storage segment Colorado throughput.

     IV.A.15.     “Storage vessel” means a tank or other vessel that contains an
           accumulation of hydrocarbon liquids or produced water and is constructed
           primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel,
           fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support. A tank or other
           vessel is not considered a storage vessel for purposes of this Section IV. if
           it has been removed from service until such time as the tank or other
           vessel has been returned to service. A tank or other vessel is considered
           removed from service when it has been completely emptied, excluding
           bottom clingage or liquid in pools due to floor irregularity, and degased
           such that it no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water, or
           intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. Storage vessel does not include vessels
           that are skid-mounted or permanently attached to something that is mobile
           (such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships) and are intended to be located
           at the site for less than 180 consecutive days; process vessels such as
           surge control vessels, bottom receivers, or knockout vessels; or pressure




                                                                                       271
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without
           emissions to the atmosphere.

     IV.A.16.     “Storage vessel designated facility” means a tank battery that has
           the potential for methane emissions equal to or greater than 20 tons per
           year, as calculated pursuant to Sections IV.A.12.a. through IV.A.12.c. and
           determined within sixty (60) days after becoming subject to Section
           IV.B.4.a.(i). The determination may take into account requirements under
           a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other
           requirement established under a federal, state, or local authority that
           includes the elements specified in 40 CFR Sections 60.5365b(e)(2)(i)(A)
           through (e)(2)(i)(F) (July 31, 2025).

           IV.A.16.a.    The potential for methane emissions must be calculated as
                   the cumulative emissions from all storage vessels within the tank
                   battery using a generally accepted model or calculation
                   methodology that accounts for flashing, working, and breathing
                   losses and based on either the throughput to the tank battery in a
                   legally and practicably enforceable limit or the projected maximum
                   average daily throughput.

           IV.A.16.b.    Maximum average daily throughput is determined using a
                   generally accepted engineering model (e.g., volumetric
                   condensate rates from a tank battery based on the maximum gas
                   throughput capacity of each producing facility) to project the
                   maximum average daily throughput for the tank battery.

           IV.A.16.c.    For storage vessels not subject to a legally and practicably
                   enforceable limit, any vapor from the storage vessel that is
                   recovered and routed to a process through a closed vent system
                   designed and operated as specified in Part B, Section II.B.6. and
                   a vapor recovery unit designed and operated as specified in Part
                   B, Section II.B.7. is not required to be included in the
                   determination of potential for methane emissions.


                                                                                     272
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             IV.A.16.d.    A storage vessel with a capacity greater than 100,000
                     gallons used to recycle water that has been passed through two
                     stage separation is not a storage vessel designated facility.

             IV.A.16.e.    A tank battery with the potential for methane emissions
                     below 20 tons per year is not a storage vessel designated facility
                     provided the owner or operator keeps records of the potential for
                     emissions calculation for the life of the storage vessel or until such
                     time the tank battery becomes a storage vessel designated facility
                     because the potential for methane emissions meets or exceeds
                     20 tons per year.

      IV.A.17.      “Tank battery” means a group of all storage vessels that are
             manifolded together for liquid transfer. A tank battery may consist of a
             single storage vessel if only one storage vessel is present.

IV.B. Beginning January 1, 2020, each segment owner or operator must participate in
      this performance based program to reduce segment-wide methane emissions.

      IV.B.1. By April 1, 2020, a steering committee charter and the steering committee
             members will be approved by the Division.

      IV.B.2. By September 30, 2020, the Division will publish the inventory protocol
             and any associated program guidance documents developed by the
             steering committee.

      IV.B.3. By December 31, 2020, each segment owner or operator must develop a
             company-specific BMP plan. The BMP plan must contain each element
             from the BMP plan template chapter of the program guidance document,
             which will include, but is not limited to, a list of information the owner or
             operator must collect to demonstrate the BMPs performed. By December
             31st of each year (beginning December 31st, 2021), each owner or
             operator must review and update, as appropriate, its company-specific
             BMP plan and document in the BMP plan any changes.

      IV.B.4. Beginning January 1, 2021, each segment owner or operator will



                                                                                         273
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           IV.B.4.a.     Implement company specific BMP plans.

                  IV.B.4.a.(i)   Beginning January 1, 2027, or on the timing otherwise
                         specified, segment owners or operators must comply with
                         the following presumptive BMPs for their natural gas and
                         transmission storage segment equipment located in the
                         crude oil and natural gas source category. Equipment
                         specified in Sections IV.B.4.a.(i)(A) through IV.B.4.a.(i)(F)
                         that are subject to the requirements in 40 CFR Part 60,
                         Subpart OOOOb (December 3, 2025) are not subject to this
                         Section IV.B.4.a.(i). Equipment subject to 40 CFR Part 60,
                         Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025) or Subpart OOOOa (July 31,
                         2025) must comply with the requirements in Sections
                         IV.B.4.a.(i)(A) through IV.B.4.a.(i)(F) beginning twelve (12)
                         months after EPA approves Colorado’s 111(d) Plan for Crude
                         Oil and Natural Gas Facilities.

                         IV.B.4.a.(i)(A) Owners or operators of compressor stations
                                 must inspect components for leaks using an approved
                                 instrument monitoring method at least quarterly (with
                                 at least one inspection conducted within the first 90
                                 days after the compressor station becomes subject to
                                 Section IV.B.4.a.(i)) and complete repairs,
                                 recordkeeping, and reporting in accordance with the
                                 leak detection and repair requirements in Regulation
                                 Number 7, Part B, Sections II.E.5. through II.E.9.,
                                 except that the first annual report in Section II.E.9. is
                                 not required until June 30, 2028, or the year after the
                                 compressor station becomes subject to Section
                                 IV.B.4.a.(i).

                         IV.B.4.a.(i)(B) Owners or operators of each storage vessel
                                 designated facility must reduce methane emissions by



                                                                                         274
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              95% and conduct the inspections in Regulation
                              Number 7, Part B, Section II.C.1.d. (except beginning
                              on the date the storage vessel becomes subject to
                              Section IV.B.4.a.(i)), operate the storage tank(s) in
                              accordance with Part B, Section II.C.2.a, and maintain
                              the records in accordance with Part B, Section II.C.3.
                              Owners or operators must also keep records of the
                              date of removal from service, as defined in Section
                              IV.A.15., of any tank or other vessel.

                       IV.B.4.a.(i)(C)      Owners or operators of each single wet
                              and dry seal centrifugal compressor must limit
                              emissions from compressor seals in accordance with
                              Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections II.J.1.a.
                              through II.J.1.d.; repair compressor seals in
                              accordance with Part B, Section II.J.1.e.; maintain
                              records in accordance with Part B, Section II.J.1.f.;
                              and submit annual reports in accordance with Part B,
                              Section II.J.1.g., except that the first annual reports
                              are not required until June 30, 2028, or the year after
                              the centrifugal compressor becomes subject to
                              Section IV.B.4.a.(i).

                       IV.B.4.a.(i)(D)      Owners or operators of each single
                              reciprocating compressor must limit emissions from
                              compressor cylinders in accordance with Regulation
                              Number 7, Part B, Sections II.K.1.a. and II.K.1.b.;
                              repair compressor cylinders in accordance with Part
                              B, Section II.K.1.c.; maintain records in accordance
                              with Part B, Section II.K.1.d.; and submit annual
                              reports in accordance with Part B, Section II.K.1.e.,
                              except that the first annual reports are not required



                                                                                      275
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                             until June 30, 2028, or the year after the reciprocating
                             compressor becomes subject to Section IV.B.4.a.(i).

                       IV.B.4.a.(i)(E) Beginning January 1, 2029, owners or
                             operators of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers
                             located at a compressor station must design and
                             operate pneumatic controllers to have no emissions in
                             accordance with the methods specified in Part B,
                             Sections III.C.5.b.(i)(A) through III.C.5.b.(i)(D); comply
                             with the closed vent system requirements in Part B,
                             Section III.C.5.c.(iii), if applicable; maintain records in
                             accordance with Part B, Section III.C.5.c.(v).; and
                             submit annual reports in accordance with Part B,
                             Section III.C.5.c.(vi)., except that the first annual
                             report in Section III.C.5.c.(vi) is not required until June
                             30, 2030. Pneumatic controllers subject to 40 CFR
                             Part 60, Subpart OOOO (July 31, 2025) or Subpart
                             OOOOa (July 31, 2025) must comply with the
                             requirements in Sections IV.B.4.a.(i)(E) beginning
                             twelve (12) months after EPA approves Colorado’s
                             111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities
                             but no earlier than beginning January 1, 2029.

                             IV.B.4.a.(i)(E)(1)    Pneumatic controllers that
                                    function as emergency shutdown devices are
                                    not subject to Section IV.B.4.a.(i)(E) but must
                                    be tagged in accordance with Part B, Section
                                    III.C.5.a.(ii)(A) by January 1, 2029, or by the
                                    date the pneumatic controller becomes subject
                                    to Section IV.B.4.a.(i)(E)(1).

                             IV.B.4.a.(i)(E)(2)    If applicable, self-contained
                                    pneumatic controllers must be inspected during



                                                                                     276
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    the leak detection and repair inspections
                                    conducted pursuant to Section IV.B.4.a.(i)(A). If
                                    emissions are detected in any inspection, the
                                    owner or operator must comply with the repair
                                    requirements in Part B, Section II.E.6.

                             IV.B.4.a.(i)(E)(3)   As an alternative, owners or
                                    operators may comply with Part B, Section
                                    III.C.5.d.

                       IV.B.4.a.(i)(F) Owners or operators of natural gas-driven
                             pneumatic pumps located at a compressor station
                             must design and operate pneumatic pumps to have
                             no emissions in accordance with the methods
                             specified in Part B, Sections III.G.2.a. through
                             III.G.2.f.; comply with the closed vent system and
                             bypass requirements in Part B, Section III.G.3., if
                             applicable; comply with the control device
                             requirements in Part B, Section III.G.4., if applicable;
                             maintain records in accordance with Part B, Section
                             III.G.5.; and submit annual reports in accordance with
                             Part B, Section III.G.6., except that the first annual
                             report in Section III.G.6. is not required until June 30,
                             2028, or the year after the natural gas-driven
                             pneumatic pump becomes subject to Section
                             IV.B.4.a.(i).

                             IV.B.4.a.(i)(F)(1)   Pumps that are not driven by
                                    natural gas and pumps that are not in
                                    operation 90 days or more per calendar year
                                    are not subject to the requirements of this
                                    Section IV.B.4.a.(i)(F).




                                                                                      277
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                     IV.B.4.a.(i)(F)(2)    As an alternative, owners or
                                            operators may comply with Part B, Section
                                            III.G.7.

                              IV.B.4.a.(i)(G)       Reserved.

                              IV.B.4.a.(i)(H)       Reserved.

                IV.B.4.b.     Collect emissions inventory data in accordance with the
                        inventory protocol and its company-specific BMP plan.

      IV.B.5. By May 1, 2022, the segment owners or operators will select a third-party
                contractor from a pool of qualified applicants to receive, safeguard, and
                aggregate company-specific reports as described in Sections IV.D.3. and
                IV.D.4. The steering committee will establish criteria for the selection of the
                third-party contractor. The segment owners and operators will use a
                competitive bidding process to solicit applications from contractors who
                meet the criteria and will provide an opportunity for the steering committee
                to reject unqualified applicants.

      IV.B.6. By October 1, 2023, the steering committee will determine the segment-
                wide emissions intensity target using the 2021 and 2022 emissions
                inventory data. In developing the initial or updated segment-wide
                emissions intensity target and evaluating the program, the steering
                committee may request non-company specific information from the
                Division (in accordance with the Colorado Opens Record Act) or the third-
                party contractor to assist in setting such target or such evaluation. The
                steering committee may ask companies to explain emission factors and
                methodologies used to calculate or measure emissions.

IV.C. The segment-wide emissions intensity target must first be achieved by January
      1, 2025, based on the 2024 reporting year.

      IV.C.1.          By October 1 of each year (beginning October 1, 2025), the
                steering committee will submit a compliance certification to the Division




                                                                                            278
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                that the segment achieved the segment-wide emissions intensity target for
                the prior calendar year.

      IV.C.2.           If the steering committee cannot certify compliance with the
                segment-wide emissions intensity target, the steering committee will
                develop a plan (which may include amendments to program guidance
                documents) and timeline for the segment to achieve compliance with the
                segment-wide emissions intensity target.

      IV.C.3.           Beginning January 1, 2026, and every three (3) years thereafter if
                appropriate, the steering committee will assess the segment-wide
                emissions intensity target for continual improvement.

IV.D. Recordkeeping and reporting

      IV.D.1.           The Division will provide an update on the development of this
                program and initial implementation efforts to the Air Quality Control
                Commission during a scheduled Commission meeting on or after January
                2021.

      IV.D.2.           Segment owners or operators must maintain BMP plans and
                emissions inventory reports for a period of five (5) years and make records
                available to the Division upon request.

      IV.D.3.           By June 30 of each year (beginning June 30, 2022), owners or
                operators of the natural gas transmission and storage segment will submit
                company-wide reports to the third-party contractor.

                IV.D.3.a.     Emissions claimed to be beyond the control of the owner or
                         operator, using the criteria and methods established by the
                         steering committee, must be included in the company-wide report
                         but will not be used to set or determine compliance with the
                         segment-wide emissions intensity target.

                IV.D.3.b.     Emissions and emission reductions associated with any
                         requirements of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
                         Administration (PHMSA), the Colorado Public Utilities Commission


                                                                                         279
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       (CPUC), and/or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
                       (FERC) must be included in the report and used for purposes of
                       calculating compliance with the system-wide emissions intensity
                       target, unless they qualify under Section IV.D.3.a., but this Section
                       IV. does not supersede or alter these agencies applicable
                       regulations or requirements.

               IV.D.3.c.    Reserved.

     IV.D.4.          The third-party contractor must aggregate the company-wide
               reports into a segment-wide report and provide it to the steering
               committee by August 15 of each year (beginning August 15, 2022) on a
               form developed by the steering committee and approved by the Division.
               The segment-wide report must include, at a minimum

               IV.D.4.a.    The segment-wide emissions, apportioned by county,

               IV.D.4.b.    A report of the numbers and types of events subject to
                       Section IV.D.3.a. and the segment-wide emissions resulting from
                       each type of event.

               IV.D.4.c.    The BMPs implemented to mitigate or avoid emissions and a
                       description of how the BMPs mitigate, reduce, and/or avoid
                       emissions.

               IV.D.4.d.    The segment-wide segment throughput.

               IV.D.4.e.    The segment-wide emissions intensity. If the steering
                       committee determines that one or more types of events reported
                       under Section IV.D.4.b. were not beyond the control of the owner
                       or operator, the steering committee will revise the segment-wide
                       emissions intensity calculation to include the methane emissions
                       from those events.

     IV.D.5.          Segment owners or operators must submit an annual certification to
               the Division by June 30 of each year (beginning June 30, 2021) that
               includes


                                                                                        280
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IV.D.5.a.      A certification that the company-specific BMP plan was
                         developed or reviewed in accordance with Section IV.B.3.

                 IV.D.5.b.      A certification that the company-wide report was submitted to
                         the third-party contractor in accordance with Section IV.D.3.

                 IV.D.5.c.      Beginning in 2022, a certification of company BMP plan
                         compliance in accordance with Section IV.B.4., including

                        IV.D.5.c.(i)    The company’s implementation of the BMPs in the
                                company-specific BMP plan.

                        IV.D.5.c.(ii)   Instances of non-conformance with the company-
                                specific BMP plan, reason(s) for non-conformance, and any
                                modifications of the applicable element(s) of the BMP plan.

                        IV.D.5.c.(iii) Any use of alternative emission reduction approaches
                                not specified in the company-specific BMP plan.

                 IV.D.5.d.      With each submission under Sections IV.D.5.a. through
                         IV.D.5.c., a certification by a responsible official that, based on
                         information and belief after reasonable inquiry, the statements and
                         information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.

       IV.D.6.          The Division may provide an update briefing to the Air Quality
                 Control Commission during a scheduled Commission meeting on or after
                 October 1 of each year (beginning October 1, 2022). The update briefing
                 will include any assessment of the segment-wide target, as specified in
                 Section IV.C.3.

V.     (State Only) Oil and Natural Gas Operations Emissions Inventory
Annual emissions reporting pursuant to this Section V. is completed by filing an
Emissions Reporting Notice.

V.A.   Applicability

       V.A.1. On or before June 30th, 2021 (and on June 30th each year thereafter), the
                 owner or operator of oil and natural gas operations and equipment at or



                                                                                               281
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             upstream of a natural gas processing plant in Colorado must submit a
             single Emissions Reporting Notice that includes actual emissions and
             specified information in the Division-approved report format.

       V.A.2. On or before June 30th, 2022 (and on June 30th each year thereafter), the
             owner or operator or class II disposal well facilities that are not subject to
             reporting under Section IV. must submit a single Emissions Reporting
             Notice that includes actual emissions and specified information in the
             Division-approved report format.

       V.A.3. In order for a midstream company to generate credits for a particular
             vintage year pursuant to Section VII., the midstream company must
             submit the Emissions Reporting Notice required in Section V.A.1. by
             March 31, of the reporting year in which they want to participate in the
             GHG credit market.

V.B.   General reporting requirements

       V.B.1. The following information must be reported in accordance with Section
             V.A.

             V.B.1.a. Company name, physical street address, and name and contact
                      information of the company representative, for reporting purposes.

             V.B.1.b. The date of submittal and the year covered by the report.

             V.B.1.c. A list of the activities or equipment, as specified in Section V.C.,
                      for which emissions are reported. Beginning with the June 2022
                      report for the calendar year 2021, owners or operators must
                      include whether the activities or equipment are located in a
                      disproportionately impacted community.

                    V.B.1.c.(i)   Beginning with the June 2026 report for the calendar
                           year 2025, disproportionately impacted community is defined
                           as in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. (2023).
                           These communities are identified as any census block group
                           identified in the Disproportionately Impacted Community


                                                                                         282
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         Map (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile
                         home communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”,
                         “People of color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-
                         burdened population above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated
                         population above 20%”, and “Colorado EnviroScreen
                         percentile score above 80”.

           V.B.1.d. Beginning with the June 2022 report for calendar year 2021, for
                   well production facilities, a list of each well production facility, all
                   associated wells by API number and associated location ID as
                   assigned by the Energy and Carbon Management Commission,
                   and the total calendar year production of hydrocarbon liquids, and
                   natural gas as well as throughput of produced water.

           V.B.1.e. Repealed.

           V.B.1.f. Repealed.

           V.B.1.g. The actual emissions of VOCs, NOx, N2O, CO2, CO, methane,
                   and ethane for each activity or equipment listed in Section V.C.
                   per facility, or per pipeline between facilities where the pipeline is
                   not located at a stationary source, in accordance with Division-
                   accepted calculation methods.

                 V.B.1.g.(i)    Repealed.

                 V.B.1.g.(ii)   Beginning with the June 2025 report for calendar year
                         2024, the report must include the monthly actual emission
                         from each activity or equipment.

           V.B.1.h. Beginning with the June 2027 report for calendar year 2026:

                 V.B.1.h.(i)    The actual emissions of each toxic air contaminant
                         (TAC) listed in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Appendix C
                         from each activity or equipment per year, listed in Section
                         V.C., unless exempted in V.B.1.h.(iii), per facility, or per
                         pipeline between facilities where the pipeline is not located


                                                                                         283
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         at a stationary source, in accordance with Division-accepted
                         calculation methods.

                 V.B.1.h.(ii)    The actual emissions of PM2.5, PM10, and SO2 from
                         each activity or equipment per year, listed in Section V.C.,
                         unless exempted in V.B.1.h.(iii), per facility, or per pipeline
                         between facilities where the pipeline between facilities where
                         the pipeline is not located at a stationary source, in
                         accordance with Division-accepted calculation methods.

                         V.B.1.h.(ii)(A) For TAC emissions that are calculated using
                                 PM2.5 or PM10, the actual PM2.5 and PM10 used in
                                 the calculations must be reported. Otherwise, PM2.5
                                 or PM10 emissions can be reported according to the
                                 thresholds in V.B.1.h(ii)(B).

                         V.B.1.h.(ii)(B) For PM2.5 or PM10 and SO2, actual emissions
                                 must be reported for each individual emission point
                                 per year in a nonattainment area with uncontrolled
                                 actual emissions of one ton er year or more of any
                                 individual criteria pollutant (pollutants are not
                                 summed); for which the area is nonattainment and
                                 each individual emission point in an attainment or
                                 attainment/maintenance area with uncontrolled actual
                                 emissions of two tons per year or more of any
                                 individual criteria pollutant (pollutants are not
                                 summed).

                 V.B.1.h.(iii)   Actual emissions of TAC, PM2.5, PM10, and SO2
                         from non-road internal combustion engines in Section
                         V.C.2.s. that are not subject to the emissions reporting
                         requirements in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
                         I.B.36.c. or I.B.36.d. do not need to be quantified and
                         reported in the annual emissions report.


                                                                                       284
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           V.B.1.i. Beginning with the June 2022 report for calendar year 2021
                   through the June 2023 report for calendar year 2022, if the
                   emissions reported for any activities or equipment, as specified in
                   Section V.C., are calculated using a method other than what was
                   used to report to the U.S. EPA under the federal Greenhouse Gas
                   Reporting Program (40 CFR Part 98) for the same activity or
                   equipment, the owner or operator must submit supporting
                   documentation with the annual report that includes the emissions
                   information reported to the EPA, an explanation of the difference
                   in emissions reported to the Division, the emission calculation
                   method(s) used to report to the Division, and a justification and
                   supporting documentation for using a method other than that for
                   the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. If the Division
                   determines that the use of a different calculation method was not
                   justified, the owner or operator must revise the report accordingly,
                   to use the same calculation method as that reported under the
                   federal Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program or other Division-
                   approved method.

           V.B.1.j. Emission factors, beginning with the June 2022 report for calendar
                   year 2021, where emission factors are used to calculate
                   emissions reported pursuant to Section V.B.1.

                 V.B.1.j.(i)    Where the Division has published a default emission
                         factor, owners or operators submitting reports under this
                         section must use the state default factor or other Division-
                         accepted emission factor.

                 V.B.1.j.(ii)   Owners or operators using a site-specific emission
                         factor must submit documentation to the Division supporting
                         the use of that emission factor with the first annual emission
                         report in which that site-specific emission factor is used (the
                         calendar year 2021 report will be considered the first report



                                                                                     285
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                            for purposes of this section). If subsequent annual emission
                            reports use the same emission factor, operators do not need
                            to resubmit the supporting documentation.

                    V.B.1.j.(iii)   Owners or operators using a site-specific emission
                            factor must conduct a gas speciation analysis, a pressurized
                            liquid sampling method, or another Division-accepted
                            analytical method every five (5) years to verify the ongoing
                            accuracy of the site-specific emission factor pursuant to a
                            Division-accepted sampling method or protocol.

             V.B.1.k. A certification by the company representative that supervised the
                      development and submission of the inventory report that, based
                      on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the
                      statements and information in the document are true, accurate,
                      and complete.

       V.B.2. The owner or operator must submit a revised Emissions Reporting Notice
             after discovering that an Emissions Reporting Notice submitted within the
             previous two (2) years contained one or more substantive errors. A
             substantive error is a mass of emissions of any individual pollutant subject
             to reporting under Section V. that is at least 10% higher or lower than the
             mass of emissions of the pollutant reported across the owner or operator’s
             activity or equipment, as listed in Section V.C., in Colorado. A refinement
             of or improvement to an emissions estimation technique or emission factor
             is not a substantive error but must be noted in the subsequent annual
             report after the refinement or improvement. Revised Emissions Reporting
             Notice must be submitted by August 31 if the substantive error is
             discovered between January 1 and June 30, and by February 28 if the
             substantive error is discovered between July 1 and December 31 of the
             preceding calendar year.

V.C.   Beginning July 1, 2020, and each calendar year thereafter, owners or operators
       must maintain the following information for inclusion in the Emissions Reporting


                                                                                       286
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     Notice, except that beginning January 1, 2021, owners or operators must
     maintain the information described in Sections V.C.2.g. and V.C.2.h. Beginning
     May 1, 2021, owners or operators of class II disposal well facilities must maintain
     the following information for inclusion in the Emissions Reporting Notice.

     V.C.1. AIRS number of the activity or equipment and associated facility or
           pipeline (if a pipeline between facilities) location, including latitude and
           longitude coordinates. If the activity or equipment does not have an AIRS
           number, a description of the activity or equipment.

     V.C.2. Actual emissions from each activity or equipment listed, unless otherwise
           specified in the Division-approved report format, and the emission
           factor(s), assumptions, calculation methodology used to calculate the
           emissions, and other supporting information on the Division-approved
           form.

           V.C.2.a. Abnormal events, except those reported as malfunctions under
                    the Common Provisions or in another activity or equipment.

           V.C.2.b. Acid gas removal units.

           V.C.2.c. Associated gas venting and flaring, aggregated per facility.
                    Beginning with the June 2023 report for calendar year 2022,
                    owners or operators must measure or estimate the volume of
                    natural gas that is vented or flared during drilling, completion, and
                    production operations.

           V.C.2.d. Blowdowns from facility equipment or piping where the physical
                    volume of the piping between isolation valves is greater than or
                    equal to 50 cubic feet, aggregated per activity below per facility.
                    Beginning with the June 2024 report for calendar year 2023,
                    owners or operators must report this information for all blowdowns
                    from facility equipment and piping, where the physical volume
                    between isolation valves is greater than or equal to 1 cubic foot.

                   V.C.2.d.(i)   Pipeline venting within the facility boundary.



                                                                                          287
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  V.C.2.d.(ii)     Compressors.

                  V.C.2.d.(iii)    Scrubbers/strainers.

                  V.C.2.d.(iv)     Pig launchers and receivers, through the June 2022
                          report for calendar year 2021.

                  V.C.2.d.(v)      Emergency shutdowns (regardless of equipment
                          type).

                  V.C.2.d.(vi)     Through the June 2023 report (for calendar year
                          2022), all other equipment (including pipelines, compressor
                          case or cylinders, manifolds, suction bottles, discharge
                          bottles, and vessels) with a physical volume between
                          isolation valves greater than or equal to 50 cubic feet.

                  V.C.2.d.(vii) Beginning with the June 2024 report for calendar year
                          2023, all other equipment (including pipelines, compressor
                          case or cylinders, manifolds, suction bottles, discharge
                          bottles, and vessels), where the physical volume between
                          isolation valves is greater than or equal to 1 cubic foot.

                  V.C.2.d.(viii) Beginning with the June 2024 report for calendar year
                          2023, best practices employed pursuant to Section II.H.4.

           V.C.2.e. Boilers.

           V.C.2.f. Centrifugal compressor leaks or vents, aggregated per facility.
                   Beginning with the June 2025 report for calendar year 2024,
                   centrifugal compressor leaks or vents must be aggregated per
                   compressor.

           V.C.2.g. Class II disposal well facility fluids accepted for injection. Owners
                   or operators will take periodic, representative samples of the
                   liquids for estimating emissions for the annual report.

           V.C.2.h. Class II disposal well facility produced water ponds.




                                                                                       288
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           V.C.2.i. Beginning with the June 2026 report for calendar year 2025,
                   crankcase vents from natural gas engines greater than or equal to
                   130 horsepower.

           V.C.2.j. Drilling mud and mud pits.

           V.C.2.k. Flares and enclosed combustion devices, where not otherwise
                   reported in the emissions of another emissions source category.

           V.C.2.l. Fugitive emissions from components, aggregated per facility.
                   Beginning with the June 2022 report for calendar year 2021, gas
                   composition data and component counts used in fugitive
                   emissions calculations must be provided.

           V.C.2.m.      Hydrocarbon liquid storage tanks.

           V.C.2.n. Hydrocarbon liquid loadout.

           V.C.2.o. Maintenance and safety, where not otherwise reported in the
                   emissions of another emissions source category. Beginning with
                   the June 2023 report for calendar year 2022, owners or operators
                   must report the basis for each maintenance or safety event.

           V.C.2.p. Natural gas dehydration (glycol and desiccant).

           V.C.2.q. Natural gas pneumatic controllers, aggregated per facility.
                   Pneumatic controllers at the wellhead must be aggregated with
                   the associated facility or be reported pursuant to a different
                   Division-approved format.

           V.C.2.r. Natural gas pneumatic pumps, aggregated per facility. Pneumatic
                   pumps at the wellhead must be aggregated with the associated
                   facility or be reported pursuant to a different Division-approved
                   format.

           V.C.2.s. Non-road internal combustion engines.

           V.C.2.t. Pigging operations, including pig launchers and receivers.
                   Beginning with the June 2023 report for calendar year 2022,


                                                                                       289
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   emissions from pigging operations must be separately identified in
                   the annual report from other operational activities, and aggregated
                   by pigging unit.

                 V.C.2.t.(i)    Beginning with the June 2024 report for calendar year
                        2023, capture or control methods or best practices employed
                        pursuant to Sections II.H.1., II.H.2., or II.H.4. per pigging
                        unit.

           V.C.2.u. Pipeline segments between facilities.

           V.C.2.v. Process heaters.

           V.C.2.w.     Produced water storage tanks.

           V.C.2.x. Produced water loadout.

           V.C.2.y. Reciprocating compressor leaks or vents, aggregated per facility.
                   Beginning with the June 2023 report for calendar year 2022,
                   reciprocating compressor leaks or vents must be aggregated per
                   compressor.

           V.C.2.z. Separators (e.g., two-phase separators, three-phase separators,
                   high/low pressure separators, heater-treaters, vapor recovery
                   towers, etc.). Beginning with the June 2022 report for calendar
                   year 2021, stages of separation must be identified.

           V.C.2.aa.    Stationary combustion turbines.

           V.C.2.bb.    Stationary compression ignition internal combustion engines.

           V.C.2.cc.    Stationary spark ignition internal combustion engines.

           V.C.2.dd.    Temporary completion and/or workover equipment (e.g.,
                   tanks).

           V.C.2.ee.    Thermal oxidizing units, where not otherwise reported in the
                   emissions of another emissions source category.

           V.C.2.ff. Well completions (includes flowback).



                                                                                        290
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             V.C.2.gg.     Well workovers.

             V.C.2.hh.     Wellhead bradenhead.

V.D.   Repealed (July 15, 2026).

VI.    (State Only) Oil and Natural Gas Pre-Production, Early Production and
Production Operations
       VI.A. Definitions

       VI.A.1.      “Childcare facility” means a child care center as defined in 26.5-5-
             303(3)(a), C.R.S. (2024) and includes any associated outdoor play areas
             adjacent to or directly accessible from the center and is fenced or has
             natural barriers, such as hedges or stationary walls, at least four (4) feet
             high demarcating its boundary.

       VI.A.2.      “Commencement of operation” means when a source first conducts
             the activity that it was designed and permitted for. In addition, for oil and
             gas well production facilities, commencement of operation is the date any
             permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
             flowing to sales lines, gathering lines, or storage tanks from the first
             producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
             completion operations (including flowback).

       VI.A.3.      “Controlling interest” means an interest that provides a person,
             either directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the
             management and policies of another person, whether through ownership
             or voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.

       VI.A.4.      “Cumulatively impacted community” means a census block group
             within the disproportionately impacted community layer in Colorado
             EnviroScreen (Version 1.0) with a Colorado EnviroScreen (Version 1.0)
             score above the 80th percentile.

             VI.A.4.a.     Beginning April 14, 2025, cumulatively impacted community
                     means a census block within the disproportionately impacted
                     community layer in Colorado EnviroScreen (Version 2.0) with a


                                                                                         291
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   Colorado EnviroScreen (Version 2.0) score above the 80th
                   percentile.

     VI.A.5.      “Disproportionately impacted community” means

                  VI.A.5.a.       a census block group that satisfies one or more of the
                         following.

                  VI.A.5.a.(i)    The proportion of the population living in households
                         that are below two hundred percent of the federal poverty
                         level is greater than forty percent.

                  VI.A.5.a.(ii)   The proportion of households that spend more than
                         thirty percent of household income on housing is greater
                         than fifty percent.

                  VI.A.5.a.(iii) The proportion of the population that identifies as
                         people of color is greater than forty percent.

                  VI.A.5.a.(iv) The proportion of the population that is linguistically
                         isolated is greater than twenty percent.

                  VI.A.5.a.(v) Multiple factors, including socioeconomic stressors,
                         vulnerable populations, disproportionate environmental
                         burdens, vulnerability to environmental degradation or
                         climate change, and lack of public participation may act
                         cumulatively to affect health and the environment and may
                         contribute to persistent disparities.

           VI.A.5.b.     Beginning April 14, 2025, communities that meet the
                   definition in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. (2023).
                   These communities are identified as any census block group
                   identified in the Disproportionately Impacted Community Map
                   (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
                   communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”, “People of
                   color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population




                                                                                       292
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and
                   “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”.

     VI.A.6.      “Drill-out” means the process of removing the plugs placed during
           hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. Drill-out ends after the removal of all
           stage plugs and the initial wellbore clean-up.

     VI.A.7.      “Drilling” or “drilled” means the process to bore a hole to create a
           well for oil and/or natural gas production.

     VI.A.8.      “Flowback” means the process of allowing fluids and entrained
           solids to flow from a well following stimulation, either in preparation for a
           subsequent phase of treatment or in preparation for cleanup and placing
           the well into production. The term flowback also means the fluids and
           entrained solids flowing from a well after drilling or hydraulic fracturing or
           refracturing. Flowback ends when all temporary flowback equipment is
           removed from service. Flowback does not include drill-out.

     VI.A.9.      “Flowback vessel” means a vessel that contains flowback.

     VI.A.10.     ”High occupancy building unit” means

           VI.A.10.a.    Any school, nursing facility as defined in 25.5-4-103(14),
                   C.R.S. (2024), hospital, facilities (i.e., life care) as defined in 11-
                   49-101(5), C.R.S. (2024), or correctional facility as defined in 17-
                   1-102(1.7), C.R.S. (2024), provided the facility or institution
                   regularly serves 50 or more persons;

           VI.A.10.b.    An operating child care center as defined in 26.5-5-
                   303(3)(a), C.R.S. (2024); or

           VI.A.10.c.    A multifamily dwelling unit with four or more units.

     VI.A.11.     “Hydraulic fracturing” means the process of directing pressurized
           fluids containing any combination of water, proppant, and any added
           chemicals to penetrate tight formations, such as shale, coal, and tight
           sand formations, that subsequently require flowback to expel fracture
           fluids and solids.


                                                                                        293
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VI.A.12.      “Hydraulic refracturing” means conducting a subsequent hydraulic
           fracturing operation at a well that has previously undergone a hydraulic
           fracturing operation.

     VI.A.13.      “kBOE” means production of hydrocarbon liquids and natural gas,
           measured in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent.

     VI.A.14.      “Majority operator” means an operator with company-wide
           production in the 8-hour ozone control area and/or northern Weld County
           in the calendar year immediately prior to the applicable NOx intensity
           target year of greater than 50,000 kBOE.

     VI.A.15.      “Midstream segment” means the oil and natural gas compression
           segment and the natural gas processing segment that are upstream of the
           natural gas transmission and storage segment.

     VI.A.16.      “Minority operator” means an operator with company-wide
           production in the 8-hour ozone control area and/or northern Weld County
           in the calendar year immediately prior to the applicable NOx intensity
           target year of greater than 45 kBOE but less than or equal to 50,000
           kBOE.

     VI.A.17.      “Pre-production operations” means the drilling through the
           hydrocarbon bearing zones, hydraulic fracturing or refracturing, drill-out,
           and flowback of an oil and/or natural gas well.

     VI.A.18.      “Residential building unit” means a building or structure designed
           for use as a place of residency by a person, a family, or families. The term
           includes manufactured, mobile, and modular homes, except to the extent
           that any such manufactured, mobile, or modular home is intended for
           temporary occupancy or for business purposes. Each individual residence
           within a building will be counted as one residential building unit.

     VI.A.19.      “School” means any operating public school as defined in 22-7-
           703(4), C.R.S. (2024), including any charter school as defined in 22-30.5-




                                                                                     294
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            103(2), C.R.S. (2024), or 22-30.5-502(6), C.R.S. (2024), or private school
            as defined in 22-30.5-103(6.5), C.R.S. (2024).

      VI.A.20.      “School facility” means any discrete facility or area, whether indoor
            or outdoor, associated with a school, that students use commonly as part
            of their curriculum or extracurricular activities. A school facility is either
            adjacent to or owned by the school or school governing body, and the
            school or school governing body has the legal right to use the school
            facility at its discretion.

      VI.A.21.      “Tank measurement system” means equipment and methods used
            to determine the quantity of the liquids inside a flowback vessel without
            requiring direct access through the flowback vessel thief hatch or other
            opening.

      VI.A.22.      “Upstream segment” means oil and natural gas exploration and
            production operations located upstream of the midstream segment.

      VI.A.23.      “Well” means a hole drilled for the purpose of producing oil and/or
            natural gas.

      VI.A.24.      “Well completion” means the process that allows for the flow of
            petroleum and/or natural gas from newly drilled wells, to expel drilling and
            reservoir fluids, and to test the reservoir flow characteristics (e.g.,
            hydraulic fracturing, drill-out, flowback).

      VI.A.25.      “Well re-completion” means the process that allows for the flow of
            petroleum and/or natural gas from an existing well from any geological
            interval not currently producing in the existing well, to expel drilling and
            reservoir fluids, and to test the reservoir flow characteristics (e.g.,
            hydraulic re-fracturing, drill-out, flowback).

VI.B. General provisions

      VI.B.1.       At all times the facility and equipment must be maintained and
            operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices
            for minimizing emissions.


                                                                                             295
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

      VI.B.2.       Air pollution control equipment must be operated and maintained
             pursuant to the manufacturing specifications or equivalent to the extent
             practicable and consistent with technological limitations and good
             engineering and maintenance practices.

VI.C. Air quality monitoring

      VI.C.1.       Owners or operators of drilling operations that begin on or after
             May 1, 2021, must monitor air quality at and/or around the pre-production
             and early production operations.

             VI.C.1.a.     Owners or operators must monitor air quality for at least ten
                     (10) days prior to beginning pre-production operations, during all
                     pre-production operations, and for at least six months after the
                     well is capable of consistently producing either separable gas or
                     salable liquid hydrocarbons (i.e., early production).

             VI.C.1.b.     Owners or operators must submit an air quality monitoring
                     plan to the Division and the local government with jurisdiction over
                     the location of the operations and any other local government unit,
                     where applicable, within 2,000 feet of the proposed operations at
                     least sixty (60) days prior to beginning air quality monitoring.
                     Beginning May 1, 2025, owners or operators must submit an air
                     quality monitoring plan using a Division-approved format for each
                     drilling, pre-production, and production operation not located on
                     the same surface disturbance and where the operation locations
                     do not utilize the same monitoring equipment. Upon the request of
                     any of these local government units within fourteen (14) days of
                     receiving the plan, the Division will consult with them as part of its
                     review process. Owners or operators must receive approval from
                     the Division of the air quality monitoring plan prior to beginning air
                     quality monitoring. Owners or operators must comply with the plan
                     once approved. The air quality monitoring plan must include, at a
                     minimum:


                                                                                        296
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 VI.C.1.b.(i)   The owner or operator name and the contact
                        information of the owner or operator representative for
                        monitoring purposes.

                 VI.C.1.b.(ii) The planned schedule for drilling and pre-production
                        operations.

                 VI.C.1.b.(iii) The operations to be monitored including the API
                        number of the well(s), location of the operations including
                        latitude and longitude coordinates, and any associated
                        facility or equipment AIRS number(s). Beginning May 1,
                        2025, the Energy and Carbon Management Commission’s
                        (ECMC) Location ID as identified in the Colorado Oil and
                        Gas Information System (COGIS), if assigned.

                 VI.C.1.b.(iv) Whether the local government with jurisdiction over
                        the location of the operations has air quality monitoring
                        requirements applicable to pre-production and/or early
                        production operations, a description of those requirements,
                        and a local government contact for air quality monitoring
                        purposes.

                 VI.C.1.b.(v) The monitoring objective(s), which must include one
                        or more of the following (and may include additional
                        objectives such as field-testing new air quality monitoring
                        technologies or improving emissions inventories):

                        VI.C.1.b.(v)(A)      Detect, evaluate, and reduce as
                                necessary hazardous air pollutant emissions;

                        VI.C.1.b.(v)(B)      Detect, evaluate, and reduce as
                                necessary ozone precursor emissions;

                        VI.C.1.b.(v)(C)      Detect, evaluate, and reduce as
                                necessary methane emissions.




                                                                                      297
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 VI.C.1.b.(vi) The air pollutant(s) and other parameters to be
                        monitored. Pollutants must include at least one of the
                        following: total VOCs, methane, benzene or BTEX (benzene,
                        toluene, ethyl benzene and xylenes) or other indicator of
                        hydrocarbon emissions from pre-production and early
                        production operations, as appropriate to meeting the
                        specified monitoring objectives.

                 VI.C.1.b.(vii) A description of the monitoring equipment to be
                        deployed, including the manufacturer and model information
                        and any manufacturer specifications for the monitoring
                        equipment and data systems. The description of pollutant
                        monitoring equipment should explain why it was chosen and
                        document or provide references describing relevant prior use
                        and evaluations that are known to the owner or operator.

                 VI.C.1.b.(viii) A description of the meteorological monitoring
                        equipment to be deployed. If meteorological data will not be
                        collected on-site, the plan must provide reasoning and
                        justification, and identify the meteorological station from
                        which data will be obtained and demonstrate that the station
                        represents conditions at the oil and gas development site.

                 VI.C.1.b.(ix) A monitor siting plan, which must include but is not
                        limited to:

                        VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)      The number of monitors and/or sensors
                               to be deployed. For monitoring plans submitted after
                               May 1, 2025.

                               VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)(1)   Sensors deployed to a minimum
                                      of three (3) monitoring sites around the pre-
                                      production or production operation.




                                                                                      298
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)(2)   Sensors deployed to a minimum
                                     of four (4) monitoring sites around the pre-
                                     production or production operation where at
                                     least one (1) residential building unit, high
                                     occupancy building unit, school, school facility,
                                     or childcare facility is located within 2,000 feet
                                     of the edge of the surface disturbance of the
                                     operations to be monitored.

                              VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)(3)   At least one (1) meteorological
                                     monitor capable of measuring wind speed,
                                     wind direction, temperature, pressure, and
                                     relative humidity deployed at a location where
                                     it can gather representative meteorological
                                     data, unless the use of off-site meteorological
                                     data is justified by the operator pursuant to
                                     Section VI.C.1.b.(viii).

                              VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)(4)   Monitor siting distances and
                                     additional siting criteria that will provide
                                     adequate monitoring coverage.

                              VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A)(5)   The Division may approve a
                                     justified, alternative to or variation from the
                                     provisions in Section VI.C.1.b.(ix)(A).

                       VI.C.1.b.(ix)(B)     The location (as latitude and longitude),
                              height, and distance (in feet) of the monitoring
                              equipment to the edge of the surface disturbance of
                              the operations to be monitored, including for each
                              phase of operations if location and height of the
                              equipment will change (e.g., monitoring placement
                              impacted by sound walls). For monitoring plans
                              submitted after May 1, 2025, the owner or operator


                                                                                       299
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              must orient the meteorological monitoring equipment
                              within +/- 10 degrees of true north, accounting for
                              magnetic declination, upon its initial placement and
                              any relocation, unless the use of off-site
                              meteorological data is justified by the operator
                              pursuant to Section VI.C.1.b.(viii).

                       VI.C.1.b.(ix)(C)     A topographic map and plan of the site,
                              showing the expected equipment layout, including air
                              quality and meteorological monitor locations and their
                              distance from pre-production and production
                              operations. The map must indicate any obstructions to
                              air flow to the monitor(s) and also show all roads and
                              access ways within a half-mile of the facility and any
                              contiguous structures, whether or not they are part of
                              the production operations. For monitoring plans
                              submitted after May 1, 2025, include a geographic
                              information system (GIS) shapefile, which may be
                              preliminary, showing the boundaries of each drilling,
                              pre-production, and production operation covered by
                              the monitoring plan.

                       VI.C.1.b.(ix)(D)     For monitoring plans submitted after
                              May 1, 2025, a description of how the placement of
                              monitoring equipment minimizes surface
                              disturbances, in alignment with the Colorado Energy
                              and Carbon Management Commission’s (ECMC) site
                              preparation requirements, and any monitoring
                              requirements that are conditions of approval (COA) in
                              the owner or operator’s ECMC permit.

                 VI.C.1.b.(x) The standard operating procedures that will be
                       employed, to include at minimum:



                                                                                    300
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(A)       The sampling and/or measurement
                              interval, averaging times, minimum detection
                              concentration or level, expected precision, and
                              confidence level at which pollutant data will be
                              reported.

                              For monitoring plans submitted after May 1, 2025, the
                              sampling rate for continually monitored pollutants
                              (e.g., TVOC and methane) must be at a minimum
                              sample frequency of one sample per minute.

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(B)       The response level for each pollutant or
                              indicator monitored and/or sampled and the response
                              procedures or actions that will be taken if elevated
                              levels are observed.

                              For monitoring plans submitted after May 1, 2025,
                              response levels and response procedures that are
                              adequate to support the objective(s) of the monitoring
                              plan.

                              VI.C.1.b.(x)(B)(1)     Owners or operators must
                                      include a minimum of three response levels
                                      with corresponding response procedures, the
                                      highest of which includes notifications to the
                                      Division and local government with jurisdiction
                                      over the location.

                              VI.C.1.b.(x)(B)(2)     Should the use of whole air
                                      sampling be required pursuant to Section
                                      VI.C.1.b.(xii), the sampling must be
                                      automatically triggered and for a sample
                                      collection period not to exceed one (1) hour,
                                      unless otherwise specified in the approved
                                      monitoring plan.


                                                                                     301
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(C)      The data quality indicators for precision
                             and bias of the monitoring equipment.

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)      The quality control and quality
                             assurance procedures, including calibration intervals
                             and frequency, which will be used to ensure proper
                             operation of the monitoring equipment. Owners or
                             operators may reference and attach an existing
                             methodology.

                             For monitoring plans submitted after May 1, 2025,
                             calibration and equipment testing procedures as
                             specified in Sections VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(1) through
                             VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(3) and as otherwise informed by the
                             manufacturer or monitoring service company
                             recommendations.

                             VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(1)    Continually monitoring equipment
                                    (e.g., VOC and CH4 monitors) must be
                                    challenged, at a minimum, monthly (with a
                                    minimum of 10 calendar days between
                                    challenges) using a 2-point bump test
                                    procedure. If a monitor fails to meet
                                    acceptance criteria as specified in an approved
                                    monitoring plan, an in-field calibration of the
                                    monitor must be performed. Following an in-
                                    field calibration procedure, a follow-up bump
                                    test must be performed. If the monitor fails to
                                    meet acceptance criteria in the follow-up bump
                                    test, the monitor or sensor must be replaced
                                    with a monitor or sensor that has undergone
                                    calibration prior to installation as specified in




                                                                                    302
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    Section VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(2) or repaired,
                                    recalibrated, and bump tested.

                             VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(2)   Monitor calibrations must take
                                    place no more than fourteen (14) calendar
                                    days prior to or upon installation at the
                                    monitoring site. If monitors are removed from
                                    the monitoring site for any reason, they must
                                    undergo calibration no more than fourteen (14)
                                    calendar days prior to or upon re-installation at
                                    the monitoring site. For monitors that are
                                    calibrated in a factory or laboratory, calibrations
                                    must occur within sixty (60) calendar days of
                                    installation or re-installation and within fourteen
                                    (14) calendar days after the calibrated monitor
                                    leaves climate-controlled storage. Monitors
                                    calibrated in a factory or laboratory must also
                                    be challenged using a bump test procedure
                                    upon installation or re-installation.

                             VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(3)   Malfunctioning monitors or
                                    sensors that require replacement must be
                                    replaced within fourteen (14) calendar days of
                                    the determination to replace the monitor or
                                    sensor (typically following a failed in-field
                                    calibration). If a monitor or sensor cannot be
                                    replaced in the required timeframe, the owner
                                    or operator must notify the Division and explain
                                    the failure to meet the required timeline. If the
                                    Division finds the delay to be justified or
                                    unavoidable, the Division will provide an
                                    extension of the required timeline.



                                                                                    303
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(4)     Monthly bump tests, applicable
                                     calibrations, or other monitoring equipment
                                     quality control and quality assurance
                                     procedures specified in the approved
                                     monitoring plan, are not required during
                                     complete months of idle period but must be
                                     conducted prior to transitioning from an idle
                                     period to a period of operational activity.

                              VI.C.1.b.(x)(D)(5)     The Division may approve a
                                     justified, alternative to or variation from the
                                     provisions in Section VI.C.1.b.(x)(D).

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(E)        A discussion of known limitations of the
                              pollutant monitoring equipment and, if applicable, how
                              they will be addressed.

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(F)        The protocol that will be used for
                              acquiring, processing, and recording relevant
                              meteorological data.

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(G)        The data system and operating protocol
                              to be used for data collection, including, but not
                              limited to, data logging, data processing, recording,
                              downloading, backup and storage, and reporting. For
                              monitoring plans submitted after May 1, 2025, the
                              owner or operator must incorporate local storage
                              capacity such that at least 24-hours of data may be
                              stored and available for upload to cloud facilities on a
                              rolling basis to minimize data loss due to intermittent
                              connectivity.

                              VI.C.1.b.(x)(G)(1)     For monitoring plans submitted
                                     after May 1, 2025, each sensor and
                                     meteorological monitor must maintain a


                                                                                       304
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      minimum 75% recovery rate (i.e., minutes of
                                      data as a percentage of the total minutes in the
                                      reporting period) for each pollutant and
                                      meteorological parameter monitored per
                                      monitoring site over the reporting period.
                                      Sensor malfunctions resulting in a less than
                                      75% recovery rate for a reporting period may
                                      be excepted from the recovery requirement for
                                      no more than two consecutive reporting
                                      periods.

                       VI.C.1.b.(x)(H)        The methods for collecting and
                              analyzing speciated or other samples of chemical
                              constituents identified by the Division when indicated
                              necessary based on site-specific concentration
                              thresholds, if applicable.

                 VI.C.1.b.(xi) A description of how the monitoring equipment,
                       pollutant(s) monitored, and siting plan are expected to detect
                       elevated emissions and achieve at least one of the
                       monitoring objectives listed in Section VI.C.1.b.(v).

                 VI.C.1.b.(xii) For monitoring plans submitted after May 1, 2025, the
                       owner or operator must collect speciated data using whole
                       air samplers at operations where at least one (1) residential
                       building unit, high occupancy building unit, school, school
                       facility, or childcare facility is located within 2,000 feet, at the
                       time of monitoring plan submission, of the edge of the
                       surface disturbance of the operations to be monitored.
                       Samplers must

                       VI.C.1.b.(xii)(A)      Be co-located at each monitoring site
                              located between the operations and proximal
                              populations.


                                                                                       305
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        VI.C.1.b.(xii)(B)     Automatically trigger upon a monitored
                                value at or above a specified response level.

                        VI.C.1.b.(xii)(C)     Collect a sample for a period not to
                                exceed one (1) hour.

                        VI.C.1.b.(xii)(D)     Be analyzed for an analyte compound
                                list that is appropriate for the monitoring objective
                                such as, but not limited to, BTEX (benzene, toluene,
                                ethyl benzene, and xylenes).

                        VI.C.1.b.(xii)(E)     The Division may approve a justified,
                                alternative to or variation from the provisions in
                                Section VI.C.1.b.(xii).

           VI.C.1.c.    Within ten (10) days of approving a monitoring plan, the
                   Division will notify all local government units identified in Section
                   VI.C.1.b. of the plan approval.

           VI.C.1.d.    Beginning May 1, 2025, and applicable to all current and
                   future approved monitoring plans, following an inactive period of
                   eighteen (18) months from either the indicated start of activity or
                   pause of activity (extended idle period), the Division may choose
                   to exit the monitoring plan and request submission of a new
                   monitoring plan to be compliant with current requirements.

     VI.C.2.      Recordkeeping and reporting

           VI.C.2.a.    Owners or operators must keep the following records for a
                   minimum of three (3) years, unless otherwise specified, and upon
                   request make records available to the Division. Local
                   governments identified in Section VI.C.1.b may request those
                   records from the Division. If the Division has not requested the
                   records and a local government(s) identified in Section VI.C.1.b
                   requests the records from the Division, the Division shall request
                   the records from the owner or operator.



                                                                                        306
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 VI.C.2.a.(i)   The air quality monitoring plan.

                 VI.C.2.a.(ii) Monthly reports and the data necessary to inform the
                        monthly reports, as provided in Section VI.C.2.b.

                 VI.C.2.a.(iii) Activity logs to inform Section VI.C.2.b.(iii)(A) of the
                        monthly report.

                 VI.C.2.a.(iv) For a period of one year after the monthly report, the
                        underlying raw data associated with each monitor.

                 VI.C.2.a.(v) For a period of one year after the monthly report, the
                        meteorological data in the time intervals as close to the
                        sampling and/or measurement intervals as possible
                        Beginning May 1, 2025, the data must be in 1-minute
                        intervals, unless otherwise specified in an approved
                        monitoring plan.

                 VI.C.2.a.(vi) Beginning May 1, 2025, records of the calibration and
                        equipment testing, as provided in Section VI.C.1.b.(x)(D).

           VI.C.2.b.    Owners or operators must submit monthly reports of
                   monitoring conducted to the Division by the last day of the month
                   following the previous month of monitoring (e.g., by June 30 for
                   the previous May 1-31). Beginning June 30, 2025, owners or
                   operators must submit the monthly reports using a Division-
                   approved format and submission method.

                 VI.C.2.b.(i)   The month and year of the monitoring period.

                 VI.C.2.b.(ii) A description of the monitoring equipment and the
                        pollutant(s) monitored.

                 VI.C.2.b.(iii) A description of the monitored operations including

                        VI.C.2.b.(iii)(A)     The phase of operation (e.g., prior to
                                pre-production, during pre-production operations,
                                early production) and activities occurring during the



                                                                                       307
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              monitored period. Beginning June 30, 2025, start and
                              stop dates for each phase of operation for each well.

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(B)    API number of the well(s).

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(C)    Location of the operations, including
                              latitude and longitude coordinates. Beginning June
                              30, 2025, the location (as latitude and longitude) of
                              the monitoring equipment.

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(D)    Any associated facility or equipment
                              AIRS number(s).

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(E)    The date, time, and duration of any
                              monitoring equipment downtime. Beginning June 30,
                              2025, discussion of the cause(s) of monitoring
                              equipment downtime resulting in failure to meet the
                              75% recovery rate.

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(F)    The date, time, and duration of
                              operations malfunctions and shut-in periods or other
                              events investigated for influence on monitoring.

                       VI.C.2.b.(iii)(G)    For monitoring plans submitted after
                              May 1, 2025, the owner or operator must include
                              updated geographic information system (GIS)
                              shapefile(s) showing the boundaries of each drilling,
                              pre-production, and production operation covered by
                              the monitoring plan if the shapefile submitted
                              pursuant to Section VI.C.1.b.(ix)(C) was not the final
                              as-built shapefile.

                 VI.C.2.b.(iv) For the first monthly report after beginning monitoring
                       during pre-production operations, a summary of air quality
                       condition results monitored prior to beginning pre-production
                       operations, including time series of the results at hourly or



                                                                                    308
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       higher time resolution and a statistical summary of the air
                       quality results monitored prior to beginning pre-production
                       operations, including number of observations, maximum
                       concentrations or levels, periodic averages, and data
                       distributions including 5th, 25th, median, 75th and 95th
                       percentile values. Beginning June 30, 2025, submit the
                       monitored air quality data at a minimum sample frequency of
                       one (1) sample per minute timestamped in Mountain
                       Standard Time (UTC-7), unless otherwise specified in an
                       approved monitoring plan, and describe the activities that
                       occurred during the monitoring conducted prior to beginning
                       pre-production operations.

                 VI.C.2.b.(v) A summary of monitored air quality results, including

                       VI.C.2.b.(v)(A)      For reports submitted prior to June 30,
                              2025, time series plots as hourly or higher time
                              resolution and a statistical summary including number
                              of observations, maximum concentrations or levels,
                              periodic averages, and date distributions including
                              5th, 25th, median, 75th and 95 percentile values.

                       VI.C.2.b.(v)(B)      For reports submitted on and after June
                              30, 2025, submit the monitored air quality data at a
                              minimum sample frequency of one (1) sample per
                              minute and flag data for any sensor that fails to meet
                              the monthly bump test acceptance criteria.

                       VI.C.2.b.(v)(C)      For monthly reports for monitoring plans
                              submitted after May 1, 2025, report any data loss and
                              the cause for the data loss.

                 VI.C.2.b.(vi) A description of responsive action(s) taken as a result
                       of monitoring results, including the date; concentration or
                       level measured; correlations with specific events, activities,


                                                                                     309
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       and/or monitoring thresholds; and any additional steps taken
                       as a result of the responsive action. Beginning June 30,
                       2025,

                       VI.C.2.b.(vi)(A)       This description applies to action(s)
                               taken as a result of exceedance of any response level
                               and must also include time and duration of the
                               exceedance.

                       VI.C.2.b.(vi)(B)       Describe the events and activities (e.g.,
                               drilling, hydraulic fracturing or refracturing, drill-out,
                               flowback, equipment maintenance, equipment
                               malfunction) occurring at the time of the exceedance
                               of the response level.

                 VI.C.2.b.(vii) The results of any speciated or other samples of
                       chemical constituents identified by the Division and collected
                       when site-specific concentrations indicate such samples are
                       necessary.

                 VI.C.2.b.(viii) A summary of meteorological data, including in the
                       time intervals identified for concentration readings in the air
                       quality monitoring plan during the time period of responsive
                       action(s). If meteorological data is collected on-site, the
                       meteorological data assessed in as close to the sampling
                       and/or measurement intervals as possible.

                 VI.C.2.b.(ix) A description of how data will be processed, if
                       available from the manufacturer, and summarized for
                       purposes of fulfilling monthly reporting requirements,
                       including whether and how data will be corrected, and how
                       missing data and values that are below detection limits will
                       be treated in statistical summaries.




                                                                                        310
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   VI.C.2.b.(x) Beginning May 2023, a list of leaking components
                          requiring repair and the monitoring method(s) used to
                          determine the presence of the leak pursuant to Section II.E.

                   VI.C.2.b.(xi) In the last monthly report, a certification by the
                          company representative that supervised the development
                          and submission of the monitoring reports that, based on
                          information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the
                          statements and information in the monthly reports are true,
                          accurate, and complete.

            VI.C.2.c.     Beginning May 1, 2025, owners or operators are not
                    required to submit the monthly reports pursuant to Section
                    VI.C.2.b. during complete months of idle periods but must notify
                    the Division that the operation is idle. For purposes of this section,
                    idle period means a period of time when a well has been drilled
                    through the hydrocarbon layer but not completed or a well is not
                    producing hydrocarbons but is capable of production by opening
                    valves, activating existing equipment, or supplying a power
                    source.

      VI.C.3.      Owners or operators must notify the Division and the local
            government with jurisdiction over the location of the operations, using the
            contact provided in Section VI.C.1.b.(iv), within forty-eight (48) hours of
            responsive action(s) taken as a result of recorded values in excess of the
            response level.

VI.D. Emission reduction from pre-production flowback vessels

      VI.D.1.      Control

            VI.D.1.a.     Owners or operators of a well with flowback that begins on
                    or after May 1, 2021, must collect and control emissions from
                    each flowback vessel on and after the date flowback is routed to
                    the flowback vessel by routing emissions to and operating air



                                                                                          311
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  pollution control equipment that achieves a hydrocarbon control
                  efficiency of at least 95%. If a combustion device is used, it must
                  have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98% for
                  hydrocarbons.

                 VI.D.1.a.(i)   Owners or operators must use enclosed, vapor-tight
                        flowback vessels.

                 VI.D.1.a.(ii) Flowback vessels must be inspected, tested, and
                        refurbished where necessary to ensure the flowback vessel
                        is vapor-tight prior to receiving flowback.

                 VI.D.1.a.(iii) Owners or operators must use a tank measurement
                        system to determine the quantity of liquids in the flowback
                        vessel(s).

                        VI.D.1.a.(iii)(A)      Thief hatches or other access points to
                                the flowback vessel must remain closed and latched
                                during activities to determine the quantity of liquids in
                                the flowback vessel(s).

                        VI.D.1.a.(iii)(B)      Opening the thief hatch or other access
                                point if required to inspect, test, or calibrate the tank
                                measurement system or to add biocides or chemicals
                                is not a violation of Section VI.D.1.a.(ii)(A).

                 VI.D.1.a.(iv) Combustion devices used during pre-production
                        operations must be enclosed, have no visible emissions
                        during normal operation, and be designed so that an
                        observer, by means of visual observation from the outside of
                        the enclosed combustion device, or by other means
                        approved by the Division, determine whether it is operating
                        properly.




                                                                                       312
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                        VI.D.1.a.(iv)(A)      Combustion devices must be equipped
                                with an operational auto-igniter upon installation of the
                                combustion device.

     VI.D.2.     Monitoring

           VI.D.2.a.    Owners or operators of a well with flowback that begins on
                   or after May 1, 2021, must conduct daily visual inspections of the
                   flowback vessel and any associated equipment.

                 VI.D.2.a.(i)   Visual inspection of any thief hatch, pressure relief
                        valve, or other access point to ensure that they are closed
                        and properly seated.

                 VI.D.2.a.(ii) Visual inspection or monitoring of the air pollution
                        control equipment to ensure that it is operating.

                 VI.D.2.a.(iii) Visual inspection of the air pollution control equipment
                        to ensure that the valves for the piping from the flowback
                        vessel to the air pollution control equipment are open.

                 VI.D.2.a.(iv) If a combustion device is used, visual inspection of
                        the auto-igniter and valves for piping of gas to the pilot light
                        to ensure they are functioning properly.

                 VI.D.2.a.(v) If a combustion device is used, inspection of the
                        device for the presence or absence of smoke. If smoke is
                        observed, either the equipment must be immediately shut-in
                        to investigate the potential cause for smoke and perform
                        repairs, as necessary, or EPA Method 22 (January 14, 2019)
                        must be conducted to determine whether visible emissions
                        are present for a period of at least one (1) minute in fifteen
                        (15) minutes.

     VI.D.3.     Recordkeeping




                                                                                        313
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             VI.D.3.a.     The owner or operator of each flowback vessel subject to
                     Section VI.D.1. must maintain records for a period of two (2) years
                     and make them available to the Division upon request, including

                    VI.D.3.a.(i)   The API number of the well and the associated facility
                           location, including latitude and longitude coordinates.

                    VI.D.3.a.(ii) The date and time of the onset of flowback.

                    VI.D.3.a.(iii) The date and time the flowback vessels were
                           permanently disconnected, if applicable.

                    VI.D.3.a.(iii) The date and duration of any period where the air
                           pollution control equipment is not operating.

                    VI.D.3.a.(iv) Records of the inspections required in Section VI.D.2.
                           including the time and date of each inspection, a description
                           of any problems observed, a description and date of any
                           corrective action(s) taken, and the name of the employee or
                           third party performing corrective action(s).

                    VI.D.3.a.(v) Where a combustion device is used, the date and
                           result of any EPA Method 22 (January 14, 2019) test or
                           investigation pursuant to Section VI.D.2.a.(v).

VI.E. Use and Operational Restrictions for Drilling, Pre-Production, and Production
      Operations

      VI.E.1.       Beginning in 2024, owners or operators of drilling and pre-
             production operations in the 8-hour ozone control area or northern Weld
             County conducted between May 1 and September 30 must comply with
             the following use practices.

             VI.E.1.a.     At operations located in a cumulatively impacted community.

                    VI.E.1.a.(i)   Drill rig engines and/or turbines with a manufacturer’s
                           design rate greater than or equal to 50 horsepower must be




                                                                                       314
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         VI.E.1.a.(i)(A)        Powered by grid power or non-fossil fuel
                                  generated power (e.g., solar, geothermal, battery).
                                  For owners or operators utilizing this Section
                                  VI.E.1.a.(i)(A), other associated non-self-propelled
                                  fuel combustion equipment used during drilling,
                                  hydraulic fracturing, or hydraulic refracturing of a well
                                  (e.g., compressors, pumps, boilers, process heaters,
                                  lighting) must be powered by grid power or no-fossil
                                  fuel generated power, where technically feasible;

                         VI.E.1.a.(i)(B)        EPA Tier 4 Final diesel engines, which
                                  can include the use of dual fuel;

                         VI.E.1.a.(i)(C)        Natural gas generators including, but
                                  not limited to, those with battery storage system; or

                         VI.E.1.a.(i)(D)        Other technologies or operational
                                  optimization methods as approved by the Division.

                  VI.E.1.a.(ii)   Pumps used for hydraulic fracturing or refracturing
                         must be powered by

                         VI.E.1.a.(ii)(A)       Electricity, natural gas-fired engines, or
                                  natural gas-fired turbines; or

                         VI.E.1.a.(ii)(B)       Other technologies or operational
                                  optimization methods as approved by the Division.

           VI.E.1.b.     At operations not located in a cumulatively impacted
                   community.

                  VI.E.1.b.(i)    Drill rig engines or turbines with a manufacturer’s
                         design rate greater than or equal to 50 horsepower must be:

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(A)        Powered by grid power or non-fossil fuel
                                  generated power (e.g., solar, geothermal, battery);




                                                                                         315
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(B)        EPA Tier 4 Final diesel engines, which
                                  can include the use of dual fuel;

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(C)        In calendar years 2024 and 2025, Tier II
                                  dual fuel engines;

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(D)        Tier II diesel engine combined with
                                  operational practices guaranteed by the manufacturer
                                  to be Tier IV compliant;

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(E)        Natural gas generators including, but
                                  not limited to, those with battery storage system; or

                         VI.E.1.b.(i)(F)        Other technologies or operational
                                  optimization methods as approved by the Division.

                  VI.E.1.b.(ii)   Pumps used for hydraulic fracturing or refracturing
                         must be powered by

                         VI.E.1.b.(ii)(A)       Electricity, natural-gas fired engines, or
                                  natural-gas fired turbines;

                         VI.E.1.b.(ii)(B)       EPA Tier 4 Final diesel engines, which
                                  can include the use of dual fuel; or

                         VI.E.1.b.(ii)(C)       Other technologies or operational
                                  optimization methods as approved by the Division.

           VI.E.1.c.     Beginning calendar year 2026, owners or operators will use
                   the facility location in relation to a cumulatively impacted
                   community as defined in Section VI.A.4.

           VI.E.1.d.     The use practices in Sections VI.E.1.a. and VI.E.1.b. do not
                   apply to emergency engines or turbines providing back-up power
                   in case of unexpected power outages.

           VI.E.1.e.     All engines and turbines used to drill, hydraulically fracture,
                   or hydraulically refracture operations and other associated
                   equipment used during drilling, hydraulic fracturing, or hydraulic


                                                                                        316
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                    refracturing operations must be operated and maintained pursuant
                    to the manufacturing specifications, recommendations, or
                    equivalent to the extent practicable, and consistent with
                    technological limitations and good engineering and maintenance
                    practices.

     VI.E.2.       Beginning in 2024, operators of upstream segment operations (e.g.,
           drilling, pre-production, and well production facilities) in the 8-hour ozone
           control area or northern Weld County must reduce emissions between
           May 1 and September 30 and achieve the following NOx intensity targets.

           VI.E.2.a.      Compliance with the NOx intensity targets will be determined
                    for the applicable year using the following calculation, based on
                    the final report submitted pursuant to Part B, Section V. (i.e.,
                    ONGAEIR).

           NOx intensity = operator May-Sept NOx emissions / (0.42 * calendar year
           kBOE)

           * Operator May-Sept NOx emissions means emissions from all upstream
           segment activities and equipment in which the majority or minority
           operator has a controlling interest. NOx emissions is only allocated to one
           operator for the May-Sept time period.

           VI.E.2.b.      For calendar year 2024,

                   VI.E.2.b.(i)    Majority operator: 0.034 tons NOx/kBOE.

                   VI.E.2.b.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.073 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.c.      For calendar year 2025,

                   VI.E.2.c.(i)    Majority operator: 0.028 tons NOx/kBOE.

                   VI.E.2.c.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.060 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.d.      For calendar year 2026,

                   VI.E.2.d.(i)    Majority operator: 0.027 tons NOx/kBOE.




                                                                                       317
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.E.2.d.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.058 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.e.      For calendar year 2027,

                  VI.E.2.e.(i)    Majority operator: 0.024 tons NOx/kBOE.

                  VI.E.2.e.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.052 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.f. For calendar year 2028,

                  VI.E.2.f.(i)    Majority operator: 0.021 tons NOx/kBOE.

                  VI.E.2.f.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.047 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.g.      For calendar year 2029,

                  VI.E.2.g.(i)    Majority operator: 0.021 tons NOx/kBOE.

                  VI.E.2.g.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.046 tons NOx/kBOE.

           VI.E.2.h.      For calendar year 2023 and each year thereafter,

                  VI.E.2.h.(i)    Majority operator: 0.017 tons NOx/kBOE.

                  VI.E.2.h.(ii)   Minority operator: 0.037 tons NOx/kBOE.

     VI.E.3.      Recordkeeping. The following records for wells drilled on or after
           May 1, 2024, and well production facilities in the 8-hour ozone control area
           or northern Weld County must be kept for a period of five (5) years and
           made available to the Division upon request.

           VI.E.3.a.      For drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic refracturing
                   operations located in a cumulatively impacted community, records
                   demonstrating that the use practices in Section VI.E.1.a. were
                   followed between May 1 and September 30.

           VI.E.3.b.      For drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic refracturing
                   operations not located in a cumulatively impacted community,
                   records demonstrating that the use practices in Section VI.E.1.b.
                   were followed between May 1 and September 30.

           VI.E.3.c.      Records of any engines or turbines used to drill, hydraulically
                   fracture, and hydraulically refracture a well between May 1 and


                                                                                       318
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   September 30, including AIRS number, if applicable; manufacturer
                   model; horsepower; engine configuration; whether the engine or
                   turbine is grid powered, if applicable; and the emissions tier the
                   engine is certified or guaranteed to meet, if applicable.

           VI.E.3.d.     A mapped image of the location of the drilling operations that
                   occurred between May 1 and September 30 in relation to any
                   cumulatively impacted community or disproportionately impacted
                   community within 2000 feet of the drilling operations at the time of
                   the drilling operations.

           VI.E.3.e.     The manufacturer specifications, recommendations, or
                   equivalent specified in Section VI.E.1.c., if applicable.

           VI.E.3.f. Records of NOx emissions from well production facilities and wells
                   drilled and/or hydraulically fractured or refractured between May 1
                   and September 30 and company kBOE.

     VI.E.4.      Reporting. Beginning November 30, 2024, and by November 30
           each year thereafter, the owner or operator of wells drilled on or after May
           1, 2024, and/or well production facilities in the 8-hour ozone control area
           or northern Weld County must submit the following information using a
           Division-approved format.

           VI.E.4.a.     For each drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
                   refracturing operation occurring May 1 through September 30, the
                   report must include, but is not limited to

                  VI.E.4.a.(i)    The location of the operations (i.e., not location per
                         well), including latitude and longitude coordinates, and any
                         associated facility or equipment AIRs number(s).

                  VI.E.4.a.(ii)   An identification of which operations are located
                         within a cumulatively impacted community.

                  VI.E.4.a.(iii) The API number of the well(s), if known.




                                                                                       319
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.E.4.a.(iv) The date and duration of drilling, hydraulic fracturing,
                         and hydraulic refracturing of each well.

                  VI.E.4.a.(v) An identification of any engines or turbines used to
                         drill, hydraulically fracture, and hydraulically refracture a well,
                         including AIRS number, if applicable; manufacturer model;
                         horsepower; engine configuration; whether the engine is grid
                         powered, if applicable; and the emissions tier the engine is
                         certified or guaranteed to meet, if applicable.

                  VI.E.4.a.(vi) Performance test, manufacturer guarantee, or other
                         documentation if claiming a lower emission factor, if
                         applicable.

                  VI.E.4.a.(vii) For drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
                         refracturing operations occurring May 1 through September
                         30 and located in a cumulatively impacted community, a
                         demonstration that the use practices in Section VI.E.1.a.
                         were followed.

                  VI.E.4.a.(viii) For drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
                         refracturing operations not located in a cumulatively
                         impacted community, a demonstration that the use practices
                         in Section VI.E.1.b. were followed.

                  VI.E.4.a.(ix) An interim report of the drilling, hydraulic fracturing,
                         and hydraulic refracturing operation NOx emissions for the
                         time period of May 1 through September 30.

           VI.E.4.b.     For each well production facility operating May 1 through
                   September 30, the report must include, but is not limited to

                  VI.E.4.b.(i)   An identification of each well production facility,
                         including facility name and facility AIRS ID or facility location
                         if the facility does not have an AIRS ID.




                                                                                       320
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.E.4.b.(ii)   An identification of which well production facilities are
                         located within a cumulatively impacted community.

                  VI.E.4.b.(iii) An interim report of the well production facility NOx
                         emissions for the time period of May 1 through September
                         30.

           VI.E.4.c.     Owners or operators of drilling, hydraulic fracturing, hydraulic
                   refracturing operations and well production facilities must submit

                  VI.E.4.c.(i)    The company’s rolling twelve month total kBOE
                         through September 30.

                         VI.E.4.c.(i)(A)        Production can only be allocated to one
                                  operator for the same time period. Operators must
                                  account for production from all oil or natural gas wells
                                  and well production facilities in which the operator
                                  holds the controlling interest. Operators must account
                                  for production during the time in which the operator
                                  holds that controlling interest.

                         VI.E.4.c.(i)(B)        Operators must calculate kBOE by
                                  adding the production of hydrocarbon liquids in
                                  thousand barrels to the proportion of natural gas
                                  (calculated by dividing the million standard cubic feet
                                  (MMscf) volume of natural gas produced by the
                                  conversion rate of 5.8 Mscf/kBOE).

     VI.E.5.      Reporting. Owners or operators must submit an updated report as
           required in Section VI.E.4. with asset transfers impacting the reporting
           year by June 30 of the subsequent year (e.g., an updated report including
           asset transfers impacting 2024 must be submitted by June 30, 2025).

           VI.E.5.a.     Owners or operators that commence drilling, hydraulic
                   fracturing, or hydraulic refracturing operations after May 1 of the
                   compliance year that are transferred or acquired by a different



                                                                                         321
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                      controlling interest must submit documentation of how the NOx
                      emissions between the commencement of drilling, hydraulic
                      fracturing, or hydraulic refracturing and September 30 and the
                      production between commencement of operation and the end of
                      the calendar year will be allocated between the acquiring operator
                      and selling operator for the purposes of determining compliance
                      with the applicable NOx intensity target. The selling operator must
                      also report

                     VI.E.5.a.(i)    Identification of each drilling, hydraulic fracturing,
                            hydraulic refracturing operation transferred (name and AIRS
                            ID, if applicable), the name of the acquiring operator, and the
                            date of closing of the transaction.

                     VI.E.5.a.(ii)   The drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
                            refracturing operation NOx emissions for the time period of
                            May 1 through September 30.

                     VI.E.5.a.(iii) The drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
                            refracturing operation production for the time period of May 1
                            through the end of the calendar year.

VII.   (State Only) Reduction of Emissions from Oil and Natural Gas Midstream
Segment Fuel Combustion Equipment
VII.A. Definitions

       VII.A.1.      Repealed.

       VII.A.2.      Repealed.

       VII.A.3.      Repealed.

       VII.A.4.      “2021 MFCE GHG emissions” means the midstream company’s
              total reported greenhouse gas (GHG) emission in metric tons (mt) of
              carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) from the midstream company’s
              midstream fuel combustion equipment (MFCE) in Colorado in calendar
              year 2021, as identified by the Division in 2024.


                                                                                              322
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VII.A.5.      “Avoided emissions via electrification” means the MFCE GHG
            emissions avoided from electrification projects undertaken by the
            midstream company on or after January 1, 2016, and before July 31,
            2022, as identified by the Division in 2024.

     VII.A.6.      “Controlling interest” means an interest that provides a person,
            either directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the
            management and policies of another person, whether through ownership
            or voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.

     VII.A.7.      “Disproportionately impacted community” (DI community) means
            those communities that meet the definition contained in § 24-4-
            109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F), C.R.S. (May 23, 2023). For purposes of this
            Section VII. disproportionately impacted community means any census
            block group identified in the Air Quality Control Commission Regulation
            Number 3 Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer in Version 1.0 of
            Colorado EnviroScreen.

            VII.A.7.a.    For purposes of Section VII.F.2.b., disproportionately
                    impacted community also means any census block group
                    identified in the Air Quality Control Commission Regulation
                    Number 3 Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer in either
                    Version 1.0 of Colorado EnviroScreen or Version 2.0 of Colorado
                    EnviroScreen Disproportionately Impacted Community Map
                    (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
                    communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”, “People of
                    color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population
                    above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and
                    “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”.

     VII.A.8.      “Front range prioritization area” (FRPA) means the Counties of
            Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, Jefferson,
            Larimer, and Weld.




                                                                                        323
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VII.A.9.     “Harmful air pollutants” for purposes of Section VII. means
            pollutants designated by EPA as criteria pollutants (carbon monoxide,
            lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate pollution (PM) (PM2.5 and
            PM10) and sulfur dioxide) or hazardous air pollutants.

     VII.A.10.    “Midstream company” means a company (or parent company)
            operating midstream fuel combustion equipment (MFCE) in the midstream
            segment. MFCE and emissions from MFCE can only be allocated to one
            midstream company for the same time period. A midstream company with
            the controlling interest in the MFCE is responsible for the MFCE.

     VII.A.11.    “Midstream fuel combustion equipment” (MFCE) means engines,
            turbines, process and other heaters, boilers, and reboilers operated by a
            midstream company in the midstream segment.

     VII.A.12.    “Midstream segment” means the oil and natural gas compression
            segment and the natural gas processing segment upstream of the natural
            gas transmission and storage segment.

     VII.A.13.    “Midstream company-specific emissions cap” (company cap)
            means the CO2e emissions (in metric tons per year) from a midstream
            company’s MFCE in Colorado that the company must not exceed in
            calendar year 2030 and each subsequent year.

     VII.A.14.    Repealed.

     VII.A.15.    Repealed.

     VII.A.16.    “Natural gas processing segment” means the operations engaged
            in the separation of natural gas liquids (NGLs) or non-methane gases from
            produced natural gas, or the separation of NGLs into one or more
            component mixtures. Separation includes one or more of the following:
            forced extraction of natural gas liquids, sulfur and carbon dioxide removal,
            fractionation of NGLs, or the capture of CO2 separated from natural gas
            streams. This segment also includes all residue gas compression
            equipment owned or operated by the natural gas processing plant.



                                                                                    324
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VII.A.17.     “Natural gas transmission and storage segment” includes onshore
            natural gas transmission pipelines, onshore natural gas transmission
            compression, underground natural gas storage, and liquefied natural gas
            (LNG) storage, as these terms are defined in 40 CFR Part 98, Section
            98.230 (October 22, 2015) that are physically located in Colorado.

     VII.A.18.     “New entrant” means a midstream company that did not own or
            operate any MFCE in the midstream segment in Colorado as of
            September 30, 2023, that constructs a new midstream segment facility on
            or after September 30, 2023. As soon as it begins to own or operate
            MFCE, a new entrant becomes a midstream company for purposes of
            Section VII.

     VII.A.19.     Repealed.

     VII.A.20.     “Oil and natural gas compression segment” means the oil and
            natural gas compression, midstream pipelines, and other equipment used
            to collect oil and/or natural gas from gas or oil wells and used to
            compress, dehydrate, sweeten, or transport the oil and/or natural gas to a
            natural gas processing facility, a natural gas transmission pipeline, or to a
            natural gas distribution pipeline. For purposes of Section VII., equipment
            located at a well production facility, including but not limited to
            compressors, is excluded from the oil and natural gas compression
            segment.

     VII.A.21.     “Residue gas” and “residue gas compression” mean, respectively,
            production lease natural gas from which gas liquid products and, in some
            cases, non-hydrocarbon components have been extracted such that it
            meets the specifications set by a pipeline transmission company, and/or a
            distribution company; and the compressors operated by the processing
            facility, whether inside the processing facility boundary fence or outside
            the fence-line, that deliver the residue gas from the processing facility to a
            transmission pipeline.




                                                                                      325
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

VII.B. Beginning January 1, 2022, each midstream company must participate in this
      Section VII. program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from midstream fuel
      combustion equipment by twenty percent (20%) over the 2015 baseline as
      determined by § 25-7-140(2)(a)(II), C.R.S.

VII.C. Repealed.

VII.D. Repealed.

VII.E. Repealed.

VII.F. Midstream segment emissions reduction program.

      VII.F.1.      Beginning February 14, 2025, each midstream company must
             participate in this midstream segment emissions reduction program to
             reduce greenhouse gas emissions from midstream fuel combustion
             equipment (MFCE) in Colorado.

             VII.F.1.a.     Midstream companies owning or operating MFCE in
                      Colorado must achieve an overall midstream segment cap of
                      3,930,228 metric tons CO2e through compliance with company
                      specific emissions caps. Midstream companies must achieve
                      company caps by December 31, 2030, and maintain the company
                      caps each year thereafter.

                    VII.F.1.a.(i)   Company caps are established by the Division
                            pursuant to the following calculations, as of February 14,
                            2025, and as published in the Division’s annual report under
                            Section VII.F.5.

                            VII.F.1.a.(i)(A)    For midstream companies with “2021
                                    MFCE GHG emissions” of 25,000 mt CO2e or less,
                                    the company cap equals the company’s “2021 MFCE
                                    GHG emissions”.

                            VII.F.1.a.(i)(B)    For all other midstream companies, the
                                    company cap equals the smaller of [(“2021 MFCE
                                    GHG emissions” + “avoided emissions via


                                                                                         326
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  electrification”) * (1 - capfactor%) as rounded to the
                                  nearest whole number] or “2021 MFCE GHG
                                  emissions”.

                          VII.F.1.a.(i)(C)       The capfactor% is calculated, where

                                  VII.F.1.a.(i)(C)(1)   For midstream companies with
                                         “2021 MFCE GHG emissions” of 500,000 mt
                                         CO2e or greater, the capfactor% is
                                         22.532666%. For the individual subsidiaries of
                                         a parent company that in aggregate have
                                         “2021 MFCE GHG emissions” of 500,000 of
                                         greater, the cap factor is also 22.532666% for
                                         the parent company of such subsidiaries.

                                  VII.F.1.a.(i)(C)(2)   For all other midstream
                                         companies, the capfactor% equals ((“2021
                                         MFCE GHG emissions” + “avoided emissions
                                         via electrification”) – 25,000) * [(22.532666% -
                                         6.0%) / (500,000 – 25,000)] + 6.0%.

                  VII.F.1.a.(ii) Company caps may be adjusted as provided in
                          Section VII.F.4.

                  VII.F.1.a.(iii) A new entrant must comply with a company cap of
                          zero mt CO2e.

           VII.F.1.b.     The Division will extend a midstream company’s compliance
                    deadline if any of the following occur:

                  VII.F.1.b.(i)   The midstream company requires construction
                          permit(s) or permit modification(s) to comply with Section VII.
                          and submitted a complete permit application to the Division
                          at least twelve (12) months prior to the planned start of
                          construction or modification, but no later than December 31,




                                                                                       327
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                          2028, but has not been issued the relevant permit by
                          December 31, 2029;

                  VII.F.1.b.(ii) If after December 31, 2030, the midstream company
                          requires construction permit(s) or permit modification(s) for
                          continued compliance with Section VII. and submitted a
                          complete permit application to the Division at least twelve
                          (12) months prior to the planned start of construction or
                          modification but has not been issued the relevant permit
                          within twelve (12) months of receipt of the permit application;

                  VII.F.1.b.(iii) The Division approves a midstream company’s
                          demonstration that the midstream company submitted a
                          service application request or other request for service as
                          required by its electric utility by December 31, 2026, but will
                          not have service by December 31, 2029; or

                  VII.F.1.b.(iv) The Division approves a midstream company’s
                          demonstration that, for good cause shown, the midstream
                          company was, or will be, unable to achieve the company cap
                          due to unforeseeable circumstances (e.g., natural disasters)
                          or unavoidable events even if foreseeable (e.g., utility
                          actions subject to Public Utilities Commission approvals or
                          other regulatory restrictions; federal, state, or local permitting
                          delays; or supply chain delays) that are beyond the
                          reasonable control of the midstream company.

           VII.F.1.c.     The Division may exclude temporary emissions from a
                    midstream company’s MFCE for purposes of demonstrating
                    compliance with the midstream company’s company cap if the
                    midstream company demonstrates through the notice specified in
                    Section VII.F.1.c.(iv) that the temporary emissions were a result of
                    actions taken due to electrical grid reliability as provided in
                    Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv).


                                                                                        328
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                 VII.F.1.c.(i)   To curtail onsite electricity consumption at the request
                         of the electricity provider.

                 VII.F.1.c.(ii) To generate onsite electrical power to operate a
                         midstream segment facility’s electrically-powered equipment
                         or to operate backup equipment for a midstream segment
                         facility’s electrically-powered equipment where the electrical
                         power or power quality, such as insufficient voltage, supplied
                         by a third-party electric utility is temporarily insufficient to
                         operate some or all of a midstream segment facility’s
                         equipment.

                 VII.F.1.c.(iii) When the electric power provider serving the
                         midstream operator has issued a public safety shutoff notice
                         for the area in which the midstream facility is located.

                 VII.F.1.c.(iv) When there is a full or partial power outage at the
                         midstream facility.

                 VII.F.1.c.(v) Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of an event
                         specified in Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv), the
                         midstream company must submit a notice to the Division
                         including

                         VII.F.1.c.(v)(A)       The AIRS ID of the MFCE utilized for a
                                 purpose in Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv).

                         VII.F.1.c.(v)(B)       Documentation that the MFCE
                                 emissions were necessary for a purpose in Sections
                                 VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iii). Such documentation
                                 must include verification from the electric utility about
                                 the extent of the public safety power shutoff, power
                                 outage, or time period where the utility asked the
                                 midstream company to curtail electricity usage.




                                                                                            329
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                           VII.F.1.c.(v)(C)       The time the MFCE began and stopped
                                   operating for a purpose in Sections VII.F.1.c.(i)
                                   through VII.F.1.c.(iv).

                           VII.F.1.c.(v)(D)       The total time (in hours) the MFCE
                                   operated throughout the period for a purpose in
                                   Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv).

                           VII.F.1.c.(v)(E)       The total estimated MFCE CO2e
                                   emissions that occurred as a result of a purpose in
                                   Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv).

     VII.F.2.      Compliance methods.

            VII.F.2.a.     A midstream company that does not own or operate MFCE
                     at facilities located in the FRPA as of February 14, 2025, and does
                     not acquire facilities with MFCE located in the FRPA between
                     February 14, 2025, and December 31, 2029, must achieve its
                     company cap by reducing onsite GHG emissions and/or retiring
                     GHG credits.

            VII.F.2.b.     A midstream company that owns or operates MFCE at
                     facilities located in the FRPA as of February 14, 2025, or that
                     acquires facilities with MFCE located in the FRPA between
                     February 14, 2025, and December 31, 2029, must achieve its
                     company cap by reducing onsite GHG emissions from MFCE. The
                     midstream company may retire GHG credits to achieve its
                     company cap if

                   VII.F.2.b.(i)   By no later than January 1, 2029, demonstrates that
                           the midstream company achieved, or will achieve by
                           December 31, 2030, the FRPA-company reduction
                           obligation, which is onsite reductions of CO2e from MFCE at
                           the midstream company’s facilities located in a
                           disproportionately impacted community and/or in the FRPA



                                                                                       330
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                       in an amount equal to or greater than 45% multiplied by the
                       difference between the company’s “2021 MFCE GHG
                       emissions” and the company cap as of February 14, 2025.

                 VII.F.2.b.(ii) By no later than January 1, 2029, demonstrates that
                       the onsite emissions reductions needed to achieve the 45%
                       in Section VII.F.2.b.(i) are not technically or economically
                       feasible,

                       VII.F.2.b.(ii)(A)     If reductions pursuant to Section
                              VII.F.2.b.(i) cannot be achieved, onsite emissions
                              reductions must be achieved from MFCE at any of the
                              midstream company’s facilities, if technically and
                              economically feasible.

                       VII.F.2.b.(ii)(B)     In demonstrating that reductions are not
                              technically or economically feasible, the midstream
                              company must evaluate the following, but not limited
                              to

                              VII.F.2.b.(ii)(B)(1)   The direct costs, including capital
                                      costs and incremental operating costs, of
                                      potential onsite emissions reduction options.

                              VII.F.2.b.(ii)(B)(2)   The benefits of completing the
                                      onsite emissions reductions, including reduced
                                      energy use and reduced emissions over the life
                                      of the emissions reduction options.

                              VII.F.2.b.(ii)(B)(3)   If an evaluated onsite emissions
                                      reduction option involves electrification, the
                                      availability and cost of supplying electric grid
                                      power to the facility or equipment.

                              VII.F.2.b.(ii)(B)(4)   The most recent social cost of
                                      greenhouse gases for which the federal



                                                                                       331
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                         government has determined the cost, except
                                         that the social cost of greenhouse gases that is
                                         used may not be lower than that established by
                                         the Interagency Working Group in 2016 and it
                                         can’t have a discount rate higher than 2.5%,
                                         consistent with the State Air Act as of
                                         December 20, 2024.

                          VII.F.2.b.(ii)(C)     The demonstration requires Division
                                 approval after opportunity for public comment.

            VII.F.2.c.    A midstream company that owns or operates MFCE at
                     facilities located in the FRPA as of February 14, 2025, or that
                     acquires facilities with MFCE located in the FRPA between
                     February 14, 2025, and December 31, 2029, with 2021 MFCE
                     GHG emissions used to calculate the company caps in Section
                     VII.F.1.a.(i) less than 25,000 metric tons CO2e must achieve its
                     company cap by reducing onsite GHG emissions and/or retiring
                     GHG credits.

            VII.F.2.d.    Midstream companies must prioritize reductions at facilities
                     located in a disproportionately impacted community where
                     possible.

     VII.F.3.      Asset transfers.

            VII.F.3.a.    Midstream companies may transfer ownership of a
                     midstream segment facility with a portion of the company cap
                     and/or the FRPA-company reduction obligation. The amount of the
                     company cap transferred applies for the entire year in which the
                     facility and cap are transferred and each year thereafter.

            VII.F.3.b.    A midstream company that transfers ownership of all of that
                     midstream company’s midstream segment facilities in Colorado




                                                                                       332
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     will transfer the total company cap to the transferee midstream
                     company.

            VII.F.3.c.     The transfer of an existing midstream segment facility to a
                     midstream company with no assigned company cap does not
                     make the acquiring midstream company a new entrant.

            VII.F.3.d.     Midstream companies that transfer midstream segment
                     facilities and company caps must submit a notice to the Division
                     within sixty (60) days of the transfer of ownership including

                   VII.F.3.d.(i)    The names of the transferor and transferee
                           midstream companies.

                   VII.F.3.d.(ii) For each facility transferred, the facility name and
                           facility AIRS ID.

                   VII.F.3.d.(iii) The total transferred company cap and/or FRPA
                           reduction obligation.

                   VII.F.3.d.(iv) The date of the transfer of ownership.

            VII.F.3.e.     Following a transfer of company cap or FRPA reduction
                     obligation under Section VII.F.3.a., the Division shall adjust each
                     midstream company’s company cap and/or FRPA reduction
                     obligation as agreed upon by the midstream companies, as set
                     forth below:

                   VII.F.3.e.(i)    The Division will add or subtract, as applicable, the
                           total of the company cap or FRPA reduction obligation that
                           was transferred to or from the midstream company as part of
                           an asset transfer on or after February 14, 2025, as set forth
                           in the notice submitted pursuant to Section VII.F.3.d.

     VII.F.4.      The Division may adjust company caps and the FRPA-company
            reduction obligation




                                                                                         333
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VII.F.4.a.     By adding or subtracting, as applicable, due to asset and/or
                      company cap transfers, including by new entrants.

            VII.F.4.b.     By distributing to any new entrant or other midstream
                      company any amount of 2030 company cap from a midstream
                      company that has permanently ceased operations in Colorado
                      such that the midstream company is no longer subject to
                      Regulation Number 7.

     VII.F.5.       The Division will publish an annual midstream segment information
            report by October 31 of each year, beginning in 2025. The report must
            include

            VII.F.5.a.     A summary of the midstream segment emissions and
                      equipment data received by the Division.

            VII.F.5.b.     A summary of the midstream company project plans for
                      achieving the company caps.

            VII.F.5.c.     A summary of midstream company project plans to achieve
                      emissions reductions from MFCE located in disproportionately
                      impacted communities in and outside of the FRPA.

            VII.F.5.d.     Midstream facility ownership transfers, new entrants, 2021
                      MFCE GHG emissions, and a statement of current company caps
                      and company FRPA-company reduction obligations.

            VII.F.5.e.     An evaluation of the progress of the midstream segment
                      toward the 2030 emissions reduction goal.

            VII.F.5.f.     Any adjustments made under Section VII.F.4. to the
                      midstream segment cap, the midstream segment 2015 baseline,
                      or any company’s 2021 MFCE GHG emissions.

     VII.F.6.       A midstream company may generate, sell, purchase, and retire
            GHG credits through the GHG crediting and tracking system as defined
            and established in Regulation Number 27, Part D to achieve the company
            cap, subject to the following provisions.


                                                                                     334
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           VII.F.6.a.     Midstream companies must adhere to the GHG crediting and
                    tracking system establishment and maintenance clauses in
                    Regulation Number 27, Part D, Section I.

           VII.F.6.b.     Midstream companies must register in the Division’s GHG
                    crediting and tracking system pursuant to Regulation Number 27,
                    Part D by 2028, or within ninety days of becoming subject to
                    Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII.

           VII.F.6.c.     Beginning in reporting year 2028 for emissions in calendar
                    year 2027, a midstream company by March 31 pursuant to Part B,
                    Section V.A.3. will generate one (1) GHG credit for each metric
                    ton of CO2e that the company’s annual direct GHG emissions are
                    less than the midstream company cap.

           VII.F.6.d.     The Division will issue GHG credits to midstream companies
                    that submitted their annual report by March 31 pursuant to Part B,
                    Section V.A.3. on an annual basis beginning in calendar year
                    2028. The Division will credit the GHG crediting and tracking
                    system credit account of an operating midstream company with
                    GHG credits equal to the difference between the midstream
                    company’s annual direct GHG emissions and the midstream
                    company cap if the midstream company has submitted all reports
                    in accordance with Section VII.G., as verified by the Division and
                    has lowered its overall emissions below its company cap.

                  VII.F.6.d.(i)   A midstream company that owns or operates MFCE
                          at facilities located in the FRPA as of February 14, 2025, or
                          that acquires facilities with MFCE located in the FRPA
                          between February 14, 2025, and December 31, 2029,
                          cannot retire GHG credits to satisfy its company cap unless
                          the midstream company complies with the requirements in
                          Section VII.F.2.b.




                                                                                     335
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     VII.F.6.d.(ii) A midstream company which has permanently ceased
                              operations in Colorado may not generate GHG credits.

                     VII.F.6.d.(iii) Each GHG credit issued by the Division in the GHG
                              crediting and tracking system will be uniquely identifiable.

                     VII.F.6.d.(iv) Beginning in 2028, the Division will publish on its
                              website the total amount of any GHG credits credited
                              collectively to the compliance accounts of midstream
                              companies for the previous calendar year and the
                              cumulative surplus or shortfall of credits for that vintage year.

                     VII.F.6.d.(v) GHG credits for midstream companies are subject to
                              the expiration and double-counting requirements in
                              Regulation Number 27, Part D, Sections III.C. and III.D.

             VII.F.6.e.       A midstream company may trade GHG credits pursuant to
                      Regulation Number 27, Part D, Sections III.E. and IV.

             VII.F.6.f.       GHG credit trading between midstream companies and
                      manufacturing stationary sources, as defined in Regulation
                      Number 27, Part A, will be allowed beginning with GHG credits
                      issued in 2028, pursuant to established Division guidance.

VII.G. Recordkeeping and reporting.

      VII.G.1.       Recordkeeping. Midstream companies must maintain the following
             records for a period of five (5) years and make records available to the
             Division upon request.

             VII.G.1.a.       Records of actions taken after January 1, 2022, to reduce
                      CO2e emissions from the midstream company’s MFCE.

             VII.G.1.b.       Records of asset transfers, such as a legally executed bill of
                      sale.




                                                                                           336
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VII.G.1.c.      Records of project plans (e.g., best management practices,
                    control method, emissions reduction strategies, technologies) to
                    achieve the company cap.

            VII.G.1.d.      Records, if applicable, of a demonstration approved
                    pursuant to Section VII.F.2.b.(ii).

     VII.G.2.      Reporting. Midstream companies must submit an annual report
            covering the previous calendar year to the Division by June 30 of each
            year (beginning June 30, 2025) using a Division-approved report format
            that includes

            VII.G.2.a.      The reporting midstream company’s name, subsidiary
                    midstream company name(s), physical street address, and name
                    and contact information of the company representative, for
                    reporting purposes.

            VII.G.2.b.      The date of submittal and the year covered by the report.

            VII.G.2.c.      The facility name, AIRS ID (if applicable), location (with
                    coordinates) of each of the reporting midstream company’s
                    midstream segment facilities, and whether the facility is located in
                    a disproportionately impacted community or in the FRPA.

            VII.G.2.d.      Total annual GHG emissions reported pursuant to Part B,
                    Section V. in metric tons of CO2e from all MFCE owned or
                    operated by the midstream company.

                   VII.G.2.d.(i) State-wide;

                   VII.G.2.d.(ii) Located within a disproportionately impacted
                            community; and

                   VII.G.2.d.(iii) Located in the FRPA.

            VII.G.2.e.      A description of the midstream company’s current project
                    plans (e.g., best management practices, control method,




                                                                                         337
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                    emissions reduction strategies, technologies)) to achieve the
                    company cap. The company must explain

                  VII.G.2.e.(i) Project locations and impacted MFCE;

                  VII.G.2.e.(ii) Which engines, by AIRS ID, will utilize the exemption
                         at Regulation Number 26, Part B, Section I.D.6.a.(vi)(E);

                  VII.G.2.e.(iii) Approximate timelines for project commencement and
                         completion;

                  VII.G.2.e.(iv) Estimated annual reductions in CO2e and harmful air
                         pollutants expected to be achieved by the projects;

                  VII.G.2.e.(v) Estimated annual reductions expected to be achieved
                         by the projects in disproportionately impacted communities
                         both in and outside of the FRPA;

                  VII.G.2.e.(vi) Supporting documentation for long-duration projects
                         that are planned or underway; and

                  VII.G.2.e.(vii) Until a project is implemented and reflected in the
                         reporting under Section VII.G.2.g., the midstream company
                         must describe material changes in project plans since the
                         previous year’s reported plans.

           VII.G.2.f.    A description of the midstream company’s completed
                    projects including the identification of the MFCE impacted (by
                    location name and AIRS ID), whether the MFCE is located in a
                    disproportionately impacted community or in the FRPA, date(s) of
                    project completion, and achieved reductions in emissions of CO2e
                    and harmful air pollutants.

           VII.G.2.g.    For all midstream facilities where an ownership transfer
                    occurred in the previous calendar year, a copy of the notice
                    submitted to the Division pursuant to Section VII.F.3.d.




                                                                                        338
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              VII.G.2.h.     Documentation of GHG credits generated in the GHG
                       crediting and tracking trading system in the applicable period.

              VII.G.2.i.     Documentation of GHG credits retired prior to expiration in
                       the GHG crediting and tracking trading system for compliance
                       purposes in the applicable period.

              VII.G.2.j.     Documentation, if applicable, of the demonstration in Section
                       VII.F.2.b.(i) that the midstream company achieved, or will achieve
                       by December 31, 2030, onsite reductions of CO2e from MFCE at
                       the midstream company’s facilities located in a disproportionately
                       impacted community and/or in the FRPA in an amount equal to or
                       greater than 45% multiplied by the difference between the
                       company’s “2021 MFCE GHG emissions” and the company cap.

              VII.G.2.k.     Documentation, if applicable, of progress made toward the
                       resolution of the event(s) or action(s) in the demonstration in
                       Section VII.F.1.b.

              VII.G.2.l.     A copy of the notice submitted to the Division pursuant to
                       Section VII.F.1.c. and documentation, if applicable, that the
                       midstream company cannot achieve it’s company cap due to
                       temporary emissions that occurred due to a purpose provided in
                       Sections VII.F.1.c.(i) through VII.F.1.c.(iv).

              VII.G.2.m.     A certification by the company representative that supervised
                       the development and submission of the annual report that, based
                       on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the
                       statements and information in the document are true, accurate,
                       and complete.

VIII.   (State Only) Greenhouse Gas Intensity Program for Oil and Natural Gas
Upstream Segment
VIII.A. Definitions




                                                                                          339
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VIII.A.1.     “Calendar year” means January 1 up through and including
            December 31 of the year.

     VIII.A.2.     “Certified third-party auditor” means a person tasked with
            performing an environmental audit of an operator’s Oil and Natural Gas
            Annual Emission Inventory Reports (ONGAEIR). The certified third-party
            auditor must have expertise in the area of emission calculation
            methodologies. The certified third-party auditor must be qualified to
            perform such audits, as determined by the Division. The certified third-
            party auditor must not have supervised or been responsible for the
            ONGAEIR calculations, permitting, or compliance support for that operator
            being audited.

     VIII.A.3.     “Co-benefits” for this Section VIII. means the reduction of harmful
            air pollutants in disproportionately impacted communities.

     VIII.A.4.     “Commencement of operation” means when a source first conducts
            the activity that it was designed and permitted for. In addition, for oil and
            gas well production facilities, commencement of operation is the date any
            permanent production equipment is in use and product is consistently
            flowing to sales lines, gathering lines, or storage tanks from the first
            producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well
            completion operations (including flowback).

     VIII.A.5.     “Controlling interest” for this Section VIII. means an interest that
            provides a person, either directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause
            the direction of the management and policies of another person, whether
            through ownership or voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.

     VIII.A.6.     “Direct measurement” means regional, local, stationary source, or
            air pollution source monitoring of methane emissions used to quantify
            emissions of greenhouse gasses.

     VIII.A.7.     “Disproportionately impacted community” (DI community) means




                                                                                          340
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VIII.A.7.a.   From January 20, 2022, to April 14, 2025, census block
                     groups designated as DI communities in CDPHE’s draft Data
                     Viewer for Disproportionately Impacted Communities in Colorado
                     (as of December 17, 2021, at:
                     https://cohealthviz.dphe.state.co.us/t/EnvironmentalEpidemiology
                     Public/views/EJActDICommunities-Public/HB21-
                     1266DICommunities?%3AshowAppBanner=false&%3Adisplay_co
                     unt=n&%3AshowVizHome=n&%3Aorigin=viz_share_link&%3AisG
                     uestRedirectFromVizportal=y&%3Aembed=y) consistent with 24-
                     4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (2021). A complete list of these census
                     block groups by 12-digit FIPS code will be maintained by the
                     Division and made publicly available

            VIII.A.7.b.   Beginning April 14, 2025, communities that meet the
                     definition in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. (2023).
                     These communities are identified as any census block group
                     identified in the Disproportionately Impacted Community Map
                     (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
                     communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”, “People of
                     color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population
                     above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and
                     “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”.

     VIII.A.8.     “Drill-out” means the process of removing the plugs placed during
            hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. Drill-out ends after the removal of all
            stage plugs and the initial wellbore clean-up.

     VIII.A.9.     “Drilling” or “drilled” means the process to bore a hole to create a
            well for oil and/or natural gas production.

     VIII.A.10.    “Flowback” means the process of allowing fluids and entrained
            solids to flow from a well following stimulation, either in preparation for a
            subsequent phase of treatment or in preparation for cleanup and placing
            the well into production. The term flowback also means the fluids and


                                                                                        341
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            entrained solids flowing from a well after drilling or hydraulic fracturing or
            refracturing. Flowback ends when all temporary flowback equipment is
            removed from service. Flowback does not include drill-out.

     VIII.A.11.    “Greenhouse gas intensity” means the sum of preproduction
            emissions and production emissions in a calendar year in mtCO2e divided
            by the kBOE for that calendar year, calculated pursuant to Sections VIII.D.
            and VIII.F.

     VIII.A.12.    “Harmful air pollutants” for purposes of Section VIII. means
            pollutants designated by EPA as criteria pollutants (carbon monoxide,
            lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate pollution (PM) (PM2.5 and
            PM10) and sulfur dioxide) or hazardous air pollutants.

     VIII.A.13.    “Hydraulic fracturing” means the process of directing pressurized
            fluids containing any combination of water, proppant, and any added
            chemicals to penetrate tight formations, such as shale, coal, and tight
            sand formations, that subsequently require flowback to expel fracture
            fluids and solids.

     VIII.A.14.    “Hydraulic refracturing” means conducting a subsequent hydraulic
            fracturing operation at a well that has previously undergone a hydraulic
            fracturing operation.

     VIII.A.15.    “Intensity operator” means a person or entity that operates
            upstream segment activities or equipment. For purposes of Section VIII.,
            where a person or entity holds a controlling interest in more than one
            intensity operator, that person or entity is the intensity operator of all
            upstream segment activities and equipment in which that person or entity
            has a controlling interest.

     VIII.A.16.    “kBOE” means production of hydrocarbon liquids and natural gas,
            measured in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent.




                                                                                         342
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     VIII.A.17.    “mtCO2e” means metric tons (mt) of carbon dioxide equivalent,
            using 100-year global warming potential values from the IPCC Fifth
            Assessment Report, 2014 (AR5).

     VIII.A.18.    “Majority operator” means (1) an intensity operator with company-
            wide production in Colorado in calendar year 2022 of greater than or equal
            to 10,000 kBOE; (2) a new to market operator whose first transaction(s) in
            Colorado is to purchase the assets of a majority operator; (3) a new to
            market operator for which the total level of production from all assets
            acquired or developed in that calendar year exceeds 10,000 kBOE; (4) a
            new to market operator who has not purchased assets from a majority or
            minority operator and who commences operation of a well production
            facility after January 1, 2023; and (5) a minority operator that becomes a
            majority operator pursuant to Section VIII.B.6.

     VIII.A.19.    “Measurement-informed inventory” means the greenhouse gas
            emissions inventory from the Oil and Natural Gas Annual Emission
            Inventory Reports (ONGAEIR) informed by direct measurement and,
            optionally, parametric measurement.

     VII.A.20.     “Measurement strategy” means the strategy that describes how an
            intensity operator uses direct measurement and, optionally, parametric
            measurement to inform reported greenhouse gas emissions in ONGAEIR.

     VIII.A.21.    “Midstream segment” means the oil and natural gas compression
            segment and the natural gas processing segment that are physically
            located in Colorado and that are upstream of the natural gas transmission
            and storage segment.

     VIII.A.22.    “Minority operator” means an intensity operator with company-wide
            production of hydrocarbon liquids and natural gas in Colorado in calendar
            year 2022 of less than 10,000 kBOE. Minority operator also means a new
            to market operator whose first transaction(s) in Colorado is to purchase
            the assets of a minority operator, as long as the total level of production
            from all assets acquired or developed by (in the case of new well


                                                                                      343
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            production facilities) of the new to market operator in that calendar year
            does not exceed 10,000 kBOE.

     VIII.A.23.    “New to market operator” means an owner or operator that did not
            produce any oil or natural gas in Colorado in calendar years 2021 or 2022
            or own or operate any well production facility in Colorado as of December
            31, 2022. A new to market operator that becomes a majority operator as
            defined in Section VIII.A.16. or a minority operator as defined in Section
            VIII.A.18. is no longer a new to market operator.

     VIII.A.24.    “Oil and Natural Gas Annual Emission Inventory Reports
            (ONGAEIR)” means the annual emissions inventory reports required in
            Regulation Number 7, Part B, Sections II.G.3 and V for oil and gas
            segment emissions.

     VIII.A.25.    “Parametric Measurement” means regional, local, stationary
            source, or air pollution source monitoring of pressure, temperature, flow
            rate, control efficiency, or other operational characteristics used to inform
            quantification of greenhouse gas emissions.

     VIII.A.26.    “Preproduction emissions” means the greenhouse gas emitted from
            an oil or natural gas well and associated equipment and activities during
            the construction and operation of the oil or natural gas well until the well
            commences operation, including from the drilling through the hydrocarbon
            bearing zones, hydraulic fracturing or refracturing, drill-out, and flowback
            of the oil and/or natural gas well.

     VIII.A.27.    “Production emissions” means the greenhouse gas emitted from an
            oil or natural gas well and associated equipment and activities after the
            well commences operation.

     VIII.A.28.    “State default intensity verification factor” means the methane factor
            developed to account for the difference (if any) in monitored methane
            emissions and reported methane emissions and used in the calculation of
            greenhouse gas intensity.



                                                                                       344
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

      VIII.A.29.    “Upstream segment” means oil and natural gas exploration and
             production operations physically located in Colorado upstream of the
             midstream segment.

      VIII.A.30.    “Well production facility” means all equipment at a single stationary
             source directly associated with one or more oil wells or natural gas wells
             upstream of the natural gas processing plant. This equipment includes,
             but is not limited to, equipment used for storage, separation, treating,
             dehydration, artificial lift, combustion, compression, pumping, metering,
             monitoring, and flowline.

VIII.B. Greenhouse gas intensity targets for the upstream segment.

      VIII.B.1.     Beginning January 1, 2023, intensity operators must participate in
             this greenhouse gas intensity program to reduce preproduction and
             production emissions in Colorado. An intensity operator that fails to
             achieve any of the applicable targets in Section VIII.B. must achieve
             additional reductions in preproduction and/or production emissions in the
             subsequent calendar year to address the difference between the intensity
             operator’s reported greenhouse gas intensity for that calendar year and
             the applicable target.

      VIII.B.2.     For calendar year 2025, intensity operators subject to Section
             VIII.B.1. must achieve the following greenhouse gas intensity targets for
             preproduction and production emissions.

             VIII.B.2.a.    Majority Operator: 10.94 mtCO2e/kBOE.

             VIII.B.2.b.    Minority Operator: 34.39 mtCO2e/kBOE.

             VIII.B.2.c.    Operators with less than 45 kBOE in calendar year 2025: no
                      intensity target.

      VIII.B.3.     For calendar year 2027, intensity operators subject to Section
             VIII.B.1. must achieve the following greenhouse gas intensity targets for
             preproduction and production emissions.

             VIII.B.3.a.    Majority Operator: 8.46 mtCO2e/kBOE.


                                                                                        345
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VIII.B.3.b.   Minority Operator: 26.60 mtCO2e/kBOE.

            VIII.B.3.c.   Operators with less than 45 kBOE in both calendar years
                     2026 and 2027: no intensity target.

     VIII.B.4.     For calendar year 2030, intensity operators subject to Section
            VIII.B.1. must achieve the following greenhouse gas intensity targets for
            preproduction and production emissions.

            VIII.B.4.a.   Majority Operator: 6.80 mtCO2e/kBOE.

            VIII.B.4.b.   Minority Operator: 21.38 mtCO2e/kBOE.

     VIII.B.5.     In calendar years 2026, 2028, and 2029, intensity operators subject
            to Section VIII.B.1. must achieve a greenhouse gas intensity less than or
            equal to the applicable preceding year target in Sections VIII.B.2. and
            VIII.B.3. (e.g., for calendar year 2026 achieve at least the target for
            calendar year 2025).

     VIII.B.6.     If, in any calendar year beginning 2023, a minority operator

            VIII.B.6.a.   Has production of greater than or equal to 10,000 kBOE or

            VIII.B.6.b.   Has production that represents an increase over production
                     in the prior calendar year by greater than or equal to 2,500 kBOE
                     (e.g., if production is 2,500 kBOE higher in 2023 than it was in
                     2022), then

            VIII.B.6.c.   Beginning the calendar year after the applicable
                     circumstances under Sections VIII.B.6.a. or VIII.B.6.b., unless
                     otherwise approved by the Division, the minority operator
                     becomes a majority operator and must comply with the applicable
                     majority operator greenhouse gas intensity targets for all its
                     upstream segment operations for that year and all remaining
                     years through 2030.

     VIII.B.7.     Acquisitions. Except as provided, if an owner or operator acquires
            or takes over operation of an oil or natural gas well in Colorado after



                                                                                        346
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              January 1, 2025, that owner or operator must meet the greenhouse gas
              intensity targets in Sections VIII.B.2. through VIII.B.5. applicable to the
              intensity operator acquiring the assets.

              VIII.B.7.a.    If a majority operator merges with, acquires, or takes over
                       operation of an oil or natural gas well in Colorado from a minority
                       operator on or after January 1, 2025, the majority operator (or
                       surviving entity) must at least comply with the applicable minority
                       operator greenhouse gas intensity target for the preproduction
                       and production emissions from the acquired well(s) for the
                       calendar year of the acquisition. Beginning with the calendar year
                       after the acquisition, the applicable majority owner or operator
                       must comply with the applicable majority operator greenhouse gas
                       intensity targets for the preproduction and production emissions
                       from all its upstream segment operations, including the acquired
                       well(s).

              VIII.B.7.b.    If a minority operator acquires or takes over operation of an
                       oil or natural gas well in Colorado from a majority operator on or
                       after January 1, 2025, the minority operator must at least comply
                       with the applicable minority operator greenhouse gas intensity
                       target for the preproduction and production emissions from the
                       acquired well(s) for the calendar years of and after the acquisition,
                       after which the minority operator greenhouse gas intensity targets
                       apply to all assets of the minority operator, including the acquired
                       assets (unless the minority operator has become a majority
                       operator).

VIII.C. New facility intensity targets.

       VIII.C.1.      Beginning January 1, 2023, intensity operators of well production
              facilities that commence operation after December 31, 2022, must also
              meet the new facility intensity target(s) for those facilities as set forth in
              Sections VIII.C.2. through VIII.C.4. in the calendar year of and the


                                                                                               347
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            calendar year after the well production facility commences operation.
            These targets are in addition to the targets applicable to all of the intensity
            operator’s upstream segment operations as specified in Section VIII.B.

            VIII.C.1.a.   For purposes of Section VIII.C., “new facility intensity”
                     means the production emissions in CO2e from all well production
                     facilities commencing operation in a calendar year divided by the
                     production of hydrocarbon liquid and natural gas from those
                     facilities in kBOE for that calendar year.

            VIII.C.1.b.   Well production facilities identified as located in a
                     disproportionately impacted community for purposes of Section
                     VIII.C.2. must continue to meet the new facility intensity targets for
                     well production facilities located in a disproportionately impacted
                     community in Sections VIII.C.3.

            VIII.C.1.c.   If the community that a well production facility subject to this
                     Section VIII.C. is located in becomes identified as a
                     disproportionately impacted community as of April 14, 2025, and
                     the well production facility commences operation in calendar year
                     2026, the facility becomes subject to the new facility intensity
                     target for well production facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone
                     Control Area and in a disproportionately impacted community in
                     calendar year 2027.

     VIII.C.2.     For calendar years 2023 through 2025, the new facility intensity
            target is 8.59 mtCO2e/kBOE, unless the well production facility is located
            in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and in a disproportionately impacted
            community, then the new facility intensity target is 7.7 mtCO2e/kBOE.

     VIII.C.3.     For calendar years 2026 through 2027, the new facility intensity
            target is 6.64 mtCO2e/kBOE, unless the well production facility is located
            in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and in a disproportionately impacted
            community, then the new facility intensity target is 6.0 mtCO2e/kBOE.




                                                                                         348
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

      VIII.C.4.     For calendar years 2028 through 2030, the new facility intensity
             target is 5.34 mtCO2e/kBOE, unless the well production facility is located
             in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and in a disproportionately impacted
             community, then the new facility intensity target is 4.8 mtCO2e/kBOE.

VIII.D. Accounting for production kBOE, preproduction emissions, and production
      emissions.

      VIII.D.1.     Production can only be allocated to one intensity operator for the
             same time period. Intensity operators must account for production from all
             oil or natural gas wells and well production facilities in which the intensity
             operator holds the controlling interest. Intensity operators must account for
             production during the time in which the intensity operator holds that
             controlling interest.

      VIII.D.2.     Intensity operators must calculate kBOE by adding the production
             of hydrocarbon liquids in thousand barrels to the proportion of natural gas
             (calculated by dividing the million standard cubic feet (MMscf) volume of
             natural gas produced by the conversion rate of 5.8 MMscf/kBOE).

      VIII.D.3.     The intensity operator that reports the preproduction emissions and
             production emissions for upstream segment activities and equipment must
             report the kBOE associated with those activities and equipment.

VIII.E. Intensity operator greenhouse gas intensity plans.

      VIII.E.1.     Greenhouse gas intensity plans must be submitted on a Division-
             approved format and must contain, at a minimum

             VIII.E.1.a.    An identification of all the intensity operator’s well production
                      facilities, including facility name; facility AIRS ID, or facility location
                      if the facility does not have an AIRS ID; entity listed as the
                      operator for all well production facilities covered by the
                      greenhouse gas intensity plan for which production is included as
                      specified under Section VIII.D.1.; and an identification of which




                                                                                            349
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                     facilities are located within a disproportionately impacted
                     community.

            VIII.E.1.b.   The intensity operator’s greenhouse gas intensity company-
                     wide and per well production facility for the preceding calendar
                     year, including intensity calculation methodology in accordance
                     with Section VIII.F2.

            VIII.E.1.c.   A list and description of the best management practices
                     (BMPs), control methods, emission reduction strategies, and
                     technologies the intensity operator intends to use to meet the
                     applicable targets in Section IV.B.2. on a site-specific basis.

            VIII.E.1.d.   An estimate of the greenhouse gas emission reductions that
                     each type of BMP, control method, emission reduction strategy, or
                     technology is expected to achieve on a company-wide mass basis
                     and on a company-wide greenhouse gas intensity basis, including
                     calculation methods.

            VIII.E.1.e.   A description of which BMPs, control methods, emission
                     reduction strategies, and technologies will be deployed in
                     disproportionately impacted communities, and a demonstration
                     that intensity operators will prioritize co-benefits.

     VIII.E.2.     Greenhouse gas intensity plan submittal deadlines.

            VIII.E.2.a.   By August 31, 2023, each intensity operator subject to
                     Section VIII.B.1. must submit to the Division a proposed
                     greenhouse gas intensity plan demonstrating how the intensity
                     operator intends to meet the applicable greenhouse gas intensity
                     targets in Section VIII.B.2.

            VIII.E.2.b.   By June 30, 2026, each intensity operator subject to Section
                     VIII.B.1. must submit to the Division a greenhouse gas intensity
                     plan demonstrating how the intensity operator will meet the
                     applicable greenhouse gas intensity targets in Section VIII.B.3.



                                                                                        350
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VIII.E.2.c.   By June 30, 2028, each intensity operator subject to Section
                     VIII.B.1. must submit to the Division a greenhouse gas intensity
                     plan demonstrating how the intensity operator will meet the
                     applicable greenhouse gas intensity targets in Section VIII.B.4.

     VIII.E.3.     Asset transfer updates.

            VIII.E.3.a.   Section VIII.E.3. applies whenever ownership or operation of
                     an oil or natural gas well or well production facility is transferred
                     after August 31, 2024. The operator taking over operation of the
                     oil or natural gas well or well production facility is referred to
                     herein as the “acquiring operator”. The intensity operator from
                     whom ownership or operation is transferred is referred to as the
                     “selling operator.”

            VIII.E.3.b.   If the transaction involves any well production facility for
                     which the selling operator’s greenhouse gas intensity plan
                     submitted under Section VIII.E.2. provides for implementation of
                     any BMP, control method, emission reduction strategy, or
                     technology, then within thirty (30) days of closing of the
                     transaction.

                   VIII.E.3.b.(i) The selling operator must submit an update to its
                          greenhouse gas intensity plan that:

                          VIII.E.3.b.(i)(A)       Identifies each well production facility
                                    transferred (name and AIRS ID, if applicable), the
                                    name of the acquiring operator, and the date of
                                    closing of the transaction.

                          VIII.E.3.b.(i)(B)       Includes a quantification of the emission
                                    reductions that would have been achieved at each
                                    well production facility involved in the transaction
                                    under the greenhouse gas intensity plan consistent




                                                                                           351
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                              with the calculation methods used in Section
                              VIII.E.1.d.

                       VIII.E.3.b.(i)(C)    Includes a demonstration that the selling
                              operator will still meet its greenhouse gas intensity
                              targets and identifies any additional BMPs, control
                              method, emission reduction strategy, and
                              technologies consistent with Section VIII.E.1.

                 VIII.E.3.b.(ii) The acquiring operator must submit an update to its
                       greenhouse gas intensity plan (or, in the event the acquiring
                       operator is also a new to market operator, the acquiring
                       operator must submit a new greenhouse gas intensity plan)
                       that, for each well production facility involved in the
                       transaction

                       VIII.E.3.b.(ii)(A)   Identifies the well production facility
                              transferred (name and AIRS ID, if applicable), the
                              name of the selling operator, and the date of closing
                              of the transaction.

                       VIII.E.3.b.(ii)(B)   Commits to implementing the same
                              BMP, control method, emission reduction strategy,
                              and technology provided for in the selling operator’s
                              plan on the same schedule; or

                       VIII.E.3.b.(ii)(C)   Quantifies the emission reductions that
                              would have been achieved under the selling
                              operator’s greenhouse gas intensity plan consistent
                              with the calculation methods used in Section
                              VIII.E.1.d. and identifies how the acquiring operator
                              will achieve equal or greater emission reductions at
                              the same or other well production facilities involved in
                              the transaction (or, if approved by the Division, at




                                                                                      352
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                    other of the acquiring operator’s well production
                                    facilities) on the same schedule.

VIII.F. Verification through achievement of a measurement-informed inventory.

      VIII.F.1.     [Repealed as on July 21, 2023]

      VIII.F.2.     Applicability

             VIII.F.2.a.   Intensity operators must comply with Section VIII.F.3. to
                      calculate greenhouse gas intensity and new facility intensity for:

                    VIII.F.2.a.(i) Greenhouse Gas Intensity Plans submitted pursuant
                           to Section VIII.E.2.b and VIII.E.2.c; and

                    VIII.F.2.a.(ii) Annual reports as required in VIII.G. submitted in
                           2026 through 2031.

             VIII.F.2.b.   The requirements of Section VIII.F.2.a do not apply to
                      calculations of new facility greenhouse gas intensity pursuant to
                      Section VIII.C for 2023 and 2024 as reported in annual reports as
                      required in VIII.G. submitted in 2024 and 2025.

      VIII.F.3.     Greenhouse Gas Intensity Verification Calculation Methodology to
             Demonstrate Compliance with the Greenhouse Gas Intensity Targets in
             Sections VIII.B and VIII.C.

      Intensity operators must comply with either Section VIII.F.3.a or Section VIII.F.3.b
      to develop a measurement-informed inventory used to demonstrate compliance
      with the intensity operator’s required greenhouse gas intensity.

             VIII.F.3.a.   State Default Intensity Verification Factor

             Starting in 2024, by December 31 of each year through 2029, the Division
             will publish one or more state default intensity verification factors valid for
             the following calendar year. Intensity operators must apply a state default
             intensity verification factor to their ONGAEIR methane emissions, as
             outlined by the Division, unless the operator elects to use an operator-
             specific program pursuant to Section VIII.F.3.b.


                                                                                         353
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           VIII.F.3.b.   Operator-Specific Programs

           As an alternative to the state default intensity verification factor outlined in
           Section VIII.F.3.a., operators may utilize an operator-specific program. The
           operator-specific program must include:

                  VIII.F.3.b.(i) A measurement strategy.

                         VIII.F.3.b.(i)(A)      For calendar years 2025 and 2026,
                                 intensity operators must use a measurement strategy
                                 developed by the Division. Starting in calendar year
                                 2027, operators may use a measurement strategy
                                 developed by either the Division or the intensity
                                 operator.

                                 VIII.F.3.b.(i)(A)(1)   The Division will develop, in
                                        accordance with VIII.F.4., a list of approved
                                        measurement strategies that are sufficient to
                                        achieve a robust measurement-informed
                                        inventory, which will be published in the
                                        Intensity Verification Protocol.

                                 VIII.F.3.b.(i)(A)(2)   Intensity operators may develop
                                        their own measurement strategy for use
                                        beginning in calendar year 2027. Intensity
                                        operators must submit their measurement
                                        strategy to the Division for review and approval
                                        by March 31 of the year prior to which the
                                        intensity operator intends to implement the
                                        measurement strategy. The Division must
                                        review operator-developed measurement
                                        strategies, and within 90 days, may either
                                        approve the strategy, require revisions to the
                                        strategy, or deny the strategy. If the Division
                                        denies approval of the measurement strategy,


                                                                                        354
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      the intensity operator may either use the state
                                      default intensity verification factor or a Division-
                                      developed measurement strategy.

                       VIII.F.3.b.(i)(B)     The measurement strategy must define
                              how direct measurement and, where it is used,
                              parametric measurement informs reporting of
                              emissions, considering: the appropriateness of the
                              selected measurement technology or methodology,
                              including the minimum detection limit;
                              representativeness of monitoring sites; emission rates
                              and probability of detection of the monitoring
                              technology; variability of emissions over time; and
                              other reasonable and necessary monitoring
                              considerations as determined by the Division.

                       VIII.F.3.b.(i)(C)     The measurement strategy must include
                              direct measurements at the site-level.

                       VIII.F.3.b.(i)(D)     The direct measurement technology(ies)
                              used across the intensity operator’s assets must be fit
                              for purpose, capture a sufficient portion of expected
                              emissions, and be validated with appropriate testing.

                       VIII.F.3.b.(i)(E)     The measurement strategy must include
                              an operation and maintenance plan in accordance
                              with the manufacturer recommendations for
                              monitoring technology or as developed by the
                              operator to ensure the accuracy of the measurement
                              strategy.

                       VIII.F.3.b.(i)(F)     Measurement strategies must be
                              reviewed annually and updated as necessary to
                              demonstrate compliance with Section VIII.F.3.b.(i).




                                                                                      355
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                   VIII.F.3.b.(ii) An audit of the measurement-informed inventory for
                           calendar years 2025, 2027, and 2030. No later than
                           December 31 of the following calendar year, a certified third
                           party auditor will provide a summarized report of their
                           findings and recommendations as relates to the reporting of
                           greenhouse gas emissions. The audit must include review
                           of:

                           VIII.F.3.b.(ii)(A)     Greenhouse gas emission calculations
                                   reported in ONGAEIR,

                           VIII.F.3.b.(ii)(B)     Monitoring records collected under the
                                   measurement strategy required in VIII.F.3.b.(i),

                   VIII.F.3.b.(ii)(C)      Records maintained in support of monitoring,
                           testing, and reporting requirements of Regulation 7 that
                           affect the operator’s ONGAEIR.

                   VIII.F.3.b.(iii) The Division may review operator-specific programs,
                           and may either require revisions to the program or deny the
                           program and require an operator to use the state default
                           intensity verification factor.

     VIII.F.4.     Intensity Verification Protocol

     The Division will create and maintain a protocol for intensity verification with the
     information contained in these Sections VIII.F. and VIII.G. The Division will review
     the protocol annually, and identify needed revisions. Any revisions must be
     published by June 30 of the calendar year preceding the verification year. Upon
     any revisions to the protocol beyond those that are administrative in nature, the
     Division must provide an opportunity for public participation. This includes:

            VIII.F.4.a.    A minimum of a 30-day public comment period.

            VIII.F.4.b.    A minimum of 2 public meetings for presentation of revisions
                     and/or to accept public feedback.

     VIII.F.5.     Recordkeeping


                                                                                       356
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             VIII.F.5.a.   Where Section VIII.F.3.b. applies, owners or operators must
                      maintain records, including the measurement strategy and any
                      subsequent updates and make them available to the Division
                      upon request. In addition, for a period of five years, owners or
                      operators must maintain the following records, or contract for
                      access to such records as applicable, and make them available to
                      the Division upon request:

                    VIII.F.5.a.(i) Records created by the measurement strategy,
                           including the data associated with each monitoring
                           technology and/or the monitoring report from the monitoring
                           contractor.

                    VIII.F.5.a.(ii) Records of calibration of any equipment used in the
                           measurement strategy, including the date(s) of the
                           calibration.

                    VIII.F.5.a.(iii) Records of maintenance of any equipment used in the
                           measurement strategy, including the date(s) and a
                           description of the corrective actions.

             VIII.F.5.b.   Where Section VIII.F.3.b. applies, owners or operators must
                      maintain the following records for a minimum of 5 years. Records
                      must be made available to the Division upon request.

                    VIII.F.5.b.(i) Records of the complete submission to the certified
                           third-party auditor.

                    VIII.F.5.b.(ii) Records of reports created by certified third-party
                           auditors.

                    VIII.F.5.b.(iii) Records of actions taken in response to third-party
                           audit.

VIII.G. Reporting

      VIII.G.1.     Summary of measurement strategy



                                                                                          357
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     By September 30 of 2024 through 2029 for the next calendar year, intensity
     operators must notify the Division if the intensity operator intends to utilize an
     operator-specific program in Section VIII.F.3.b., and if so, submit to the Division a
     summary of the measurement strategy including all information identified by the
     Division in the Intensity Verification Protocol. Operators that submitted a
     notification of their intent to use an operator-specific program may revert back to
     using the state-default intensity verification factor(s) or a Division-developed
     measurement strategy for a given year, with Division approval, after a showing of
     good cause.

     VIII.G.2.     Annual verifications

     By June 30 of 2024 through 2031 for the previous calendar year, intensity
     operators must submit annual verifications on a Division-approved form in
     accordance with Section VIII.F.2. to the Division summarizing the intensity
     operator’s greenhouse gas intensity plan implementation during the preceding
     calendar year. For the annual verifications due in 2024 and 2025, the items in
     Sections VIII.G.2.a. through VIII.G.2.j. are required only as they are applicable to
     new facility intensity for calendar years 2023 and 2024. Operators with no
     intensity target for a given calendar year are not required to submit an annual
     verification for that calendar year. The annual verification must include, at a
     minimum:

            VIII.G.2.a.     The intensity operator’s implementation of the types of
                    BMPs, control measures, emission reduction strategies, and
                    technologies in its greenhouse gas intensity plan, on a site-
                    specific basis (by location name and AIRS ID, if applicable, and
                    whether the site is located within a disproportionately impacted
                    community) for each BMP, control method, emission reduction
                    strategy, and technology implemented.

            VIII.G.2.b.     If applicable, an identification of new well production facilities
                    subject to Section VIII.C. commencing operation in that calendar
                    year.


                                                                                          358
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           VIII.G.2.c.    If applicable, the intensity operator’s implementation of
                    BMPs, control measures, emission reduction strategies, and
                    technologies to achieve the new facility intensity target at all sites
                    subject to Section VIII.C. on a site-specific basis (by location
                    name and AIRS ID, if applicable.

           VIII.G.2.d.    Instances of departure from the intensity operator’s
                    greenhouse gas intensity plan, reason(s) for departure, and any
                    modifications of the applicable element(s) of the BMP plan.

           VIII.G.2.e.    Use of any alternative emission reduction approaches not
                    specified in the intensity operator’s greenhouse gas intensity plan.

           VIII.G.2.f.    A demonstration that emission reductions were prioritized in
                    disproportionately impacted communities, including a
                    quantification of co-benefits achieved.

           VIII.G.2.g.    Identification by location name, AIRS ID (if applicable), well
                    API number, and COGCC location ID (if applicable) of any oil or
                    natural gas wells acquired or divested during the previous
                    calendar year; the date of acquisition or divestment; and the name
                    of the operator from which the well(s) were acquired or to whom
                    the well(s) were divested.

           VIII.G.2.h.    A certification by a company representative with oversight
                    over the operator’s greenhouse gas intensity program that the
                    annual verification is accurate and complete, to the best of the
                    representative’s knowledge and, if applicable, that measures
                    identified in an asset transfer update submitted under Section
                    IV.E.3. have been implemented as described therein.

           VIII.G.2.i.    The annual company-wide and new facility greenhouse gas
                    intensity.




                                                                                       359
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

            VIII.G.2.j.   If applicable, whether the operator utilized the state default
                     intensity verification factor in Section VIII.F.3.a. or an operator-
                     specific program in Section VIII.F.3.b.

     VIII.G.3.     Updated Greenhouse Gas Intensity Plan

     By June 30, 2026 through 2031, if an intensity operator does not meet the
     required intensity target for the previous calendar year, the intensity operator
     must update their most recently submitted greenhouse intensity plan to
     demonstrate how the operator intends to meet its required intensity target and
     meet the additional reductions required by Section VIII.B.1. and submit that
     updated greenhouse gas intensity plan to the Division.

     VIII.G.4.     Operator-Specific Program Measurement Strategy

     By June 30 of 2026 through 2031 for the preceding calendar year, where an
     intensity operator utilized an operator-specific GHG intensity verification program
     as allowed in Section VIII.F.3.b., the intensity operator must submit to the
     Division the following:

            VIII.G.4.a.   The measurement strategy including all information identified
                     by the Division in the Intensity Verification Protocol.

            VIII.G.4.b.   An evaluation of the implementation of the measurement
                     strategy, including all information identified by the Division in the
                     Intensity Verification Protocol.

     VIII.G.5.     Operator-Specific Program Third-Party Audit Reports

     Where the intensity operator utilized an operator-specific GHG intensity
     verification program as allowed in Section VIII.F.3.b., the intensity operator must
     submit to the Division a summarized report with a list of any findings of the
     certified third-party auditor that may indicate the ONGAEIR needs to be adjusted,
     along with any revisions the operator is making to address those findings. The
     report must also include the credentials and certification of the third-party auditor.
     The report is due by the following dates:

            VIII.G.5.a.   By December 31, 2026, for calendar year 2025,


                                                                                            360
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           VIII.G.5.b.   By December 31, 2028, for calendar year 2027, and

           VIII.G.5.c.   By December 31, 2031, for calendar year 2030.




                                                                             361
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

PART C        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose
A.      December 21, 1995 (Section II.B.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S. and
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulation Numbers 3, 7 and the Common Provisions establish lists of Negligibly
Reactive Volatile Organic Compounds (NRVOCs). The revisions adopted consolidate
the list of NRVOCs into the Common Provisions, assuring that the same list of NRVOCs
apply to all the Colorado regulations. This provides more consistency in those
chemicals regulated as VOCs.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provides the authority for the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission to adopt and modify regulations pertaining to
organic solvents and photochemical substances. § 25-7-109(2)(f) and 25-7-109(2)(g),
C.R.S., grant the Commission the authority to promulgate regulations pertaining to
Organic solvents and photochemical substances. The Commission's action is taken
pursuant to authority granted and procedures set forth in §§ 25-7-105, 25-7-109, and
25-7-110, C.R.S.

Purpose

These revisions to Regulations Numbers 3, 7, and the Common Provision are intended
to clarify substances that are negligibly reactive VOCs, which are reflected in the EPA
list of non-photochemically reactive VOCs. By consolidating the list (which consists of
the EPA list of non-photochemically VOCs), and adopting the EPA definition by
reference, a single list of negligibly reactive VOCs will apply uniformly to all Colorado Air
Quality Control Commission regulations.

This revision will also include EPA's recent addition of acetone to the negligibly reactive
VOC list. The addition of acetone to the list of negligibly reactive VOC's provides
additional flexibility to sources looking for an alternative to more photochemically


                                                                                         362
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

reactive VOCs. Because the EPA has added acetone to their list of non-photochemically
reactive VOCs many industries, which make and supply products to Colorado
industries, are planning to substitute acetone for more reactive VOCs. This change in
the content of products purchased by industry for use in Colorado would adversely
affect industries in Colorado if acetone remains a regulated VOC in Colorado. By
adopting acetone as a negligibly-reactive VOC, industry’s will be able to take advantage
of and benefit from this possible shift in product contents.

B.     March 21, 1996 (Sections I.A.1. through I.A.4.; II.D.; II.E.)
The changes to Regulation Number 7 were adopted as part of the Commission's
decision to redesignate the Denver metro area as an attainment and maintenance area
for ozone, together with the relevant amendments to the Ambient Air Quality Standards
regulation and Regulation Number 3. The Ozone Maintenance Plan, also adopted by
the Commission on March 21, 1996 as part of the redesignation, based part of its
demonstration of maintenance on the continued existence of rules regulating VOC
emissions. Such rules include the application of the permit requirements of Regulation
Number 3 to gasoline stations, and the continued application of Regulation Number 7
for the control of VOC in nonattainment areas. The VOC controls in Regulation Number
7 were adopted into the SIP in May 1995, after Denver attained the ozone standard.
The maintenance demonstration was based on future inventories that assumed the
continuance of existing VOC controls in the Denver Metro area.

Pursuant to § 25-7-107(2.5), C.R.S., the Commission is required to take expeditious
action to redesignate the area as an attainment area for ozone. The CAA requires the
submittal of a maintenance plan demonstrating maintenance of the ozone standard for
any such redesignation request. The changes to Regulation Number 7 are consistent
with continued maintenance of the ozone standard and are not otherwise more stringent
than the relevant federal requirements.

The purpose of the revisions to Regulation Number 7, Section I.A is to provide a de
minimis source with an opportunity to obtain an exemption from the requirements of
Regulation Number 7 through rule-making. This revision will be submitted to the EPA for
inclusion in the State Implementation Plan (SIP). Upon inclusion of this revision in the



                                                                                       363
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

SIP, exemptions from Regulation Number 7 adopted by the Commission shall apply for
purposes of both federal and state law, pending review by the state legislature pursuant
to § 25-7-133(2), C.R.S. The rule revision includes several limitations on the scope of
such exemptions:

      1.     The aggregate of all emissions from de minimis sources may not exceed
             five tons of emissions per day. The purpose of this limitation is to protect
             the projections contained in the emissions inventory, and to prevent
             growth in such emissions from exceeding the National Ambient Air Quality
             Standard (NAAQS) for ozone.

      2.     An exemption may not be granted if the Division demonstrates that such
             exemption will cause or contribute to air pollution levels that exceed the
             NAAQS, even if the total aggregate emissions from such sources is less
             than five tons per day.



      3.     The Commission rule prohibits more than one rulemaking hearing per year
             to consider potential de minimis exemptions in the aggregate. The
             purpose of this provision is to prevent the granting of case-by-case
             exemptions, and to conserve agency resources. The granting of
             exemptions on a case-by-case basis would grant an unfair advantage for
             those sources that are able to have their case heard by the Commission
             before other, similarly situated sources, submit a request for a de minimis
             exemption. However, upon a showing of an emergency, and at the
             discretion of the Commission, the Commission may always grant an
             exemption on a case-by-case basis.

      4.     The Commission rule provides that the growth in emissions due to such
             de minimis exemptions may not exceed the growth that was included in
             the emissions inventory in the SIP.




                                                                                       364
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       5.     The Commission rule requires the de minimis exemptions to be included
              in a permit that is subject to review and comment by the public and by
              EPA.

The rule revision proposed by the Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC) did not include
these limitations. However, the Commission may not have used the rule as proposed by
RAQC to grant unlimited exemptions from the requirements of Regulation Number 7
because such an action would undermine the regulation and the maintenance
demonstration contained in the SIP. The limitations adopted by the Commission were
the subject of an alternative proposal submitted by the Division. The purpose of the limit
is to ensure that the de minimis exemption provision cannot be used to jeopardize
attainment of the NAAQs. Such a limit is necessary in order to obtain EPA approval of
this SIP revision. The alternative proposal submitted by the Division and adopted by the
Commission will have no regulatory impact on any person, facility, or activity. Even
without an express provision limiting the de minimis exemptions to five tons per day, the
Commission generally would not have granted de minimis exemptions in excess of that
amount because such emissions are not accounted for in the emissions inventory and
would undermine the maintenance demonstration. Furthermore, the alternative
proposed by the Division does not, by itself, create an exemption from any regulatory
requirement. The alternative simply limits the scope of the exemptions that may become
fully effective without a SIP revision. However, the rule does not in any way limit the
Commission's authority to amend the SIP.



The emissions inventory submitted to EPA anticipated growth in emissions in both the
area source and minor source categories, as well as the major source category. In order
to ensure that any growth in emissions due to the granting of de minimis exemptions will
not cause total emissions to exceed the growth projections for these categories, the
Division will keep track of the permitted allowable emissions that may result from
sources and source categories entitled to such exemptions. In addition, the growth in
emissions from area, major and minor source categories will be tracked when the
Division performs the periodic inventories described in the SIP for the years 1999, 2002



                                                                                          365
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

and 2003. Any permitted growth in emissions due to de minimis exemptions will be
added to the emissions for the source categories as reflected in the most recent
periodic inventory. No further de minimis exemptions will be granted if the total growth in
emissions exceeds the growth projections contained in the SIP. In addition, if the total
growth exceeds the growth projections contained in the SIP, one or more of the
contingency measures will be implemented to offset such growth, or the SIP will be
revised as necessary to ensure continued maintenance of the standard.

The purpose of the addition of Regulation Number 7, Section II.E. is to provide sources
with a process to obtain approval of an alternative emission control plan, compliance
method, test method, or test procedure without waiting for EPA to approve of a site-
specific SIP revision. The rule provides that any such alternative must be just as
effective as the relevant regulatory provision, and that such effectiveness must be
demonstrated using equally effective test methods and procedures. The changes to this
section delegate the authority to the Division to approve of such alternatives. Since
rulemaking is not required under Section II.E., the language allowing a source to assert
that the relevant regulatory provision does not represent RACT has been omitted from
this section. Such a change to the substantive requirements of Regulation Number 7
would require a rule change.

The rule revision proposed by the RAQC provided that alternative emissions control
plans and compliance methods must be just as effective as those contained in the rule,
but did not describe the test methods to be used to demonstrate such effectiveness.
The Division proposed an alternative rule requiring such effectiveness to be
demonstrated using test methods and procedures that are just as effective as those set
out in the rule, or that have otherwise been approved by EPA. Such criteria for test
methods and procedures are necessary in order to obtain EPA approval of this SIP
revision. However, even without this language in the rule the Division would have
required approved test methods and procedures in order to approve of proposed
alternatives. The Division's alternative proposal provides the needed certainty in the
most flexible manner possible.




                                                                                         366
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Furthermore, the alternative proposed by the Division does not impose any new
regulatory requirement. Instead, it merely establishes criteria for allowing persons’
subject to the regulation to propose, in their discretion, an alternative means of
complying with the existing regulatory requirements. Therefore, the alternative proposal
submitted by the Division and adopted by the Commission will have no regulatory
impact on any person, facility, or activity.

The rule revisions provide that no permit may be issued based on the provisions
allowing for the creation of de minimis exemptions and the approval of alternative
compliance plans without first revising the SIP unless EPA first approves of such
regulatory revisions as part of the State Implementation Plan. The purpose of this
condition is to address the possible disapproval of these revisions by EPA. In the event
these changes are not approved by EPA, the remaining regulatory provisions of
Regulation Number 7 will remain in full force and effect, and therefore, the EPA may
approve of the maintenance plan and the redesignation request.

The revisions to Regulation Number 7 are procedural changes that are not intended to
reduce air pollution.

For clarification, the Commission adopted these regulation revisions as follows:



REGULATION REVISION                       OZONE SIP AND MAINTENANCE PLAN

Section I.A.1                             Exists in Appendix C of the Ozone Maintenance
                                          Plan to become a part of that document approved
                                          March 21, 1996

Sections I.A.2., 3., 4.; Section II.D.,   Adopted as subsequent regulation revisions to be
II.E.                                     submitted to the Governor and EPA separately
                                          and concurrently as a revision to the Ozone SIP
                                          (and Maintenance Plan)

The specific statutory authority to promulgate the rules necessary for redesignation is
set out in §§ 25-7-105(1)(a)(I) and (2); -106(1)(a); -107 (1) and (2.5); and -301. The


                                                                                         367
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

authority to adopt such rules includes the authority to adopt exceptions to the rules, and
the process for applying for any such exemptions.

C.       November 21, 1996 (Section XII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S. and
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulation Numbers 3, 7 and the Common Provisions establish lists of Negligibly
Reactive Volatile Organic Compounds (NRVOCs). The revisions adopted update the list
of NRVOCs so that the state list remains consistent with the federal list. Additionally,
because perchloroethylene will no longer be listed as a VOC in Regulation Number 7,
Section XII, Control of VOC Emissions from Dry Cleaning Facilities using
Perchloroethylene as a Solvent, is being deleted. Regulation Numbers 8 and 3 list the
federal Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). In the June 8, 1996 Federal Register the EPA
removed Caprolactam (CAS 105-60-2) from the federal list of Hazardous Air Pollutants.
The conforming changes in Regulation Number 3, Appendices B, C and D have been
made to keep the list of federal HAPs in Regulation Number 3 consistent with the
federal list. The list of HAPs in Regulation Number 8 has been removed and a reference
to the list in Regulation Number 3 has been added.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provides the authority for the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission to adopt and modify regulations pertaining to
organic solvents and photochemical substances. § 25-7-109(2)(f) and 25-7-109(2)(g),
C.R.S., grant the Commission the authority to promulgate regulations pertaining to
organic solvents and photochemical substances. §§ 25-7-105(1)(I)(b) and 25-7-
109(2)(h) provide authority to adopt emission control regulations and emission control
regulations relating to HAPs respectively. The Commission's action is taken pursuant to
authority granted and procedures set forth in §§ 25-7-105, 25-7-109, and 25-7-110,
C.R.S.



                                                                                           368
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Purpose

These revisions to Regulation Numbers 3, 7, 8 and the Common Provisions are
intended to update the state lists of NRVOCs, the Ozone SIP, and HAPs for consistency
with the federal lists.

D.      October 15, 1998 (Section II.F.)
The Gates Rubber Co. Site-specific Revision

The Gates Rubber Co. (Gates), by and through its attorney, submitted this Statement of
Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for amendments to Regulation Number
7, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds.

Basis

Regulation Number 3 contains a certification and trading of emission reduction credits
section (Section V), which sets forth the definitions and process for obtaining emission
credits and using those credits. This section was amended to permit the use of emission
reduction credits (ERC) to satisfy reasonably available control technology (RACT)
requirements. The criteria for approval of ERC transactions specifies that they must
involve like pollutants (for volatile organic compounds, the same degree of toxicity and
photochemical reactivity), must be within the same nonattainment area, may not be
used to satisfy Federal technology control requirements and may not be inconsistent
with standards or regulations or to circumvent new source performance standards, best
available control technology, lowest available emission rate technology controls or
NESHAPs.

Regulation Number 7 sets forth CTG and RACT emission limitations, equipment
requirements and work practices intended to control emission of volatile organic
compounds (VOC) from new and existing stationary sources. The control measures
specified in Regulation Number 7 are designed to reduce the ambient concentrations of
ozone in ozone nonattainment areas and to maintain adequate air quality in other areas.

Specific Statutory Authority

The provisions of C.R.S. §§ 25-7-105 and 25-7-109 to 110 provide the specific statutory
authority for the amendments to this regulation adopted by the Commission. The


                                                                                       369
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission has also adopted in compliance with C.R.S. § 24-4-103(4), this Statement
of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose.

Purpose

The purpose of this amendment to Regulation Number 7 is to establish a source
specific rule for Gates to allow the use of emission reduction credits to satisfy the RACT
requirements for VOC emissions pursuant to Regulation Number 7 for surface coatings
operations not specifically listed in Section IX of Regulation Number 7. Regulation
Number 3 provides specific authorization to use emission reduction credit transactions
as an alternative compliance method to satisfy CTG and RACT requirements.

Specifically, the VOC certified emissions reduction credits to be used in this emission
credit transaction in an amount up to 12 tons per year are from Coors Brewing
Company pursuant to their emissions reduction credit Permit. The emission reduction
credits will be used to satisfy the general requirements that all sources apply RACT.
These emission reduction credits will be used by Gates so that Gates can use solvent-
based surface coatings which contain VOCs periodically in lieu of the water-based
coatings normally used on its 10 Cord coating line (S033, S034, and S035). These
credits will allow Gates to meet RACT requirements without applying control technology
to the 10 Cord line, other than the currently installed catalytic incinerator on the
emissions from the drying oven from the fourth dip, which reduces those emissions by
at least 90%. The relevant portion of Regulation Number 3, which applies to the Gates
credit transaction is Section V.F., entitled “Criteria for Approval of all Transactions.” The
first requirement is that the transaction involve like pollutants.

In the present case, the emission credit transaction involves the exchange of VOC
pollutants. Coors credits for methanol will be exchanged for m-pyrol. Exhaust from the
catalytic incinerator, which contains unconverted toluene and xylene, is routed to the
curing ovens of the other zones of the 10 Cord line, including the first zone. The Division
has previously found that, excluding the emissions from the non-compliant coatings
addressed in this rule, the 10 Cord line has met RACT standards. The use of the non-
compliant coatings adds no HAPs to the Gates emissions. Other non-criteria reportable
pollutants are present at well below APEN de minimis quantities under scenario 2,


                                                                                          370
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

which is applicable to the 10 Cord line. Regulation Number 3 further requires that toxic
or VOC pollutants involve the same degree of toxicity and photochemical reactivity or
else a greater reduction may be required. Since these pollutants are both toxics and
VOCs (except that m-pyrol is not a toxic), both have been addressed.

All of these compounds are commonly used in the surface coating industry with
appropriate safeguards during their use. With respect to toxicity of the Gates
compounds, m-pyrol is not listed as a toxic compound on either the federal or state lists.
Methanol, the VOC in the Coors credit, is a Bin C HAP. Because the m-pyrol in the non-
compliant coatings is not a HAP, the Gates VOCs have equal or lower toxicity than
those being purchased from Coors. Therefore, HAP emissions will be reduced in the
airshed.

The photochemical reactivities of VOCs are important because of their impact on the
ozone formation process in an airshed. The Air Pollution Control Division relied upon the
work of Dr. William P.L. Carter, Professor at the University of California, whose article
entitled “Development of Ozone Reactivity Scales for Volatile Organic Compounds”
describes relative photochemical reactivity scales and comparisons. Dr. Carter notes
that there are a number of ways to quantify VOC reactivities, but the most relevant
measure of VOC effects on ozone is the actual change in ozone formation in an
airshed. This results from changing the emissions of the VOC in that airshed which
depends not only on how rapidly the VOC reacts and the nature of its atmospheric
reaction mechanism, but also the nature of the airshed where it is emitted, including the
effects of other pollutants which are present.

Dr. Carter further states that the VOC effect on ozone in the atmosphere can only be
estimated using computer airshed models. The effect of changing the emissions of a
given VOC on ozone formation in a particular episode will, in general, depend on the
magnitude of the emissions change and on whether the VOC is being added to,
subtracted from, or replacing a portion of the base case emissions.

Dr. Carter's derived relative reactivity scale includes reactive organic gases whose
indices for maximum incremental reactivity (MIR) range from 0.004 to 6.5. The MIR




                                                                                        371
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

values were updated in 1997. The VOCs and their respective MIR involved with this
exchange are as follows:

Methanol      0.16

m-Pyrol       0.57

The pending emission credits of VOCs being used in the proposed emissions credit
transaction are for methanol. The VOCs emitted from uncontrolled use of solvent-based
coatings at Gates are from m-pyrol. Regulation Number 3 provides that if the VOCs are
not of the same photochemical reactivity, a greater offset may be required. The
Commission required that, based on a past ERC trade for Pioneer Metal Finishing, that
methanol credits in a 1.1:1 offset ratio be exchanged for toluene and xylenes. Here,
however, the Commission finds that m-pyrol and methanol have similar photochemical
reactivities, so no offset will be required.

The second requirement states that the transaction must not result in an increased
concentration, at the point of maximum impact of hazardous air pollutants. This
provision was derived from the EPA Emissions Trading Policy Statement and referred to
NESHAP requirements involved in bubble transactions. If this provision is interpreted to
apply generally to a facility which is limited by an existing permit to some level of VOC
emissions on a twenty-four-hour basis, any additional VOCs allowed pursuant to an
emission transaction would by its application increase the concentration of VOCs at the
maximum point of impact. Since it appears to have been intended to limit NESHAP
offsets in bubble transactions, and no NESHAPs are applicable in the Gates
transaction, and recognizing the earlier action of the Commission in approving the use
of ERC transactions to satisfy CTG requirements and in approving a previous ERC
transaction for Pioneer Metal Finishing, the Commission determined that this
requirement should not apply to this transaction.

The next requirement states that no transaction may be approved which is inconsistent
with any standard established by the Federal Act, the state Air Quality Control Act or the
regulations promulgated under either, or to circumvent NSPS requirements or BACT or
LAER, although the Commission may approve a transaction using a certified emission
reduction credit in lieu of a specified CTG method or RACT. The emissions involved in


                                                                                       372
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

this transaction at Gates are not subject to NSPS, BACT, or LAER. Regulation Number
7 applies only RACT to the Gates operations involved. Regulation Number 3 clearly
permits the use of emission reduction credits to satisfy RACT.

The emission must involve sources which are located within the same nonattainment
area. In the present case, both Gates, whose operations are located at 900 S.
Broadway, Denver, Colorado, who is proposing to use the credits, and the source of the
credits, Verticel, whose operations were located at 4607 South Windermere Street,
Englewood, Colorado, are located in the Denver nonattainment area, less than five
miles apart.

The next requirement prohibits the use of emission reduction credits to meet applicable
technology-based requirements for new sources, such as NSPS, BACT, or LAER. As
stated, the Gates operations involved in this transaction are not subject to NSPS, BACT,
or LAER or any other technology-based requirement except for RACT requirements for
which an ERC transaction may be used to satisfy such requirements.

The next requirement states that VOC trades will be considered equal in ambient effect
where the trade is a pound for pound trade in the same control strategy demonstration
area. It appears that this requirement, which was taken from the EPA Emissions Trading
Policy Statement, made the assumption that the “pound for pound” trend would have an
equal impact on the ambient environment, with respect to ozone. Since there was no
independent photochemical reactivity equivalency requirement in the 1986 Policy
Statement, this requirement appears to be redundant with the requirement for insuring
the same degree of photochemical reactivity among traded pollutants.

For VOC trades involving surface coating, the requirements state that emissions must
be calculated on a solids-applied basis and must specify the maximum time period over
which the emissions may be averaged, not to exceed 24 hours. The proposed
emissions credit transaction is based on a 24-hour period. With respect to the solids-
applied basis calculation, this transaction will be calculated on the basis of the pounds
of VOCs from uncontrolled solvent-based coatings.

The emissions credit transaction will require a SIP revision. The source specific rule for
Gates will be forwarded to EPA for approval. The state emissions permit for Gates


                                                                                       373
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

pursuant to the emissions credit transaction will be state effective (but not federally
effective) until the SIP revision is approved by EPA.

Gates proposed the following VOC emissions limitation in its state permit taking into
consideration the pounds per year VOC emissions allowed by this emissions credit
transaction:

1.     A daily maximum limitation of 400 lbs. of VOC emissions from uncontrolled
       solvent-based surface coatings, calculated on a monthly basis for compliance
       purposes. Calculations will be performed by the 30th of the following month.

2.     An annual limitation of no more than 24,000 lbs. (12 tons) of VOC emissions from
       uncontrolled solvent-based surface coatings.

Gates proposes to calculate the annual total VOC limitation on a rolling 12-month basis.
Gates further proposes to keep monthly totals of non-compliant surface coatings used
and to calculate daily usage based on monthly usage divided by the number of days’
non-compliant surface coatings were used. Records of usages and calculations will be
kept and produced at the Division's request.

This source-specific rule has a negligible or no effect upon the other provisions of the
ozone SIP.

It is contemplated that a State construction permit will be issued to Gates upon final
approval by the Commission. Should the approval come after the issuance of Gates'
Title V operating permit, the terms of the construction permit will be added to the
operating permit.

E.     January 11, 2001 (Sections III.C., IX.L.2.c.(1), and X.D.2. through XI.A.3.)
Readoption of Changes to Regulation Number 7 that were not printed in the regulation
or the Colorado Code of Regulations.

Background

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. (1988), §§ 24-4-103(4) and
(12.5) for adopted or modified regulations.



                                                                                          374
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Basis

During a review of the version of Regulation Number 7 adopted by the Air Quality
Control Commission and the version of Regulation Number 7 published in the Colorado
Code of Regulations, several significant discrepancies have been identified. This rule
making will clarify the Commission's intent to adopt the following revisions to Regulation
Number 7:

1.      Section III.C regarding General Requirements for Storage of Volatile Organic
        Compounds omits the following revision:

        “Beer production and associated beer container storage and transfer operations
        involving volatile organic compounds with a true vapor pressure of less than 1.5
        PSIA at actual conditions are exempt from the provisions of Section III.B.”

2.      Section IX.L.2.c.(i) contains discrepancies in reference to the permit number of
        Coors Brewing Company Emissions Reduction Credit Permit issued on July 25,
        1994.

3.      Section X.D.2. through Section XI.A.3. was omitted from the CCR as published in
        the current version of Regulation Number 7.

Specific Statutory Authority

§§ 25-7-109, C.R.S. (1997) authorize the Commission to adopt emission control
regulations.

Purpose

Re-adoption of the proposed rule will eliminate the discrepancies between the
Commission's adopted provisions within Regulation Number 7 and those contained
within the Colorado Code of Regulations. Adoption of the amendments will benefit the
regulated community by providing sources with consistent information.

F.      November 20, 2003 (Sections I.A.2. through I.A.4., II.D. and II.E.)
The Commission repealed the provisions establishing a procedure for granting
exemptions for de minimis sources, and the procedure for approving alternative
compliance plans without source-specific SIP revisions. The Commission had adopted



                                                                                       375
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

the repealed provisions in March 1996, but had delayed the effective date pending EPA
approval through the SIP revision process. Earlier this year, EPA informed the
Commission of its intent to disapprove the provisions unless they were withdrawn. Thus,
the provisions that are the subject of this rulemaking action never took effect. The
Commission hereby repeals such provisions in order to avoid disapproval of the earlier
SIP submittal, and to remove extraneous provisions from Regulation Number 7. Such
repeal is required in order to comply with federal requirements, and is not otherwise
more stringent than the requirements of the federal act.

§§ 25-7-105(1)(a)(I) and 25-7-301 authorize the Commission to adopt and revise a
comprehensive SIP, and to regulate emissions from stationary sources, as necessary to
maintain the national ambient air quality standard for ozone in accordance with the
federal act.

G.     March 12, 2004 (Sections I.A, I.B., XII., and XVI.)
The March 2004 revisions were adopted in conjunction with the Early Action Compact
Ozone Action Plan, which is a SIP revision for attainment of the 8-hour ozone standard
by December 31, 2007. The Commission adopted four new control measures in
Regulation Number 7 to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC). The
control measures require the installation of air pollution control technology to control: (1)
VOC emissions from condensate operation at oil and gas (E&P) facilities; (2) emissions
from stationary and portable reciprocating internal combustion engines; (3) certain VOC
emissions from gas-processing plants; and, (4) emissions from dehydrators at oil and
gas operations.

The new requirements in Sections XII., and XVI. apply to a larger geographic area than
the pre-existing requirements of Regulation Number 7, as set out in Section I.A. of the
rule. The reference to the “Denver Metro Attainment Maintenance Area”, which is not a
defined term, in Section I.A was changed to refer to the “Denver 1-hour ozone
attainment/maintenance area”, which is defined in the Ambient Air Quality Standards
Rule. Similarly, the reference to the “Denver Metropolitan Nonattainment Area Ozone
Maintenance State Implementation Plan” was changed to the “Ozone Redesignation




                                                                                         376
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Request and Maintenance Plan for the Denver Metropolitan Area,” which is the correct
name of the document submitted to EPA in May 2001.

Regarding VOC emissions from condensate operations, the Commission has
determined that an overall reduction of 47.5% VOCs is required of each E&P operation
so as to meet the requirements of the SIP. Further the Commission decided not to take
a unit-by-unit approach, but rather, the amendments take a more flexible approach to
regulating such emissions by requiring sources that have filed, or were required to file,
APENs to choose emission controls and locations for applying those controls. This
approach also minimizes the risk that sources may reconfigure tanks to avoid
implementing the regulation.

Section XII.A.6. provides an exemption for owners and operators with less than 30 tpy
of flash emissions subject to APEN reporting requirements. Regulation Number 7
previously included more general exemptions for emissions from condensate
operations, but such pre-existing exemptions should have been repealed as part of this
revision to Regulation Number 7. To the extent any pre-existing exemption for
condensate operations remains, such pre-existing exemption shall not be construed to
supersede the requirements of Section XII.

The rule also requires annual reports describing how E&P sources will achieve the
requisite emission reductions. Such reports are necessary so that the Division can
determine whether or not the emission reductions are being achieved.

Section XII.B. of Regulation Number 7 is required to ensure that existing and new
natural gas processing plants employ air pollution control technology to control
emissions from leaking equipment, and atmospheric condensate storage tanks (and
tank batteries). The Commission is specifically requiring a leak detection and repair
(LDAR) program for all gas plants, according to the provisions of 40 CFR Part 60,
Subpart KKK, regardless of the date of construction of the affected facility. This is
necessary to ensure these large facilities are well controlled and VOC emissions
minimized.

Section XII. C. pertains to control of VOC emissions from natural gas dehydration
operations. The Commission determined that, in order to meet the requirements of the


                                                                                        377
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

SIP, emissions must be reduced from all dehydration operations located in the 8-hour
Ozone Control Area if such operations produce emissions above the minimum threshold
specified in the rule. Further the Commission decided that flexibility should be allowed in
how emissions are reduced, so several options are listed from which a source owner or
operator may choose. If other equally effective measures or control devices are
available, the Division may, on a case-by-case basis, approve the use of such
alternatives.

Similarly, Section XVI. establishes controls for reciprocating internal combustion
engines. Both “lean” and “rich” burn engines are addressed and though the Commission
has specified the default control technology to be applied to each engine type, the
Division is allowed to approve alternative technology if a demonstration can be made
that the alternative is at least as effective as the listed device in reducing VOC
emissions. Parties to the rulemaking hearing provided evidence that suitable, cost-
effective control equipment may not be available for some existing engines. The rule
adopted by the Commission includes an exemption for lean burn engines if the owner
demonstrates that such emissions controls would cost $5,000 or more per ton of VOC
removed. In calculating such costs, the Division shall use an appropriate amortization
period and current discount rate. The Commission directs the Division to further
investigate the question of whether controls are available and suitable for lean burn
engines, and to recommend any revisions necessary for the regulation applicable to
such engines. New engines locating in the control area must comply with the
requirements effective June 1, 2004, but existing engines have until May 1, 2005 to
come into compliance. Since the rule provides an exemption for existing engines that
cannot be controlled for less than $5,000 per ton, the rule must make the distinction
between new and existing engines so that engines will not be moved into the area
during prior to May 2005 and subsequently apply for such an exemption.

The Commission recognizes that, at this point in time, the controls required by the rule
amendments constitute Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT), at a
minimum, and in some cases, the controls mandated by this regulation may, in fact,
constitute Best Available Control Technology (BACT). This means that this regulation
shall not be used: (a) to preclude a source from asserting that one of the controls


                                                                                        378
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

mandated herein constitutes BACT or Lowest Achievable Emissions Rate (LAER) for a
new source or major modification, (b) require the Division or Commission to mandate
different control technologies as BACT, or (c) preclude the Division or Commission from
requiring additional or more stringent air pollution control technologies as necessary or
appropriate to comply with applicable BACT or LAER requirements for new sources and
major modifications.

By its terms, the New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) applicable to leaking
equipment at onshore natural gas processing plants (40 CFR Part 60, Subpart KKK)
applies to “affected facilities” and “process units” at such facilities as those terms are
defined in the standard. In general, plants that were constructed prior to January 20,
1984 are exempt from the standard, unless subsequently modified or reconstructed, or
newly constructed after that date. Since process units at a single gas plant can be
distinct, certain gas plants may contain equipment that is not presently subject to the
NSPS because of its date of construction. The control requirement in Section XII.B.
would extend leak detection and repair program requirements to such equipment.

The statutory authority for the revisions to regulation Number 7 is set out in §§ 25-7-
105(1)(a) and (1)(b); 25-7-106(1)(c), (5) and (6); and 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2), C.R.S.

The March 2004 revisions to Regulation Number 7 are based on reasonably available,
validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies. All validated, reviewed and
sound scientific methodologies and information made available by interested parties has
been considered. Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in
a demonstrable reduction in air pollution. The Commission chose the most cost-effective
mix of control strategies available to comply with the 8-hour ozone NAAQS. Where
possible, the regulations provide the regulated community with flexibility to achieve the
necessary reductions. The Commission chose the regulatory alternative that will
maximize the air quality benefits in the most cost-effective manner.

H.     December 16, 2004 (Sections I.A., II.A., XII. and XVI.)
The December 2004 revisions were adopted to respond to U.S. EPA comments on the
Ozone Action Plan the Commission adopted in March 2004. EPA required the rule
revision in order to make the control measures incorporated into the State


                                                                                             379
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Implementation Plan practically enforceable as required by the federal Clean Air Act.
The Federal Act requires all of the regulatory provisions adopted in this rulemaking
action, and none of the provisions are more stringent than the requirements of the
federal act.

The revised rule includes a process for obtaining emission reduction credit for pollution
prevention measures. In order to qualify for an emission reduction credit, a pollution
prevention measures must, among other things, be included in a permit even if it does
not involve the construction of an air pollution source and would not otherwise trigger a
requirement for a permit. The revisions to the regulation do not, however, create a
requirement for sources to obtain a permit for pollution prevention measures for which
the source will not take emissions reduction credit.

The Commission has the statutory authority to adopt the revisions pursuant to §§ 25-7-
105(1)(a) and (1)(b); 25-7-106(1)(c), (5) and (6); and 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2), C.R.S.

The control measures necessary to achieve the 8-hour ozone standard were adopted in
March 2004. The December 2004 rule changes do not impose new emission control
requirements or emission reduction requirements on industry. Instead, the December
2004 rule revisions are intended to make the previously adopted requirements more
enforceable, and to make sure that the requisite emission reductions occur during the
ozone season when they are needed. Thus, the December 2004 are administrative in
nature in that they are intended to assist with the administration and enforcement of the
previously adopted controls. The Commission recognizes that the December 2004 rule
amendments impose additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and
therefore costs, on the regulated community. The changes, however, are not intended to
achieve further reduction in emissions of volatile organic compounds beyond the
reduction requirements adopted in March 2004. They are instead intended to make the
March 2004 revisions fully enforceable and acceptable to EPA. Since the December
2004 rule changes are administrative in nature, the requirements of Section 25-7-110.8
C.R.S. do not apply.




                                                                                         380
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

I.      December 17, 2006 (Section XII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), C.R.S. for
new and revised regulations.

Basis

Regulation Number 7, Section XII imposes emission control requirements on oil and gas
condensate tanks located in Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas and Jefferson
Counties, the Cities and Counties of Broomfield and Denver and parts of Larimer and
Weld Counties (“8-Hour Ozone Control Area”). The condensate tank requirements,
along with other requirements applicable to oil and gas operations and natural gas fired
reciprocating internal combustion engines, were initially promulgated in March 2004,
and later revised in December 2004, in connection with an Early Action Compact Ozone
Action Plan (“EAC”) entered into between the State of Colorado and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. The purpose of the EAC is to prevent exceedances of
the 8-Hour Ozone Standard and avoid a nonattainment designation for the area.
Pursuant to the EAC, Colorado committed to limiting Volatile Organic Compound
(“VOC”) emissions from condensate tanks located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area to
91.3 tons per day (“TPD”) as of May 1, 2007 and 100.9 TPD as of May 1, 2012.
Because of unanticipated growth of condensate tank emissions since 2004, the control
requirements for condensate tanks adopted during the 2004 rulemaking are insufficient
to meet these daily emission numbers. The current revisions require a greater level of
control of condensate tank emissions in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area in order to meet
the commitments set forth in the EAC and to prevent future exceedances of the 8-Hour
Ozone Standard.

These revisions are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound
scientific methodologies. All validated, reviewed and sound scientific methodologies
made available by interested parties have been considered. Evidence in the record
supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution,
and will reduce the risk to human health or the environment or otherwise provide




                                                                                         381
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

benefits justifying the costs. Among the options considered, the regulatory option
chosen will maximize the air quality benefits in the most cost-effective manner.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in Section, 25-7-105(1)(a),
C.R.S., which gives the Air Quality Control Commission authority to promulgate rules
and regulations necessary for the proper implementation of a comprehensive state
implementation plan that will assure attainment of national ambient air quality
standards. Additional authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections, 25-7-106 and
25-7-109, which allow the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations and
recordkeeping requirements applicable to air pollution sources. Specifically, § 25-7-
106(1)(c) authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations that are
applicable to specified areas within the state. § 25-7-109(1)(a) authorizes the
Commission to adopt emission control regulations. § 25-7-109(3)(b) authorizes the
Commission to adopt emission control regulations for the storage and transfer of
petroleum products and any other volatile organic compounds.

Purpose

The Revisions to Section XII. were adopted in order to meet the commitments with
respect to condensate tank emissions set forth in the Early Action Compact Ozone
Action Plan entered into between the State of Colorado and U.S. EPA, prevent
exceedances of the 8-Hour Ozone Standard, and simplify recordkeeping and reporting
requirements. To accomplish these goals, the revised regulation raises the system-wide
control requirements for the ozone season from the current 47.5% to 75% commencing
in 2007 and 78% in 2012. While the rule establishes a higher percentage reduction in
2012 the Commission recognizes that given the uncertainty of emissions growth over
the next 6 years, this reduction requirement may be too high and may need to be
revisited as the 2012 deadline approaches.

For the non-ozone season the required reduction has been raised from 38% to 60%
commencing October 2007, and 70% commencing January 1, 2008. Determination of
compliance during the ozone season under the revisions will be on a weekly basis
instead of a daily basis, in recognition of the fact that condensate production is not


                                                                                         382
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

typically measured on a daily basis. Under the previous version of the Rule, production
could be tracked on something greater than a daily basis and the total divided by the
number of days to obtain a daily number. As such, the prior rule did not truly give a daily
average and thus the move to a weekly average is of little substance. Apart from this
change, calculation of emissions for compliance purposes will remain the same as
under the previous version of the rule. In addition to raising the system-wide reduction
requirements, the current rule adds significant new monitoring, record-keeping and
reporting requirements, and a “backstop” threshold requirement to have emission
controls on all condensate storage tanks with uncontrolled actual emissions of 20 tpy or
more of VOC flash emission, as a state-only requirement within the EAC area pursuant
to Section XVII.C.1. of Regulation Number 7. Owners and operators will continue to
keep a spreadsheet that tracks emission reductions and submit an Annual Report as
required under the previous version of the rule. Owners and operators are now also
required to submit a semi-annual report on November 30 of each year detailing their
emissions during the preceding ozone season. Additional record keeping has been
added so as to require that a weekly checklist be maintained detailing inspections of
control devices. This checklist will assist operators in the inspection and maintenance
practice and provide a record that proper inspections have been done. If the inspections
show a problem with the control device, the owner or operator will be required to notify
the Division of problems on a monthly basis. This requirement will allow the Division to
track problems on a timelier basis and ensure compliance with the rule. Finally, a
provision has been added to require owners or operators to submit a list of all their
controlled tanks on April 30 of each year and notify the Division monthly during ozone
season if the control status of any tank changes.

J.      December 17, 2006 (Sections I.A.1.b. and XVII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), C.R.S. for
new and revised regulations.

Basis




                                                                                        383
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Air Quality Control Commission has adopted these state-only provisions as a
means of reducing air emissions from oil and gas operations throughout Colorado. Due
to the large growth in oil and gas production in a number of regions of the state
emissions from oil and gas operations have rapidly increased over the past few years
and are expected to increase further in the foreseeable future. These revisions are a
proactive measure designed to eliminate air emissions that could threaten attainment of
ambient air quality standards and adversely affect visibility in Class I Areas. These
revisions are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound scientific
methodologies. All validated, reviewed and sound scientific methodologies made
available by interested parties have been considered. Evidence in the record supports
the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution, and will
reduce the risk to human health or the environment or otherwise provide benefits
justifying the costs. Among the options considered, the regulatory option chosen will
maximize the air quality benefits in the most cost-effective manner.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in §§ 25-7-106 and 25-7-
109 of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), which allow the
Commission to promulgate emission control regulations and recordkeeping
requirements applicable to air pollution sources. Additional authority is set forth in § 25-
7-105.1, which allows the Commission to adopt state-only standards. Specifically, § 25-
7-106(1)(c) authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations that are
applicable to the entire state. § 25-7-109(1)(a) authorizes the Commission to adopt
emission control regulations. § 25-7-109(3)(b) authorizes the Commission to adopt
emission control regulations for the storage and transfer of petroleum products and any
other volatile organic compounds.

Purpose

The Revisions to Section XVII. were adopted in order to reduce air emissions from oil
and gas operations and natural gas fired reciprocating internal combustion engines in
Colorado. These revisions constitute a forward-looking approach to deal with a rapidly
growing source of air emissions, and are designed to reduce the possibility of future


                                                                                          384
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

problems with respect to the attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards and
state and federal Class I Area visibility goals. Since the requirements are not mandated
under federal law and are not currently necessary to meet National Ambient Air Quality
Standards they are being adopted as a state-only requirement in accordance with the
Act and as provided for under the Federal Clean Air Act.

These revisions establish emission control requirements for condensate storage tanks,
glycol dehydrators and natural gas fired reciprocating internal combustion engines in
Colorado. These provisions require that condensate tank and dehydrator controls meet
a 95% percent control efficiency. As in the EAC Area, this requirement does not
contemplate stack testing in order to verify the control efficiency. The insertion of the
word average allows operators some downtime without a violation occurring so long as
the downtime does not result in an average control efficiency of less than 95%
considering the actual engineered control efficiency. For the purposes of XVII.C.4.b.
observed operation of flare auto-igniters can include telemetric monitoring systems,
physical on-site function tests or auditory confirmation of the auto-igniter function.

The requirements applicable to glycol dehydrators mirror the requirements applicable in
the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area set forth in Section XII, and should be interpreted
consistently with those provisions notwithstanding the addition of clarifying language.
For example, language has been added clarifying that grouping of dehydrators is limited
to dehydrators at a single site. Similarly, the word “production” has been added to the
definition of condensate tank to clarify that the requirements, as within the EAC, do not
apply to produced water tanks.

Determination of whether a condensate tank’s emissions are at or above the threshold
is based on the emissions from the tank during the preceding twelve-month period. If a
tank has been in service for less than twelve months, applicability shall be based on
uncontrolled actual emissions over the service period of the tank multiplied out to twelve
months. Accordingly, if a tank has been in service for three months, applicability of the
control requirements will be based on the uncontrolled actual emissions from the tank
for those three months multiplied by four. If emissions from a controlled tank decrease,
operators may remove the controls when emissions from the previous twelve-month



                                                                                            385
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

period falls below the applicable threshold. Operators will remain responsible, however,
for controlling a tank if a subsequent emission increase results in emissions being over
the applicable threshold during the preceding twelve months.

For tanks serving newly drilled, recompleted or restimulated wells (including refrac’d
wells) the owner or operator will have 90 days to determine anticipated production and,
if necessary install a control device. In determining anticipated production, the owner or
operator may use an appropriate decline factor to determine expected emissions over
the first 12 months after the new drilling, recompletion or re-stimulation. If the owner or
operator determines that emissions will be below the 20 tpy threshold following the new
drilling, recompletion or restimulation, the owner or operator shall notify the Division of
this determination.

Certain differences with the requirements applicable to the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
have been included in order to provide greater flexibility to operators in other areas of
the state and in light of the fact that the regulation represents a proactive attempt to
avoid future impacts from oil and gas emissions. Specifically, the standards for obtaining
approval of an alternative pollution control device have been relaxed to promote
innovative control strategies. Additionally, a provision has been added to allow an
extension of the control requirement deadlines at the Division’s discretion for good
cause shown. This provision allows the Division to extend a deadline where shortages
of control equipment, and crews may prevent an operator from meeting the deadlines,
particularly in areas where access is limited by the weather or other issues.

With respect to Section VII.B.1.c. of the General Provisions, the Commission has
determined that as a general rule during normal operations no emissions should be
visible from the air pollution control equipment. Normal operations include reasonably
foreseeable fluctuations in emissions from the condensate tank, including the
fluctuations that occur during a separator dump. However, a transient (lasting less than
10 seconds) “puff” of smoke when the main burner ignites or shuts down would not be
considered a violation of the “no visible emission” standard. Finally, a provision has
been included that exempts units’ subject to the rule if such units are also subject to a
control standard under the MACT, BACT or NSPS Programs. This exception is of most



                                                                                           386
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

importance for new and newly relocated engines that may become subject to a currently
pending NSPS Standard under Subpart JJJJ.

The engine provisions only apply to engines that are constructed or relocated into
Colorado after the applicability date and do not impose requirements on units that are
currently located in the state.

The Commission recognizes that the adopted emission control requirements represent
a first step in addressing rapidly growing emissions from oil and gas operations
throughout the state. Accordingly, the Commission directs the Division to provide an
annual update on emission growth trends, environmental impacts, modeling and
monitoring efforts, the adequacy of emission controls to protect the NAAQS and the
health impacts of emissions from the oil and gas sector.

K.      December 12, 2008 (Title, Sections I., II., VI. – XIII., XVII., XVIII., and
Appendices A-F)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), C.R.S. for
new and revised regulations.

Basis

The Air Quality Control Commission has adopted revisions throughout Regulation
Number 7 to address ozone formation in the 8-Hour Ozone Nonattainment Area (NAA),
including the 9-county Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range (DMA/NFR)
NAA. Specifically, the Commission has adopted revisions to reduce an ozone precursor,
volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions, and thus reduce ozone formation. These
revisions are necessary to ensure attainment with the current 8-Hour Ozone National
Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) set at 0.08 parts per million (ppm), and to
achieve additional ozone reductions in light of both the new ozone NAAQS set at 0.075
ppm and the Governor’s July 27, 2007 directive to proactively and pragmatically reduce
ozone levels.

As of November 20, 2007, the EPA’s deferral of a nonattainment designation for the
area in question expired, signifying that the area is now considered nonattainment, or in



                                                                                       387
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

violation of the 1997 8-hour Ozone NAAQS of 0.08 ppm for ground level ozone. The
DMA/NFR includes all of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, and
Jefferson Counties as well as portions of Larimer and Weld Counties. This area is now
known as the DMA/NFR NAA.

Pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act, Colorado must prepare and submit a revision to
the State Implementation Plan (SIP) to the EPA no later than June 30, 2009 that
demonstrates attainment of the 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS no later than 2010. The
Commission has adopted an Attainment Plan that satisfies this requirement. The
Attainment Plan demonstrates attainment with no additional control measures.

Photochemical grid dispersion modeling indicates that without further emission controls,
Colorado will attain the 8-hour standard by 2010. The dispersion modeling reflects that
Colorado would attain the standard by a narrow margin. Photochemical dispersion
modeling analysis is the primary tool used to assess present and future air quality
trends, and is required for EPA to approve the state attainment demonstration in the SIP.

In addition, pursuant to EPA guidance, if modeling results indicate that the highest
ozone levels will fall between 0.082 and 0.087 ppm, Colorado must conduct a “weight of
evidence” analysis and other supplemental analyses in order to corroborate the
modeling results. Colorado’s model results are within this range, and thus the state has
conducted this analysis. The analysis supports the conclusion that Colorado will attain
the standard by 2010.

The Commission is also adopting State-only revisions to Regulation Number 7 to further
address ozone formation in the DMA/NFR NAA. Specifically, the Commission has
adopted revisions to reduce an ozone precursor, volatile organic compound (VOC)
emissions, and thus reduce ozone formation. These revisions help Colorado make
progress toward eventual compliance with the new ozone NAAQS set at 0.075 ppm as
well as the Governor’s directive to proactively and pragmatically reduce ozone levels.

Statutory Authority

The statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), C.R.S. § 25-7-101, et seq., specifically, C.R.S. §25-



                                                                                         388
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

7-105(12) (authorizing rules necessary to implement the provisions of the emission
notice and construction permit programs and the minimum elements of the operating
permit program), 109(1)(a), (2) and (3) (authorizing rules requiring effective practical air
pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources, including rules
pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, photochemical substances, as well as
rules pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum products and any other VOCs),
and § 25-7-301 (authorizing the development of a program for the attainment and
maintenance of the NAAQS).

Purpose

These revisions to Regulation Number 7 are part of an overall ozone reduction strategy.
The Commission intends that this overall ozone reduction strategy accomplishes six
objectives: A) reduce VOC and nitrogen oxides’ (NOx) emissions from oil and gas
operations in the Ozone NAA and across the state, B) revise the control requirements
for condensate tanks by a refined system-wide control strategy in the Ozone NAA, C)
expand VOC RACT requirements for listed source categories for 100 tpy sources such
that all Ozone NAAs are subject to Regulation Number 7’s RACT requirements, D)
clarify how the RACT requirements in Regulation Numbers 3 and 7 interact in the
Ozone NAA, E) improve the Division’s inventory of condensate emissions and other
relevant sources in the NAA; and F) make typographical, grammatical and formatting
changes for greater clarity and readability.

In support of objectives A-D and F, the Commission adopts these revisions to
Regulation Number 7 to revise condensate tank regulations, set pneumatic controller
regulations, expand RACT applicability and make associated corrections (Regulation
Number 7, Sections I., II., VI. – XIII., XVII., XVIII., and Appendices A-F).

In the course of this proceeding, the Division and certain parties supported a
compromise proposal regarding the control of condensate tanks. The Commission finds
this proposal to be appropriate with certain changes noted herein. The Commission is
requiring an increase from 75% to 81% control on a system-wide basis in 2009; to 85%
control on a system-wide basis in 2010; and to 90% control on a system-wide basis in




                                                                                         389
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

2011 in the 8-Hour Ozone NAA. The Commission is adopting new VOC controls for
pneumatic controllers in the 8-Hour Ozone NAA in Regulation Number 7, Section XVIII.

These system-wide control percentages achieve significant ozone precursor reductions
in 2009, 2010 and 2011, with emphasis on significant VOC emissions reductions in
2010, during the monitoring period for the attainment demonstration. These revisions
will help to ensure that the non-attainment area realizes the necessary reductions
during the 2010 attainment year. Further, these revisions are an important step in
putting the State on a path towards attaining the 2008 8-Hour ozone standard.

A number of parties including the Regional Air Quality Council and the North Front
Range Metropolitan Planning Organization supported this proposal to secure VOC
reductions from this source at these levels and according to this schedule. The system-
wide approach has been approved by the Commission in the past, as well as by EPA in
revisions to the State Implementation Plan. The Commission decided to defer decision
making on the implementation of a 95% system-wide level of control, given concerns
regarding the notable incremental cost associated with control to the equivalent of 2 tpy
tanks as well as concerns regarding the flexibility intended to be afforded by a system-
wide approach. Tank operators also expressed concern about the loss of incentive to
over-control their systems to meet the standard, and the difficulty for small operators to
control at the 95% system-wide level at this time.

The proposed control percentages continue to afford flexibility in operations to
condensate tank operators, while ensuring attainment of the standard by 2010.
Therefore, the Commission is deferring further control for future modeling, air quality
analysis, and/or administrative review, whether to control this source in the future at the
95% system-wide control level or through some other approach for purposes of the
2008 8-Hour standard.

The provisions of the compromise proposal, including the commensurate emissions
reductions, support the State Implementation Plan’s ability to assure attainment and
maintenance of the 1997 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS. Inclusion of these provisions
enhances the Weight of Evidence demonstration supporting attainment by 2010
pursuant to this State Implementation Plan. The Commission recognizes parties subject


                                                                                          390
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

to the compromise Regulation Number 7 provisions for condensate tank system-wide
emissions reductions concur that these provisions are appropriate for inclusion in the
State Implementation Plan.

Further the Commission intends to expand the applicability of RACT requirements to
existing, new and modified sources in Ozone NAAs outside of the historic one-hour
Ozone NAA or attainment/maintenance area (Regulation Number 7, Sections I and II).
The Commission further intends to clarify how the control technology requirements of
Regulation Number 7 interact with Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.D.2.

Finally, the Commission intends to make grammatical, typographical, formatting
revisions, and other editing revisions throughout Regulation Number 7.

Condensate Tank Emissions Control

Condensate storage tank control requirements in Regulation Number 7, Section XII. are
revised by reorganizing the rule, adding/revising definitions, adding monitoring
requirements, revising recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and setting additional
control requirements for tanks. The current requirements are reorganized by specifying
applicability, definitions, general provisions, emissions controls, monitoring, and
recordkeeping and reporting sections. The terms new, existing, modified/modification,
auto-igniter, and surveillance system were defined.

Tanks serving newly drilled, recompleted or stimulated wells are required to employ air
pollution control equipment during the first 90 days of production. After the first 90
calendar days, the control device may be removed. This requirement is designed to
address the fact that production, and thus emissions, is at their greatest during the
period immediately after drilling, recompletion or stimulation, and the fact that the actual
production/emission level is not known prior to drilling, recompletion or stimulation. By
requiring controls on all tanks serving newly drilled, recompleted or stimulated wells, the
proposed rule significantly reduces emissions during the initial period, while allowing
owners and operators to remove control devices afterward, as part of the overall
system-wide control regime. All tanks over 2 tpy must participate in the overall system-
wide program.




                                                                                          391
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Furthermore, since Regulation Number 7’s system-wide program is essentially RACT
for condensate tanks in the NAA, new and modified 2 tpy or greater condensate tanks
(affected by Regulation Number 3 RACT) may also move their control devices after the
first 90 days when participating in the overall system-wide control regime, as long as the
overall system-wide requirements are being met. Such flexibility is provided as to avoid
two regulatory programs: one for tanks that might never be allowed to move their control
devices under Regulation Number 3 RACT and one for tanks that would be allowed the
flexibility under a system-wide program. Finally, it is the intent of this rule that sources
may use their 2 tpy or greater “modified” tanks emissions (i.e., during those tanks’ first
90 days of production) in the source’s overall system wide calculation. After 90 days,
sources must include – whether controlled or otherwise - the 2 tpy or greater “modified”
tanks in the overall system-wide calculation. In the case of modified tanks that fall below
2 tpy, it is not the intent of the commission for sources to include these less than 2 tpy
tanks in any system-wide calculation. However, sources may use the less than 2 tpy
controlled tanks, if necessary to demonstrate system-wide compliance.

The Commission is requiring the installation and operation of auto-igniters for each
combustion device. In many cases, condensate tanks are remotely located and
unmanned. Auto-igniters will provide greater assurance that the control devices are
functioning, under these circumstances. Auto-igniters may be relied on to identify when
the pilot is not lit and attempt to relight it, and ensure control operation. The Commission
is also requiring surveillance on batteries with uncontrolled emissions greater than 100
tpy. Operators must use surveillance to document the duration of time when the pilot is
not lit, and to discover if repairs are necessary to ensure proper control operation. The
Commission is targeting this size of battery in order to strike a balance between the
need to more carefully monitor performance among the largest batteries, the cost
associated with surveillance and the division’s capacity to manage the information. The
Commission acknowledges that three well operators, Encana, Anadarko and Noble
Energy, have agreed to participate with the Division in a pilot program regarding the
implementation of electronic surveillance systems.

With regard to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, operators will still record
estimated emissions each week (as part of the current Regulation Number 7


                                                                                           392
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements) and will report this information to the Division semi-annually. In addition,
the Division has revised these requirements so that sources now must keep monthly
records throughout the year and provide any of those records within 5 business days of
a division request. Further, operators may only use a Division-approved spreadsheet to
submit emissions records.

Further, a responsible official must now certify the accuracy of the data in the semi-
annual reports. This level of recordkeeping and reporting will allow the Division greater
capacity to verify compliance and additional availability to work with sources (especially
smaller operators). The Commission intends that record-keeping and reporting
requirements for surveillance apply only to tanks with uncontrolled emissions greater
than 100 tpy.

Controls on 2 Tons Per Year Tanks and Lower

The Commission intends that substantial emissions reductions be achieved from
condensate storage tanks and that industry retain the flexibility to decide which tanks to
control in order to achieve those reductions. The rule has been revised to subject any
condensate storage tank to this rule in the Applicability Section, but stipulates in the
Emission Control Section that in order to determine the appropriate system-wide
emissions reductions, only two tons per year tanks be considered.

In doing this, the Commission intends that tanks that emit actual uncontrolled volatile
organic compound emissions of two tons per year or more be considered in determining
compliance with the system-wide emissions reductions for the specific ozone non-
attainment or attainment maintenance area, and that industry have the flexibility to
control smaller tanks in those specific ozone non-attainment or attainment maintenance
areas if needed in order to meet the applicable system-wide emissions reductions.

For example, if a company owns 20 tanks that emit actual uncontrolled volatile organic
compound emissions of two tons per year in a specific ozone non-attainment area, and
15 tanks that emit less than two tons per year, the company would determine its
required emission reductions of the production through the 20 two tpy tanks, but be able
to control any of the 15 additional less than 2 tpy tanks in order to comply with the
system-wide emissions reduction or maintain the desired over control as buffer.


                                                                                           393
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

However, all tanks controlled in order to comply with the system-wide emissions
reduction standard must have filed an APEN and obtained a valid permit in order to be
considered as part of the compliance demonstration.

Calendar Weekly and Calendar Monthly Records and Reports

The Commission intends that records and associated reports demonstrating compliance
with the weekly emission reduction requirement shall start with the calendar week
containing May 1st and end with the calendar week containing September 30th, or other
specified dates in the rule. A calendar week begins midnight Sunday morning and ends
the following Saturday evening at midnight. Thus, where May 1st falls on any day other
than Sunday, the calendar week of May 1st begins on midnight of the preceding Sunday
morning. Similarly, the weekly emission reduction requirement applies to the full
calendar week that includes September 30th.

So, if September 30th falls somewhere in the middle of a calendar week, the emissions
reduction requirement applies to that calendar week in full, beginning midnight Sunday
morning and ending the following Saturday evening at midnight.

Consequently, calendar monthly records and associated reports demonstrating
compliance with the monthly emission reduction requirement shall apply to midnight the
morning of day 1 through midnight the evening of the last day of each specific calendar
month.

The Commission intentionally broadened the definition of surveillance to provide that: 1)
electronic surveillance is not specifically required, and other means to gather
information from remote locations is allowed; and 2) data only had to be gathered on a
daily basis. The Commission intends that currently required surveillance need only
monitor combustion device flame presence or temperature once every day, in order to
balance the need to gather adequate data on combustion device operation with the
amount of data to be gathered, handled and processed. The Commission believes this
is a fair approach considering that only the largest atmospheric condensate storage
tanks (those with actual uncontrolled volatile organic compound emissions equal to or
greater than 100 tons per year) are subject to this surveillance requirement.




                                                                                      394
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Finally, the Commission intends that the monitoring be completed to ensure compliance,
and has determined that failing to monitor as required, losing monitoring data, and
failing to maintain monitoring data should be treated similarly to recordkeeping
requirements. Thus, these actions “may be treated by the Division as if the data were
not collected.”

The Commission intends that system-wide emissions control requirements apply to
each specific ozone non-attainment or attainment maintenance area and not collectively
to all ozone non-attainment or attainment maintenance areas state-wide. This means
that the system-wide emissions control requirements apply specifically to the Ozone
Control Area (a.k.a. the Denver Metropolitan Area/North Front Range Ozone Control
Area), separately from any future designated ozone non-attainment area. Each new
ozone non-attainment area designated in the future shall be subject to the system-wide
control requirements by themselves. This is needed to ensure that necessary controls
are achieved and maintained in each ozone non-attainment or attainment maintenance
area, and that these controls are not removed and offset by system-wide controls in
some other ozone non-attainment area.

Pneumatics Emissions Control

This revision establishes new VOC controls for pneumatic controllers in the 8-hour
Ozone NAA in Regulation Number 7, Section XVIII. Pneumatic controllers are widely
used in the oil and gas industry to control or monitor process parameters such as liquid
level, gas level, pressure, valve position, liquid flow, gas flow and temperature.
Pneumatic controllers of interest are instruments that are actuated using natural gas
pressure (of which some natural gas may be bled to the atmosphere from the
pneumatic controller and some may be vented from the associated valve). Natural gas-
actuated pressure relief devices are not intended to be covered by this rule. There are
high-bleed controllers designed to emit more than six standard cubic feet of gas per
hour (scfh) to the atmosphere, and low-bleed controllers that emit six scfh or less.
Historically, high-bleed controllers have been used.

A 2003 EPA study reported that emissions from pneumatic controllers are collectively
one of the largest sources of methane emissions in the natural gas industry. Estimated


                                                                                        395
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

annual nationwide methane emissions are approximately 31 billion cubic feet (Bcf) from
the production sector, 16 Bcf from the processing sector, and 14 Bcf from the
transmission sector. As stated, by definition, high-bleed pneumatic controllers emit more
than six scfh of natural gas to the atmosphere. The highest bleed rate listed in one
source, a table published by the EPA, is 42 cubic feet per hour (cfh). The average bleed
rate for high-bleed pneumatic controllers in the NAA is 21 cfh. Natural gas is primarily
composed of methane, but also contains other compounds including VOCs and
hazardous air pollutants (HAPs).

VOC emissions from pneumatic controllers within the NAA were 24.8 tons per day (tpd)
for the 2006 baseline and have been projected to be 31.1 tpd for the 2010 baseline.
These emissions represent 14.0 and 15.1 percent of the total VOC emissions from oil
and gas sources in the NAA in 2006 and 2010, respectively. Therefore, emission
reductions related to this source category have the potential to be significant.

These rules require that most high-bleed controllers must be replaced with the
equivalent of low-bleed or better pneumatic controllers by May 1, 2009. There is an
exception that allows high-bleed controllers that the Division agrees are necessary for
safety purposes. Operators must inspect and maintain in-use high-bleed controllers on
a monthly basis. Operators must also keep logs of the number of in-use high-bleed
controllers, as well as the reasoning that high-bleed controller remains in place, and the
inspection and maintenance of the in-use high-bleed controllers. These revisions further
require operators to physically tag the in-use high-bleed controllers to enable the
Division to track compliance.

The oil and gas industry has already begun replacing high-bleed controllers with low-
bleed controllers, understanding the financial gain of minimizing the bleed rate of
pneumatic controllers.

RICE Controls

Reciprocating internal combustion engine (RICE) requirements of Regulation Number 7,
Section XVI. applies in what was the early action compact area (now the Ozone NAA).
These revisions extend the RICE requirements’ applicability to a state-wide basis.




                                                                                       396
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Expand and Clarify RACT Requirements

Regulation Number 7 is revised to expand its application to all subject sources in any
Ozone NAA and Attainment/Maintenance Areas. This previously applied to the one-hour
attainment/maintenance area nonattainment area. Accordingly, this regulation will apply
to some sources that were previously outside of its geographic scope. It is intended that
existing sources become subject to previously adopted Control Technique Guidelines
(CTGS) or general RACT requirements, and are given time to comply to implement the
general RACT requirements.

Specifically, existing sources that have not been modified are allowed three years from
the date of ozone non-attainment designation to implement general RACT
requirements. All new or modified sources become subject to these general RACT
requirements upon commencing operation after the new ozone non-attainment
designation date. This revision is considered a measured approach to ensuring the
consistent use of best practices across the NAA as well as reductions in ozone
precursors considered necessary to attaining the 8-hour ozone standard.

This revision expands Regulation Number 7’s applicability to any Ozone NAA or
attainment/maintenance area. This is done intentionally to apply Regulation Number 7
requirements to current as well as any future Ozone NAA or attainment maintenance
areas in Colorado.

Additionally, this revision clarifies how the Regulation Number 3 RACT requirements
interact with Regulation Number 7. This revision specifies that pursuant to Regulation
Number 7, Section II.C. all existing sources that emit 100 tons per year of VOC
emissions and that are located in the 8-hour Ozone NAA become subject to RACT.

Further, Regulation Number 7 is currently unclear on whether or not existing sources
that are modified become subject to new source requirements. This revision clarifies
that existing sources that are modified are subject to the Regulation Number 3, Part B,
Section II.D. requirements and are considered to be a new source for the purposes of
Regulation Number 7.




                                                                                       397
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

This revision also clarifies that the both case-by-case and general RACT requirements
of Regulation Number 7, Section II.C. only apply to existing, new and modified sources.
For sources at which all air pollution generating activities at that source are already
subject to RACT or BACT, the RACT analysis would show that all activities are already
subject to RACT or BACT. For any other air pollution generating activities not covered
by RACT or BACT, the source would only have to complete a RACT analysis specific to
those activities.

Typographical, Grammatical, Formatting and Other Changes

The commission changed the title of Regulation Number 7 to include NOx. An outline of
the sections is provided to better understand the contents of Regulation Number 7.
Outdated sections are removed (i.e. Section II.F.1. specific to Gates Rubber Company,
which is now out of business). Section XII., specific to condensate tanks in the Ozone
NAA is reorganized for clarity. One appendix (new Appendix A) is added to provide
maps of Ozone NAAs and chronologies of attainment designations, of which certain
requirements key off. Finally, sections and appendices are renumbered and formatted
as necessary.

Section 110.5 and 110.8 Analysis

Some of these revisions are not intended to be incorporated into Colorado’s SIP. To the
extent these revisions could be construed to exceed the requirements of federal law, the
Commission provides the following additional statement, consistent with C.R.S. § 25-7-
110.5(5)(a):

(I)    These rules are intended to reduce uncontrolled emissions of ozone precursor
       pollutants. The rules thereby serve to attain and maintain compliance with the
       National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for Ozone. However, there are
       no comparable federal requirements that apply to the sources in question.

(II)   There are no applicable federal requirements, other than the duty to attain the
       ozone NAAQS. There is considerable flexibility in meeting the NAAQS. However,
       there are very limited sources of uncontrolled anthropogenic ozone precursor
       emissions to target in order to reduce ozone. Consequently, the sources in



                                                                                          398
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        question, as a significant source of uncontrolled VOCs and NOx, must be
        targeted in order to attain the standard.

(III)   There are no applicable federal requirements, other than the duty to attain the
        ozone NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not determined taking into account
        concerns that are unique to Colorado.

(IV)    These rules may prevent or reduce the need for costly retrofit to meet more
        stringent requirements at a later date. The DMA/NFR non-attainment area has
        violated the 0.08 ppm ozone NAAQS. Colorado will soon be required to comply
        with the new ozone NAAQS of 0.075 ppm. Colorado Governor Ritter has directed
        that Colorado air quality planning agencies implement measures to reduce ozone
        to a level below the NAAQS. If these rules are not adopted now, it may be
        necessary to require costlier retrofitting in order to meet the Governor’s directive
        as well as the new NAAQS.

(V)     Since there are no applicable federal requirements, there is no timing issue with
        regard to implementing federal requirements. However, these controls are
        intended to help the DMA/NFR attain the NAAQS. If the standard is not attained
        by the 2010 ozone season, the area may face a “moderate” non-attainment
        designation.

(VI)    The adopted rules will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin
        for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth.

(VII)   The adopted rules establish reasonable equity for sources subject to the rules by
        providing the same standards for similarly situated sources.

(VIII) If the state rules were not adopted, other sectors may face a disproportionate
        share of the burden of reducing precursor pollutants.

(IX)    There are no corresponding federal requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply. Sources are already using the
        control devices intended to be used to comply with these rules. However,
        sources face an additional burden of implementing auto-igniters and surveillance.
        The Commission anticipates a reasonable degree of delay in securing and


                                                                                         399
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        installing the technology in question and has accommodated the sources by
        providing for a reasonable delay for the application of these requirements.

(XI)    The adopted rules will reduce VOC and NOx emissions, thereby contributing to
        the prevention of the formation of ozone through the most cost-effective means
        available.

(XII)   Alternative rules requiring additional controls for other sources would also
        provide gains toward attaining the ozone NAAQS. However, oil and gas industry
        members are the largest anthropogenic stationary source of precursor pollutants
        in the State. A disproportionate benefit to this industry would accrue if their
        uncontrolled emissions remain at current levels compared to other stationary
        sources.

(XIII) A no-action alternative may address the ozone NAAQS. Modeling and other
        analysis suggests that the NAA would attain the standard by 2010 without these
        rules. However, this analysis suggests that ambient levels of ozone would be
        very close to the NAAQS. These rules provide more assurance of attaining the
        ozone NAAQS while also providing for reductions that are necessary to make
        progress toward the new ozone NAAQS. No action would only delay the
        necessary reductions.

Further, pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8(1), the Commission makes the determination
that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of ground-level ozone.

(III)   Evidence in this record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.




                                                                                          400
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(IV)   The rules are the most cost effective, provide the regulated community flexibility,
       and achieve any necessary reduction in air pollution.

(V)    The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
       regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

L.     January 7, 2011 (Outline and Sections I. and XVII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
C.R.S (the Act).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) promulgates this regulation
pursuant to the authority granted in §§ 25-7-105(1)(c), C.R.S. (authority to adopt a
prevention of significant deterioration program); 25-7-109(1)(a) (authority to require the
use of air pollution controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority to adopt emission control
regulations pertaining to visible pollutants); and 25-7-114.4(1) (authority to adopt rules
for the administration of permits).

Basis and Purpose

The Commission intends that the current Regulation Number 7, Section XVII.E.3.a.
identifying technology-based control requirements for existing rich burn reciprocating
internal combustion engines (RICE), or rich burn RICE that were constructed or
modified prior to February 1, 2009, become a NOx emission control measure that is
included as part of the Regional Haze SIP and become federally enforceable upon EPA
approval.

The technology-based control requirements of Section XVII.E.3.a. reduce NOx. This
proposal only changes the enforceability of these currently state-only requirements such
that they become federally enforceable. This proposal does not change emission
control, monitoring, recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

The Commission also intends that the following provisions, added in Sections
XVII.E.3.a.(i)(a) through (c), will continue to be effective under the Regional Haze SIP.


                                                                                        401
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Specifically, these provisions require good air pollution control practices and allow for
exemptions from the requirements for existing rich burn RICE. The exemptions apply to
any existing rich burn RICE either with uncontrolled actual emissions below permitting
thresholds or that is subject to a New Source Performance Standard (NSPS), National
Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP), or Best Available Control
Technology (BACT) limit.

Existing lean burn RICE requirements are not incorporated into the Regional Haze SIP,
as the associated controls do not reduce NOx or SO2.

Colorado has determined that it is reasonable and appropriate to make these RICE
requirements federally enforceable in this first planning period, as part of the state’s
strategy for addressing reasonable progress towards achieving natural visibility
conditions in federal Class I areas.

M.      December 20, 2012 (Sections II., XII., and XVII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), Colorado
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) for new and revised regulations.

Basis

Regulation Number 7 is designed to implement substantive regulatory programs
authorized under the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (Act) including
provisions of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) addressed in C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1)(a),
emission control regulations addressed in C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1)(b) and authorization of
the development of a program for the attainment and maintenance of the National
Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) in C.R.S. § 25-7-301, as well as other
authorized programs under the Act. The current revisions have been promulgated in
order to facilitate this goal. The revisions were made to address the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) partial disapproval of Colorado’s ozone SIP.

On August 5, 2011, EPA published the “Approval and Promulgation of State
Implementation Plans; State of Colorado; Attainment Demonstration for the 1997 8-Hour
Ozone Standard, and Approval of Related Revisions” (76 Fed. Reg. 47443, August 5,



                                                                                           402
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

2011). EPA partially approved and partially disapproved revisions to Colorado’s SIP
adopted by the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) in December 2008 and
submitted to the EPA in June 2009.

Statutory Authority

The statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. § 25-7-101, et seq., specifically, C.R.S. § 25-7-
105(12) (authorizing rules necessary to implement the provisions of the emission notice
and construction permit programs and the minimum elements of the operating permit
program), 109(1)(a), (2) and (3) (authorizing rules requiring effective practical air
pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources, including rules
pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, photochemical substances, as well as
rules pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum products and any other VOCs),
and § 25-7-301 (authorizing the development of a program for the attainment and
maintenance of the NAAQS).

Purpose

The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to address the EPA’s partial disapproval
of Colorado’s Ozone State Implementation Plan (“SIP’). On August 5, 2011, the EPA
issued a final action on Colorado’s June 2009, Ozone SIP submittal, both approving
Colorado’s attainment demonstration for the 1997 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (NAAQS) and disapproving specific revisions to Regulation Number 7.
76 Fed. Reg. 47443, August 5, 2011. Specifically, the EPA disapproved both the repeal
of Regulation Number 7, Section II.D. and all revisions to Section XII. as adopted by the
Commission in December 2008. As a basis for its action, the EPA stated that Colorado
demonstrated attainment with the 1997 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS, however Colorado did
not adequately provide an anti-backsliding demonstration for the revisions to Regulation
Number 7 that were adopted by the AQCC in December 2008, and submitted to the
EPA in June 2009.

The Commission intends that these 2012 revisions include both SIP and state-only
revisions that address EPA’s partial disapproval of SIP provisions in Sections II.D and
XII., and make related state-only revisions to Section XVII. for consistency. The


                                                                                         403
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission does not intend that these 2012 revisions add or strengthen emissions
control measures of Section II.D., XII. or XVII. at this time. All SIP revisions are intended
to specifically address those provisions that EPA included as part of its basis for
disapproving revisions to Regulation Number 7.

While the EPA indicated general approval of the concept of the June 2009 SIP
submittal, the EPA took exception to some of the details in the SIP revisions,
characterized as “deficiencies,” that formed the basis of EPA’s disapproval during the
SIP review process. EPA’s objections to the 2009 SIP revisions and the Commission’s
responses are summarized as follows:

       1.     Section II.D. – Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods

              EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the deletion of SIP approved
              language, allowing for alternative control plans and testing methods.

              Commission Response: The Commission reinstated the SIP approved
              language.

       2.     Section XII.C.2. – Emission Factor Calculation Methodology for
              Condensate Tanks

              EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the deletion of the term “gas-
              condensate-glycol separators” from the emission factor requirements for
              atmospheric condensate tanks.

              Commission Response: The Commission made no revision to the rule
              text, and instead explained to EPA that this term was used in error as such
              a separator does not exist. The term used here is a misnomer, which the
              Commission believes refers to a flash tank located on a glycol dehydration
              unit, covered by Section XII.H. It is inappropriate to apply emission factor
              calculation methodology for atmospheric condensate tanks to glycol
              dehydrators because their emissions vary greatly.

       3.     Section XII.D.2.a. – System-wide Control Requirements for Condensate
              Tanks




                                                                                         404
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the sunset of the system-wide control
           requirement in Section XII.D.2.a.(x), which ended the control requirement
           as of April 30, 2013.

           Commission Response: The Commission revised the system-wide control
           requirements so that the system-wide control requirements do not sunset.
           Neither the Commission nor the parties to the December 2008 rulemaking
           intended for the system-wide control to end. The sunset was
           unintentionally caused when making other revisions to the rule text.

     4.    Section XII.E.3. – Monitoring Combustion Devices as Control for
           Condensate Tanks

           EPA Objection: The EPA objected to providing a state-only monitoring
           option (electronic surveillance) as a substitution for the SIP required
           monitoring of combustion devices being used to control emissions from
           condensate tanks in accordance with Section XII.

           Commission Response: The Commission removed the option of
           conducting state-only electronic monitoring in lieu of the SIP approved
           monitoring requirement. This allowance to substitute a SIP required
           monitoring provision for a state-only monitoring provision was
           unintentional. None of the sources employing electronic surveillance may
           use it in place of the SIP approved requirement. If conducted, the
           electronic surveillance monitoring option must occur in addition to the SIP
           approved monitoring requirement.

     5.    Section XII.F.3. – Recordkeeping for Condensate Tanks

           EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the lack of SIP required
           recordkeeping for the control requirement in Section XII.D.1., which
           requires all condensate tanks at exploration and production sites to be
           controlled during the first 90 days of well production.

           Commission Response: The Commission revised Section XII.D.1. to
           specify it is state-only. The Commission and parties to the December 2008



                                                                                     405
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

           rulemaking intended for this first 90-day control requirement to be state-
           only, which corresponds to the state-only designation on the
           recordkeeping requirements under Section XII.F.3. Therefore, the
           Commission made no revision to Section XII.F.3., and instead revised
           Section XII.D.1. to alleviate this discrepancy.

     6.    Section XII.F.5. – Recordkeeping and Reporting Exemption for
           Compressor Stations and Drip Stations

           EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the removal of a SIP approved
           provision that exempted natural gas compressors or drip stations from
           recordkeeping and reporting requirements, where total emissions from
           such facilities are less than 30 tons per year.

           Commission Response: The Commission reinstated the SIP approved 30
           tons per year provision.

     7.    Section XII.G.2. – Control Equipment Requirement for Natural Gas
           Processing Plants

           EPA Objection: The EPA objected to two aspects of the revisions to this
           section. The first objection was replacement of the term “APEN de
           minimus levels” with “greater than or equal to two tons per year.” The
           second objection was inclusion of a rolling 12-month averaging period for
           the 95% control requirement.

           Commission Response: The Commission made no revision to the
           replacement of the term “APEN de minimus levels.” The Commission
           explained to the EPA that the associated modeling relied on evaluating
           condensate tanks with emissions greater than or equal to two tons of
           volatile organic compounds per year. Therefore, the change in reference
           does not constitute a lessening of the stringency of the rule. In addition,
           the Commission removed the rolling 12-month averaging period.

     8.    Section XII.G.5. Recordkeeping and Reporting for Alternative Compliance
           Option



                                                                                     406
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

              EPA Objection: The EPA objected to the reliance on Title V or construction
              permits as the location for recordkeeping and reporting requirements for
              condensate tanks at natural gas compressor or drip stations.

              Commission Response: The Commission revised this section to specify
              recordkeeping and reporting requirements for condensate tanks at natural
              gas compressor and drip stations.

        9.    Section XII.H. Control Requirements for Glycol Dehydrators

              EPA Objection: The EPA stated this entire section lacked clarity and
              contained redundant language.

              Commission Response: The Commission revised the section in its
              entirety, while maintaining the intent and applicability of the requirements.
              Along with this revision, the Commission specified that this control
              requirement is applicable only to glycol dehydrators with emissions equal
              to or greater than one ton per year, but that all glycol dehydrators at a
              stationary source must be included for comparison to the 15 ton per year
              threshold. The term stationary source is defined in the Common
              Provisions. Further, the Commission revised the provision to include
              emission calculation methodology requirements in Section XII. H.

Items 1-9 are all SIP revisions. In addition, the Commission is also revising the state-
only Section XVII.D. for consistency with the 2012 SIP revisions. The Commission does
not intend that this state-only revision change the applicability of the control
requirements for glycol natural gas dehydrators. Finally, the Commission made
typographical, grammatical, and formatting revisions, as necessary.

N.      February 23, 2014 (Sections II., XVII., and XVIII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis


                                                                                          407
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

On October 18, 2012, the Commission partially adopted federal Standards of
Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production, Transmission, and Distribution
found in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOO (“NSPS OOOO”) into Regulation Number 6,
Part A. During the partial adoption of NSPS OOOO, the Commission requested the Air
Pollution Control Division (“Division”) to consider full adoption at a later date and
directed the Division to identify additional oil and gas control measures that complement
and expand upon NSPS OOOO. This rulemaking is the result and further addresses the
volatile organic compound (“VOC”), an ozone precursor, and other hydrocarbon
emissions, such as methane, from the oil and gas sector.

The Commission supports the EPA’s development of NSPS OOOO and believes that
additional hydrocarbon control measures are warranted in Colorado for several reasons.
First, the Denver Metropolitan Area/North Front Range is in nonattainment with EPA’s
current 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”); it is likely that
EPA will lower the ozone NAAQS in the near future, potentially expanding Colorado’s
nonattainment area; and Division air monitors and other sampling indicate elevated
levels of oil and gas related air emissions in oil and gas development areas. Second,
Colorado has seen substantial growth of oil and gas development in recent years, which
is a significant source of VOC emissions, and expects that growth to continue in the
foreseeable future. In particular, oil and gas storage tanks contribute significantly to the
VOC emissions from oil and gas development.

Further, oil and gas operations also emit methane, a negligibly reactive ozone precursor
and potent greenhouse gas. Third, oil and gas operators have had difficulty meeting the
current 95% control requirements in Regulation Number 7 established for condensate
tanks in 2004 and 2006 due to “flash” emissions. Fourth, improved technologies and
business practices, many already utilized by Colorado oil and gas operators, can reduce
emissions of hydrocarbons such as VOCs and methane in a cost-effective manner.
These technologies and practices include, without limitation, auto-igniters, low- or no-
bleed pneumatic controllers, stabilized liquids or reduced tank pressures, flares
achieving at least 98% destruction efficiency, and leak detection and repair (including
the use of infrared (“IR”) cameras).



                                                                                         408
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

For these reasons and more, the Commission believes additional control measures
beyond the current requirements in Regulation Number 7 and NSPS OOOO are
appropriate. Colorado’s considerable experience with the regulation of oil and gas
sources involves both SIP and state-only requirements. During the rulemaking process,
various parties provided extensive evidence concerning whether the proposed
revisions, in particular the STEM and LDAR requirements, should apply either statewide
or only in the ozone nonattainment area. Based upon careful consideration of all the
evidence provided during the rulemaking, the Commission determined it was
appropriate to apply the proposed requirements statewide.

Further, in addition to the extensive evidence concerning the benefits of statewide
hydrocarbon emission reductions, the Commission believes that the tiered and phased
nature of many of the requirements properly focuses on emissions. Under this tiered
approach, lower emitting sources such as marginal, stripper, and coal bed methane
wells will appropriately be subject to less rigorous and costly requirements. In addition,
evidence in the rulemaking record and testimony of industry members supports the
conclusion that the rules can be effectively implemented.

Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the proposed rules are technologically
feasible and cost-effective. Moreover, because these revisions apply on a state-wide,
state-only basis, and are not a part of Colorado’s SIP, the Commission, the Division, and
stakeholders have the opportunity to further assess the implementation and
effectiveness of these requirements, to better inform future actions.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-101, et seq.,
(“Act”), C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and
are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article 7. The Act
broadly defines air pollutant and provides the Commission broad authority to regulate
air pollutants. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an
effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may
be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the


                                                                                       409
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state,
specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and (3)
of the Act authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and
practical air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources,
emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, and
emissions control regulations pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum
products and other VOCs. § 25-7-109(2)(c), in particular, provides broad authority to
regulate hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rational for the
adoption of the revisions. The Commission adopts revisions to Regulation Number 7 to
address hydrocarbon emissions from oil and gas facilities, including well production
facilities and natural gas compressor stations. The Commission expands existing oil and
gas control requirements and establishes additional monitoring, recordkeeping, and
reporting requirements. For example, the revisions increase control requirements and
improve capture efficiency requirements for oil and gas storage tanks. The Commission
also seeks to minimize fugitive emissions from leaking components at natural gas
compressor stations and well production facilities.

Further, the Commission intends to minimize emissions at new and modified oil and gas
wells and wells undergoing maintenance and during liquids unloading events. The
Commission also expands control requirements for pneumatic devices and glycol
natural gas dehydrators. The Commission believes that this combination of revisions is
appropriate to complement the full adoption of NSPS OOOO, and to further reduce
emissions produced by the oil and gas industry.

Among other things, these revisions:

   •   Expressly address hydrocarbon emissions in Section XVII. and XVIII.;

   •   Amend definitions in Section XVII.A. and XVIII.B.;




                                                                                        410
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

   •   Strengthen good air pollution control practices, require use of auto-igniters,
       remove the off-ramp for condensate tanks if subject to a NSPS, MACT, or BACT,
       and remove the leak detection and repair requirements off-ramp for glycol natural
       gas dehydrators and internal combustion engines if subject to a NSPS, MACT, or
       BACT in Section XVII.B.;

   •   Expand condensate tank control requirements to apply state-wide, to all
       hydrocarbon liquid storage tanks, and to smaller storage tanks in Section XVII.C.;

   •   Limit venting and establish a storage tank emissions monitoring system
       (“STEM”), and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in Section
       XVII.C.;

   •   Expand glycol natural gas dehydrator control requirements in Section XVII.D.;

   •   Establish a leak detection and repair program for natural gas compressor
       stations and well production facilities in Section XVII.F.;

   •   Establish control measures for oil and gas wells in Section XVII.G.;

   •   Limit venting during well maintenance and liquids unloading in Section XVII.H.;
       and

   •   Expand pneumatic device requirements in Section XVIII.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Joint Applicability of NSPS OOOO and Regulation Number 7, Sections XII. and XVII.

It is possible for storage tanks to be subject to NSPS OOOO and Regulation Number 7,
Sections XII. and XVII. While this creates some overlap between the different
requirements, the requirements secure different emissions reductions. Regulation
Number 7, Section XII. applies to condensate storage tanks in the 8-Hour Ozone
Nonattainment Area, whereas NSPS OOOO applies to storage vessels that contain


                                                                                         411
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

more than just condensate, such as produced water and crude oil. NSPS OOOO also
applies to individual storage vessels, whereas Regulation Number 7, Sections XII. and
XVII. apply to single tanks and, if manifolded together, the series of tanks in tank
batteries. In addition, NSPS OOOO applies to storage vessels with six (6) tons per year
(“tpy”) of controlled actual VOC emissions, whereas Regulation Number 7, Sections XII.
and XVII. base applicability on uncontrolled actual emissions. For these reasons, and
considering that portions of Regulation Number 7, Section XII. are approved in
Colorado’s SIP, the Commission intends for the federal and state rules to jointly apply to
storage tanks in Colorado.

Furthermore, because NSPS OOOO allows oil and gas operators to avoid applicability
by establishing enforceable emission limits below NSPS OOOO applicability thresholds
through a state, federal, or local requirement, most storage tanks subject to Regulation
Number 7 will not be subject to NSPS OOOO monitoring or recordkeeping
requirements. It is the Commission’s intent that compliance with Regulation Number 7,
Sections XII. and XVII. shall serve to establish legally and practically enforceable limits
for the purpose of estimating emissions from storage vessels under NSPS OOOO. In
those limited cases where storage tanks are subject to both NSPS OOOO and
Regulation Number 7 control requirements, Regulation Number 7 will require some
additional emissions monitoring. However, joint applicability is anticipated to be limited
to those storage tanks whose uncontrolled actual VOC emissions are one hundred and
twenty (120) tpy, the equivalent of the NSPS OOOO six (6) tpy VOC on a controlled
actual basis. While this means that more storage tanks are regulated under Regulation
Number 7, Section XVII., they are regulated on a state-only basis, and are not federally
enforceable like NSPS OOOO.

Thus, the Commission believes joint applicability is necessary and intentionally removed
storage tanks from the exemption in Section XVII.B.4. that allowed sources subject to
an NSPS, MACT, or BACT control requirement to avoid having to comply with Section
XVII.

It is also possible for glycol natural gas dehydrators and internal combustion engines to
be subject to both federal and Regulation Number 7, Section XVII. leak detection and



                                                                                        412
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

repair requirements. NESHAP HH and HHH require glycol natural gas dehydrators at
major sources of hazardous air pollutants (“HAP”) that utilize a closed-vent system to
conduct annual visual inspections for leaks and defects that could result in air
emissions. NESHAP HH and HHH also require detected leaks and defects be repaired
within fifteen days, as long as it is technically feasible to do so without a shutdown.
NESHAP HH also requires triethylene glycol (“TEG”) natural gas dehydrators located at
area sources of HAPs that utilize a closed-vent system to conduct annual visual
inspections. However, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 require more frequent
inspections of all types of glycol natural gas dehydrators at all facilities, resulting in more
emissions reductions than NESHAP HH and HHH. Therefore, the Commission believes
joint applicability concerning leak detection and repair requirements is necessary.

Applicability of Parts of Regulation Number 7 to Hydrocarbons

Many of the control measures set forth in these revisions have the benefit of reducing
both VOC and other hydrocarbon emissions, such as methane. Sections XVII. and
XVIII. have been revised to reflect the Commission’s intent that the provisions contained
therein reduce emissions of the broader category of hydrocarbons.

Visible Emissions

Regulation Number 7, Sections XII. and XVII. have historically contained a prohibition
on visible emissions from combustion devices, such as flares. The Commission is not
proposing to relax this requirement. To address comments from diverse stakeholders,
the Commission is clarifying how Division inspectors and the regulated community are
to determine compliance with the prohibition on visible emissions. The Commission has
qualified that visible emissions are emissions of smoke that are observed for a period in
duration of greater than or equal to one (1) minute during a fifteen (15) minute time
period, pursuant to EPA Method 22. The Commission expects that both Division
inspectors and the regulated community will, if any smoke is observed, determine
whether the emissions are considered visible emissions for purposes of Regulation
Number 7. The regulated community may, alternatively, immediately shut-in the
equipment to investigate the cause for smoke and perform repairs. While the presence
of visible emissions constitutes a violation of the rules, the Commission recognizes that


                                                                                           413
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

there may be instances where visible emissions occur notwithstanding the owner or
operator’s best efforts, such as when an upset or malfunction occurs. Accordingly, the
Division should consider the owner or operator’s efforts and whether the visible
emissions resulted from factors outside the owner or operator’s control in determining
how to best enforce this requirement.

Definitions (Section XVII.A.)

The Commission has revised or added definitions for several terms. Further explanation
for a few of these terms is set forth.

“Approved instrument monitoring method” (“AIMM”) means the methods and
technologies utilized for monitoring storage tanks and components at well production
facilities and natural gas compressor stations. The instrument being used for AIMM
inspections must be capable of measuring hydrocarbon compounds at the applicable
leak definition concentration specified in the revisions, and calibrated as appropriate.
See EPA Method 21 at 6.0. In addition, while the definition lists EPA Method 21 and IR
cameras, the Commission does not intend to limit industry to only EPA Method 21 and
IR cameras as the Division may approve the use of additional monitoring devices and
methods.

“Component” excludes compressor seals and open-ended valves and lines, which are
defined separately, because they are designed to leak and are better addressed with
equipment specific work practices, also included separately. Based on concerns that the
requirements for small reciprocating compressors at well production facilities may not
be cost-effective, the adopted work practices for reciprocating compressors are limited
to reciprocating compressors located at natural gas compressor stations. Nevertheless,
there is an issue as to whether compressors at well production facilities are a significant
source of emissions. The Commission, therefore, directs the Division to investigate
whether reciprocating compressors at well production facilities are a significant source
of emissions, and if so, whether there may be appropriate, cost-effective work practices
to reduce fugitive emissions from reciprocating compressors at well production facilities.
The Commission further directs the Division to brief the Commission on this
investigation in March, 2015.


                                                                                       414
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

“Date of first production” is meant to coincide with the date reported to the Colorado Oil
and Gas Conservation Commission’s (“COGCC”) as the “date of first production,” as
currently used in COGCC Form 5A. The Commission intends for oil and gas sources to
use only one date for compliance with both COGCC and Commission requirements.

“Natural gas compressor stations” are subject to leak detection and repair requirements.
This definition is meant to exclude compressors at well production facilities and gas
processing plants. This definition is also meant to exclude natural gas compressor
stations that are downstream of the natural gas processing plant at this time.

“Normal operation” is considered to include all operation, including maintenance and
other activities, as long as the operation does not meet the definition of “malfunction” as
set forth in the Common Provision regulations.

“Storage tank,” means a single storage tank or a storage tank battery if the storage
tanks are manifolded together. In recent years, it has become more common for multiple
storage tank batteries, sometimes containing different hydrocarbon liquids, to be
manifolded at the emissions line and routed to a common control device. To further
clarify the concept of manifolded within the definition of “storage tank,” the Commission
revises the definition of storage tank to specify that a storage tank battery must be
manifolded by liquid line, and not just by gas or emission line. This revision is in keeping
with the rationale that a single tank could have been used to capture liquids in place of
multiple small storage tanks in a battery. The Commission’s definition, and Colorado’s
approach to emissions reporting and permitting for storage tanks, differs from EPA’s
definition of “storage vessel” and the description of an affected storage vessel facility in
NSPS OOOO because EPA considers each individual tank, even those in a battery
manifolded by liquid line, to be a storage vessel for comparison against the applicability
threshold. The Commission intends to maintain this distinction and, therefore, deletes
the previously used definition of “atmospheric condensate storage tank” and creates a
new definition of “storage tank” which expands upon the definition of storage vessel in
NSPS OOOO to include storage vessels manifolded together by liquid line.

“Well production facilities” are also subject to leak detection and repair requirements
and storage tank maintenance requirements. This definition is meant to include all of the


                                                                                          415
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

emission points, as well as any other equipment and associated piping and
components, owned, operated, or leased by the producer located at the same stationary
source (a defined term specific to permitting). The “owned, operated, or leased” qualifier
in the definition is not meant to reduce the stringency of LDAR requirements in
situations where there are multiple owners or operators of the well production facility.
This definition is meant to exclude natural gas compressor stations from “well
production facility” and avoid overlapping LDAR requirements. This definition is also
meant to exclude natural gas storage wells.

Good Air Pollution Control Practices (Section XVII.B.)

The Commission intends that all oil and gas operations, including those below control
thresholds or even below Regulation Number 3 APEN and permitting thresholds, adhere
to good general air pollution control practices. Examples of what the Commission
considers to be a good air pollution control practice include, but are not limited to:

   •   Keeping the thief hatch, pressure relief valve, or other access point on storage
       tanks closed and properly sealed during normal operation, unless being actively
       used during periods of maintenance or liquids loadout from the storage tank;

   •   Inspecting and repairing seals on thief hatches, access points, or other openings
       of storage tanks;

   •   Initiating timely action to address leaks or unpermitted emissions; and

   •   Maintaining equipment and the facility in good operating condition.

Venting vs. Leaking (Sections XVII.B., XVII.C., and XVII.F.)

The Commission believes that emissions caused by over pressurization of oil and gas
equipment are foreseeable, are not adequately addressed by NSPS OOOO, and should
be addressed in Colorado specific regulations. The Commission intends these revisions
to address venting emissions from storage tank thief hatches, pressure relief valves, or
other access points during normal operations. Access points are not limited to points of
entry of liquids or gas into the storage tank but include any route from which emissions
can escape. The Commission recognizes that pressure release valves and other
devices are meant to operate as safety devices and that venting for safety purposes


                                                                                         416
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

may occur due to sudden, unavoidable equipment failures or surges beyond normal or
usual activities that could not have been reasonably foreseeable, avoided, or planned.
For example, an unplanned third party outage resulting in increased pressure along the
system may be the type of malfunction or scenario where venting may be necessary for
safety purposes. The Commission does not intend to increase risk or compromise
safety of personnel and equipment. However, inadequate design of a storage tank
emissions capture system is not a legitimate reason for venting.

Therefore, the Commission intends that the malfunction affirmative defense in the
Common Provisions regulation continue to be available to owners or operators,
provided that the owners or operators demonstrate that the elements of the malfunction
defense have been met. The Commission intends that the burden remain on the owner
or operator to demonstrate that an emission should not be considered venting as
provided in Section XVII.C.2. The Commission further recognizes that meeting the no
venting requirement may be challenging in some cases, and accordingly has adopted
additional provisions requiring owners and operators to develop a STEM plan to help
ensure compliance. In some cases, development and implementation of the STEM plan
may be an iterative process involving ongoing improvements before continuous
compliance with the no venting standard is achieved. With this in the mind, the Division
should consider the efforts of owners and operators in developing and implementing
their STEM plan as part of the Division’s assessment about how best to enforce the no
venting requirement.

In contrast with venting, leaking as used in Section XVII.F. more specifically relates to
unintended emissions from components at well production facilities and natural gas
compressor stations. Identification and repair of leaks in accordance with these
revisions benefits the public, the environment, and the oil and gas industry. The
Commission has determined that leaks discovered by the owner or operator or the
Division inspector pursuant to the detection methods specified in Section XVII.F. shall
not be subject to enforcement by the Division under certain circumstances.

For example, if a leak is identified and the owner or operator is in the process of timely
and properly addressing the leak in accordance with these revisions, the Division should



                                                                                        417
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

afford the owner or operator the opportunity to fix the leak absent enforcement.
However, by this provision, the Commission does not intend to exempt owners or
operators from their obligation to operate without venting or to utilize good air pollution
control practices at all times.

Storage Tanks Controls (Section XVII.C.)

EPA established a six (6) tpy VOC threshold on a controlled actual emissions basis for
applying storage vessel controls. In contrast, Colorado uses the sum total emissions
from a tank battery, where multiple tanks are manifolded together, on an uncontrolled
actual emissions basis for applying reporting, permitting, and control requirements. This
means that the EPA’s six (6) tpy threshold on a controlled actual emissions basis
applies to individual tanks having the equivalent of one hundred and twenty (120) tpy
VOC on an uncontrolled actual basis. Thus, more storage tanks are regulated under
Regulation Number 7, Section XVII. than under NSPS OOOO.

The Commission intends that under Regulation Number 7, Section XVII., air pollution
control equipment may be removed if: (1) the storage tank (including manifolded tanks)
emissions fall below the uncontrolled actual six (6) tpy threshold, on a rolling twelve-
month basis; and (2) those controls are not required by other applicable requirements.
Conversely, if storage tank emissions increase above the uncontrolled actual six (6) tpy
threshold on a rolling twelve-month basis, air pollution control equipment must be
installed within sixty (60) days of discovery of the increase.

The Commission does not intend for the storage tank control, or related, requirements
to apply to frac tanks that are located at a well production facility for less than 180
consecutive days.

Control Efficiency (Section XVII.C.)

The Commission expands the 95% control efficiency requirement to apply to storage
tanks containing any hydrocarbon liquids (including condensate, crude oil, produced
water, and intermediate hydrocarbon liquids), for consistency with NSPS OOOO.
Produced water and crude oil storage tanks, which in years past were thought to have
insignificant emissions, can instead be significant sources of emissions. This rule



                                                                                           418
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

change is also a result, in part, of the removal of the APEN exemption in 2008 for tanks
containing crude oil and less than 1% crude. The Commission intends that the air
pollution control equipment achieve an average hydrocarbon control efficiency of at
least 95%, and if a combustion device is used the device must have a design
destruction efficiency of at least 98%, with few exceptions. The Commission recognizes
and expects that most flares can control hydrocarbon emissions by 98% or more when
properly operated.

Audio, Visual, Olfactory (“AVO”) and Visual Inspections (Section XVII.C.)

The Commission intends that owners and operators of subject storage tanks (including
storage tanks during the first ninety (90) days of production and storage tanks
containing only stabilized liquids) conduct applicable AVO and visual inspections for
venting or leaking. Visual inspections are in addition to AVO monitoring and require
further inspections of the storage tank and associated equipment, such as thief hatches
and air pollution control equipment. These inspections are not required to occur at the
same time as loadout. Instead, loadout triggers the requirement for AVO and visual
inspection, and indicates the frequency at which inspection is required.

Storage Tank Emission Management System (“STEM”) Plan, Monitoring, and
Recordkeeping (Section XVII.C.)

Owners and operators of storage tanks with uncontrolled actual emissions equal to or
greater than six (6) tpy must develop, certify, and implement a STEM plan designed to
ensure compliance with the “without venting” requirement of Section XVII.C.2., among
other requirements. Through STEM, owners and operators must evaluate and employ
appropriate control technologies, monitoring, maintenance, and operational practices to
avoid venting of emissions from storage tanks. The Commission intends that sources
have flexibility to develop STEM plans on an individual basis for each storage tank or for
multiple storage tanks. However, upon request, the owner or operator must be able to
identify to the Division what STEM plan applies to a storage tank and make that plan
available for review. Owners and operators of storage tanks controlled during the first
ninety (90) days of production or containing only stabilized liquids are not required to
develop and implement a STEM plan. However, owners or operators of such storage


                                                                                           419
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

tanks must still comply with applicable control, capture, monitoring, and recordkeeping
requirements.

For purposes of clarification, the STEM plan is intended to include, but is not limited to,
the following elements:

   •   A monitoring strategy including, at a minimum, the applicable inspection
       frequencies and methodologies;

   •   An identification of the personnel conducting the monitoring, and any training
       program, materials, or training schedule for such personnel. This element does
       not require training, but ensures that any training be documented to permit the
       owner or operator to demonstrate the quality and achievements of the STEM
       plan;

   •   The calibration methodology and schedule for emission detection equipment
       used in the monitoring;

   •   An analysis of the engineering design of the storage tank and air pollution control
       equipment, and where applicable, the technological or operational methods
       employed to prevent venting;

   •   An identification of the procedures to be employed to evaluate ongoing capture
       performance after implementation of the STEM plan;

   •   A procedure to update the STEM plan when capture performance is not
       adequate, the STEM design is not operating properly, when otherwise desired by
       the owner or operator, or when required by the Division; and

   •   The certification made by the appropriate personnel with actual knowledge of the
       STEM design for each storage tank.

In addition to AVO and visual inspections for storage tanks, STEM plans must include
AIMM inspections on a frequency schedule that is tied to the uncontrolled actual VOC
emissions from the storage tank. The Commission intends that the AIMM inspection
satisfy any simultaneous AVO and visual inspection requirement.




                                                                                        420
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The STEM plan should be maintained by the owner or operator for the life of the storage
tank, while records of applicable monitoring only need to be retained for a period of two
years. Upon sale or transfer of ownership of a storage tank, the relevant documentation
and records should be transferred with the ownership. Owners and operators are
encouraged to reevaluate any existing STEM plan for the storage tank upon purchase
or acquisition of the storage tank.

Unsafe, Difficult, or Inaccessible to Monitor (Sections XVII.C. and XVII.F.)

The Commission does not intend to require owners or operators to conduct either AVO
or AIMM inspections of unsafe, difficult, or inaccessible components or storage tanks
and associated equipment. The Commission acknowledges that, in limited
circumstances, unsafe to monitor may include unsafe weather or travel conditions.
However, in those limited circumstances, the Commission expects the owner or
operator to resume monitoring once the weather or travel conditions cease to be
unsafe. Importantly, the Commission does not intend to allow owners or operators to
delay required monitoring for the entire winter season.

Glycol Natural Gas Dehydrators (Section XVII.D.)

The Commission expanded the state-wide control requirements for glycol natural gas
dehydrators. This revision requires that all existing glycol natural gas dehydrators with
uncontrolled actual VOC emissions of six (6) tpy or greater be controlled with air
pollution control equipment achieving at least a 95% reduction. This revision also
requires that existing glycol natural gas dehydrators with uncontrolled actual VOC
emissions of two (2) tpy or greater be controlled if the dehydrator is located within 1,320
feet of a building unit or designated outside activity area. The definitions for building unit
and designated outside activity area are taken from COGCC regulations.

The Commission does not intend to apply this proximity requirement to the glycol
natural gas dehydrator owner or operator’s buildings, where public access to the
building is also restricted. Further, because glycol natural gas dehydrators are different
and unique sources, a similar proximity requirement for storage tanks is not appropriate
at this time as storage tanks are more appropriately addressed based on emission
thresholds.


                                                                                          421
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

This revision also requires that all new glycol natural gas dehydrators with uncontrolled
actual VOC emissions of two (2) tpy or greater be controlled with air pollution control
equipment achieving at least 95% reduction. If a combustion device is used, it must
have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98%, with few exceptions. The
Commission recognizes and expects that most flares can control hydrocarbon
emissions by 98% or more when properly operated.

Leak Detection and Repair Requirements (Section XVII.F.)

The Commission believes the detection and timely repair of leaks is important in the
efforts to reduce hydrocarbon emissions. The use of appropriate inspection instruments
and methods, such as IR cameras, enhances the detection and reduction of emissions.
The leak detection and repair program more broadly targets leaks from components at
natural gas compressor stations and well production facilities, even if such facilities do
not include storage tanks. In contrast, STEM targets venting from storage tanks. The
use of an AIMM as it relates to leak detection and repair frequency is generally intended
to complement the STEM monitoring schedule. The Commission has created a phased
schedule and tiered approach for leak detection and repair that is based on emissions,
recognizing that smaller operators and facilities may have lower emissions and may
need additional time to comply. Owners or operators have flexibility in how to meet the
leak detection and repair requirements, including utilizing their own equipment and
personnel or hiring a third party contractor. Owners or operators also have flexibility in
timing the AVO and AIMM inspections to coordinate overlapping AVO and AIMM
inspections, as well as inspections of facilities in the same area or on the same
inspection frequency. The Commission intends that the AIMM inspection satisfy any
simultaneous AVO inspection requirement. However, the Commission expects that
owners and operators will also utilize this flexibility to ensure that inspections are
appropriately spaced on the frequency schedule (e.g. quarterly inspections will occur
every three months but not, for example, on March 31 and April 1).

The Commission distinguished between new and existing well production facilities by
utilizing an October 1, 2014, commenced construction date and created an inspection
phase-in schedule for existing facilities.



                                                                                          422
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also distinguished the emissions thresholds for determining inspection
frequencies for well production facilities with storage tanks and well production facilities
without storage tanks. For well production facilities with storage tanks, the threshold
determining inspection frequency is based on the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions
from the highest emitting storage tank. For well production facilities without storage
tanks, the threshold determining inspection frequency is based on “facility emissions.”
The Commission has determined that “facility emissions” means the controlled actual
VOC emissions from all permanent equipment, including fugitive emissions calculated
using the emission factors defined as less than 10,000 ppmv of Table 2-8 of the 1995
EPA Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates.

The Commission has defined a leak requiring repair in a manner that is dependent on
the monitoring methodology. Leak detection methodologies have varied abilities to
identify emission quantity and chemical makeup. EPA Method 21, for example, detects
and quantifies hydrocarbon emission concentration, but does not speciate hydrocarbons
(e.g., methane from other hydrocarbons) or identify the emission rate. Similarly, while IR
cameras are becoming much more prevalent as a more affordable, time-saving, and
user-friendly tool, they also do not speciate hydrocarbons or quantify the emission
concentration. The Commission provides owners and operators flexibility in selecting a
leak detection methodology.

If EPA Method 21 is utilized, the Commission set the threshold at which component
leaks must be repaired at 2,000 parts per million (“ppm”) hydrocarbons for existing
natural gas compressor stations and 500 ppm for new (constructed after May 1, 2014)
natural gas compressor stations and new and existing well production facilities. Where
IR camera or AVO monitoring is utilized, a leak is any detectable emission not
associated with normal equipment operation (e.g. the acceptable level of leaks from a
component designed to leak). These values were determined based in part on a review
of current federal or state leak detection and repair requirements for natural gas
processing plants, refineries, and other oil and gas sources.

Leak detection values have decreased over time, in recognition of improved
technologies and business practices. NSPS OOOO identifies leaks at natural gas



                                                                                          423
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

processing plants at 500 ppm. Prior to NSPS OOOO, leaks were identified in other New
Source Performance Standards (NSPS KKK and NSPS VVa) at 10,000 ppm. In
addition, California, Wyoming, and Pennsylvania have varying leak detection and repair
requirements and approaches to defining a leak. Some California air quality districts
generally define a minor leak as between 1,000 and 10,000 ppm. Wyoming does not
have a numerical limit. Pennsylvania essentially defines a leak at a well pad as anything
with detectable emissions utilizing Method 21, as more than 2.5% methane or 500 ppm
VOC, or no visible leaks using an IR camera. Upon consideration of all of the evidence
presented, the Commission chose to define component leak at the foregoing thresholds.

The Commission expects that leaks that are not located specifically at a component will
be addressed and repaired, in accordance with the general requirements to minimize
emissions and employ good air pollution control practices. Further, the Commission
finds that the repair deadlines set forth in Section XVII.F.7. provide flexibility for
operational differences, including the potential range of leaks and degrees of repair
difficulty that may be encountered. The Commission anticipates that many operators will
choose to utilize IR cameras, in light of their relative ease of use and increased reliance
by both by industry and regulators within Colorado and across the country. The
Commission expects that owners and operators will remonitor leaks requiring repair with
either the approved instrument monitoring method the owner or operator used to identify
the leak or any method approved for remonitoring of leaks under EPA Method 21.

The Commission expects that in most instances the leak detection and repair
requirements of this regulation will apply in lieu of leak detection and repair
requirements in permits existing as of the promulgation date of the revisions. The
Commission recognizes that leak detection and repair requirements in a few state
permits may be federally enforceable, and this state-only regulation cannot supersede
federal requirements. The Commission expects the Division and owners and operators
to work cooperatively on the efficient implementation of leak detection and repair
requirements, in those rare instances where there may be duplicative or competing
requirements. During the rulemaking, several parties requested more stringent
requirements for all oil and gas operations located within 1,320 feet of a building unit or
designated outside activity area. Residents living within close proximity to oil and gas


                                                                                         424
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

operations, particularly those living within 1,320 feet of oil and gas operations, may
understandably have heightened concerns regarding potential impacts of emissions
from such facilities. It is the Commission’s understanding that some oil and gas owners
and operators implement practices beyond what is currently required under state law in
order to minimize emissions and otherwise be good neighbors, including conducting
increased site inspections. The Commission supports such practices.

Also during the rulemaking, various parties provided extensive evidence concerning the
frequency of instrument monitoring method inspections, the timing of leak repair, and
the costs and benefits associated with more or less frequent monitoring and repair. The
Commission recognizes that additional information would benefit the Commission,
Division, industry, and other stakeholders and therefore encourages the Division to work
with energy companies, to evaluate the comparative effectiveness of various kinds of
instrument based monitoring methods and program designs at a range of types, sizes,
and frequencies at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations. The
Commission also encourages the Division to work with industry and other stakeholders
to evaluate emissions from and potential control strategies for downstream natural gas
compressor stations and intermittent pneumatic controllers.

Lastly, several parties to the rulemaking requested greater transparency and public
access to air quality information associated with oil and gas development. In particular,
a coalition of local community organizations requested that owner and operators’ annual
reports as required by these rules be posted on the Division’s website. The Commission
believes these reports will provide important information when reviewing the efficacy of
the inspection and maintenance program, as well as valuable information to interested
citizens, particularly those who live in close proximity to oil and gas facilities. Therefore,
the Commission requests that the Division make this information available in the most
efficient means possible, which may include posting on the Division’s website individual
reports and/or a compilation summary. In addition, the Commission requests an annual
briefing on these regulations. Such briefing will assist the Commission and interested
stakeholders to understand the data and implementation issues relating to this new
program, as well as other initiatives covered in this rulemaking. The Commission
believes that this information would also be valuable to all parties.


                                                                                           425
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Well Maintenance and Liquids Unloading (Section XVII.H.)

Over time, liquids build up inside a well and reduce flow out of the well. These liquids
can slow and even block gas flow in wet gas wells and are removed during a well
blowdown, also called liquids unloading. As a result of recent information, EPA has
significantly increased their emission factor for liquids unloading. The uncontrolled
emission factor is based upon fluid equilibrium calculations used to estimate the amount
of gas needed to blow down a column of fluids blocking a well and Natural Gas STAR
partner data on the amount of additional venting after a blowdown. Similar to the issues
with well maintenance and well completion emissions, considerable uncertainty for
liquid unloading emissions arises from the limited data sources used and the
applicability of Natural Gas STAR program activities to calculate industry baseline
emissions. This is especially important as liquid unloading emissions are estimated to
comprise 33% of the uncontrolled methane emissions from the natural gas industry in
the latest greenhouse gas inventory. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program advocates the
use of a plunger lift system to reduce the need for liquids unloading, and indicates that
such systems may pay for themselves in about one year. The Commission has
determined that the use of technologies and practices to minimize venting, including
plunger lift systems, are available and economically feasible, and encourages their use
in Colorado.

Pneumatic Controllers (Section XVIII.)

The Commission recognized in a December 2008, rulemaking that pneumatic devices
are a significant source of emissions. In addition, a 2013 University of Texas study
concluded that methane emissions from pneumatics are higher than EPA previously
estimated. Therefore, expanding the current low-bleed pneumatic device requirements
statewide and further reducing emissions is appropriate and cost-effective. However,
the Commission does not intend to expand the pneumatic device requirements to
intermittent pneumatic controllers at this time. Further, while the use of low-bleed
pneumatic controllers will result in a significant reduction of VOC and methane
emissions from Colorado oil and gas facilities, no-bleed pneumatic controllers are
currently commercially available to further reduce emissions from these sources.



                                                                                        426
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

However, because these devices can only be used at facilities with adequate electric
power, and given the high cost of electrifying a facility, the Commission is only requiring
the use of no-bleed pneumatic controllers at facilities that are connected to the electric
grid, using electricity to power equipment, and where technically and economically
feasible.

Additional Considerations

In accordance with C.R.S. §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3) the Commission states the
rules in Sections XVII. and XVIII. of Regulation Number 7 adopted in this rulemaking are
state-only requirements and are not intended as additions or revisions to Colorado’s SIP
at this time.

In accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission determines:

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address VOC and other hydrocarbon
emissions from oil and gas facilities, including storage tanks, glycol natural gas
dehydrators, pneumatic controllers, well production facilities, and natural gas
compressor stations. In addition to NSPS OOOO, NSPS Kb, and NSPS KKK, NESHAP
HH, and NESHAP HHH may also apply to such oil and gas facilities. However, the
Regulation Number 7 revisions apply on a broader basis to more storage tanks, glycol
natural gas dehydrators, leaking components, and pneumatic controllers, and address
more hydrocarbon emissions. For example, the Regulation Number 7 revisions address
more glycol natural gas dehydrators than the major source provisions of NESHAP HH
and HHH as well as more glycol natural gas dehydrators than the area source
provisions of NESHAP HH, which are limited to TEG dehydrators. Similarly, the
Regulation Number 7 revisions address more storage tanks than the major source
provisions of NESHAP HH, as well as NSPS Kb, which exempt certain storage vessels
storing condensate or petroleum prior to custody transfer. In addition, the Regulation
Number 7 revisions address more component leaks than the major source provisions of
NESHAP HH, as well as NSPS KKK, which has a 10,000 ppm leak threshold and only
applies at natural gas processing plants.




                                                                                         427
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Compared to NSPS OOOO, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 will apply a low- or
no-bleed control requirement to more pneumatic controllers because NSPS OOOO only
requires zero bleed pneumatic controllers at natural gas processing plants, while the
Regulation Number 7 revisions no-bleed provision applies to all facilities. The revisions
to Regulation Number 7 will also require a leak detection and repair program for more
oil and gas operations because NSPS OOOO only requires leak detection and repair for
natural gas processing plants, AVO inspections for storage vessels with controlled
actual emissions greater than six (6) tpy, and annual visual inspections for leaks for
subject centrifugal compressors. In contrast, the revisions to Regulation Number 7
require a leak detection and repair program for all components at all well production
facilities and natural gas compressor stations. Further, the revisions to Regulation
Number 7 will require storage tanks with uncontrolled actual emissions equal to or
greater than 6 tpy VOC to control emissions with 95% efficiency, while NSPS OOOO’s
threshold is 6 tpy controlled actual emissions (i.e. 120 tpy uncontrolled actual
emissions). It is the Commission’s determination that, given the current and projected
levels of oil and gas development in Colorado combined with the advances in
technology and business practices utilized by oil and gas operators, the revisions to
Regulation Number 7 are appropriate to further address hydrocarbon emissions from
this sector. Such emission reductions will, among other things, protect public health and
the environment, address current and future ozone concerns specific to Colorado,
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and ensure the maximum beneficial use of a
valuable natural resource.

(II)   NSPS OOOO, and the other federal rules discussed in (I), are primarily
       technology-based in that they largely prescribe the use of specific technologies in
       order to comply. EPA has provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOO by allowing a
       storage vessel to avoid being subject to NSPS OOOO if the storage vessel is
       subject to any state, federal, or local requirement that brings the storage vessel’s
       emissions below the NSPS OOOO threshold (greater than or equal to 6 tpy
       controlled actual VOCs). The Commission chose to set the revised Regulation
       Number 7 controls at 6 tpy on an uncontrolled actual emissions basis, and
       therefore provide Colorado’s oil and gas operators a limit for calculating the


                                                                                         428
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        controlled potential to emit of their storage vessels, which may be used to avoid
        NSPS OOOO applicability.

(III)   Other federal requirements do not specifically and fully address the issues of
        concern to Colorado, or take into account concerns that are unique to Colorado.
        Specifically, during the development of NSPS OOOO, Colorado submitted
        comments regarding, among other things, concerns with the storage vessel
        definition, storage vessel control requirements, and lack of leak detection and
        repair requirements. Colorado’s concerns were not fully addressed in NSPS
        OOOO, therefore, the Commission believes the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 are necessary to: (a) address hydrocarbon emissions in a more comprehensive
        manner; (b) address oil and gas operations and equipment at lower thresholds
        than NSPS OOOO thresholds, yet that collectively have significant VOC and
        other hydrocarbon emissions in Colorado; (c) address venting of emissions from
        storage tanks at oil and gas facilities caused primarily by over pressurization; and
        (d) address leaks of fugitive hydrocarbon emissions, particularly from well
        production facilities and natural gas compressor stations.

(IV)    Compliance with the control requirements in the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 provide Colorado’s oil and gas operators a limit for calculating the controlled
        potential to emit of their storage vessels, thereby allowing many of these sources
        to avoid regulation under NSPS OOOO. Additionally, the revisions may prevent
        or reduce the need for costlier retrofits at a later date. Colorado may be required
        to comply with a lower ozone NAAQS in the near future and the Denver
        Metro/North Front Range area is currently in nonattainment with the ozone
        NAAQS, while other areas in the State are seeing elevated ozone levels,
        including areas of increasing oil and gas development. The revised rules are
        proactive and intended to reduce ozone levels now by utilizing controls and
        techniques already being used by some Colorado oil and gas operators, or that
        are readily available.

(V)     Adoption of these revisions at this time allows many of Colorado’s oil and gas
        operators to utilize the controls established in the revisions to Regulation Number



                                                                                          429
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        7 to avoid NSPS OOOO storage vessel requirements. Postponement of adoption
        would potentially subject these sources to compliance with NSPS OOOO and
        then compliance with State requirements once State controls become effective.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 do not place limits on the growth of
        Colorado’s oil and gas industry. Instead, the rules address hydrocarbon
        emissions from the oil and gas sector in a cost-effective manner, allowing for
        continued growth of Colorado’s oil and gas industry. Indeed, the oil and gas
        industry has already grown in Colorado while utilizing many of the technologies
        and practices set forth in these revisions.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for oil and gas
        owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for
        similarly situated and sized sources. Rules of general applicability have been
        developed along with tiered requirements and exclusions that tailor the rules to
        the regulated sources within the oil and gas sector. Furthermore, the application
        of the Regulation Number 7 revisions to oil and gas owners and operators
        regardless of location in the ozone nonattainment or attainment areas is
        equitable because the nonattainment area is not the only area in Colorado with
        ozone issues. For example, the Rangely monitor in western Colorado shows
        violations of the 2008 ozone standard and existing modeling shows that either
        the nonattainment area has increased its contribution to background ozone or
        ozone concentrations in the attainment area flowing into the nonattainment area
        have increased. Notably, the Division’s inventory shows that the oil and gas
        industry contributes more than 50% of the VOC emissions outside the
        nonattainment area. This monitoring, modeling, and inventory data, considered
        with the likelihood of a lower ozone NAAQS and the expected growth of the oil
        and gas sector state-wide, supports the application of the Regulation Number 7
        revisions to oil and gas sources in both the nonattainment and attainment areas.

(VIII) The oil and gas industry is a large anthropogenic stationary source of VOCs, a
        precursor pollutant to ozone. If the revisions to Regulation Number 7 are not
        adopted, other aspects of oil and gas operations or other sectors may be looked



                                                                                         430
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       to for additional emission reductions. In reductions must come from other
       operations or sectors at this time, the cost effectiveness would decrease because
       these revisions reduce emissions from the most significant contributors to VOC
       emissions and costs will be higher for less emissions reductions from less
       significant contributors.

(IX)   The majority of sources subject to the revised rules in Regulation Number 7 will
       not be subject to federal procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements.
       Those few sources subject to both NSPS OOOO (e.g. storage vessels emitting
       120 tpy uncontrolled actual VOC emissions) or NESHAP HH and HHH (e.g.
       glycol natural gas dehydrators at major sources of HAPs and TEG glycol natural
       gas dehydrators at area sources of HAPs) and Regulation Number 7 will be
       required to comply with both regulations. The procedural, reporting, and
       monitoring requirements of Regulation Number 7, to the extent different than
       federal requirements, are necessary to ensure compliance with and document
       the effectiveness of the revisions.

(X)    Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
       Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable
       in the 8-Hour Ozone Nonattainment Area state-wide, such as the requirements
       for auto-igniters and pneumatic controllers. In addition, oil and gas owners and
       operators are already using many of the control devices and techniques intended
       to be used to comply with these revisions. The lead-in time provides owners and
       operators time to install control devices and develop plans for compliance.
       Should unanticipated events occur, such as a lack of availability of control
       devices, the revisions provide for Division approved extensions to compliance.

(XI)   As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
       7 will contribute to the prevention of hydrocarbon emissions in a cost-effective
       manner. Significantly, the Commission expressly finds that the cost-effectiveness
       of the VOC emission reductions alone supports the revisions to Regulation
       Number 7. The reductions of other hydrocarbon emissions, such as methane,




                                                                                      431
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        add to the already cost-effective and appropriate emission reduction
        requirements.

(XII)   Alternative rules, such as the alternative proposals provided by several parties
        during the rulemaking process, requiring differing or additional controls for oil and
        gas facilities could also provide reductions in hydrocarbon emissions. The
        Commission could have adopted some or all of the proposed revisions or
        proposed alternatives. However, the proposed revisions to Regulation Number 7
        were developed during a lengthy stakeholder process and provided a balanced
        approach, reducing emissions from the oil and gas industry while allowing the
        sector to continue to play a critical role in Colorado’s economy and the nation’s
        energy independence. The alternative proposals provided during the rulemaking
        process were primarily either more or less stringent versions of the proposed
        revisions, further illustrating the balanced approach of the proposed revisions.
        Furthermore, a no action alternative would very likely only delay future reductions
        in hydrocarbon emissions, including ozone precursor pollutants, necessary for
        reducing ozone in Colorado.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

The incorporation by reference of NSPS OOOO in Regulation Number 6 does not affect
the requirements of these revisions to Regulation Number 7. Instead, these revisions to
Regulation Number 7 are designed and intended to address differences and overlaps
between NSPS OOOO and current state requirements, and to include additional
emission control measures for oil and gas production and equipment. To the extent that
C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all the
information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of hydrocarbon emissions.


                                                                                         432
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall being about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(VI)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

O.      November 17, 2016 (Sections I., X., XII., XIII., XVI., XIX.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

On May 21, 2012, the Denver Metro/North Front Range (“DMNFR”) area was
designated as Marginal nonattainment for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (“NAAQS”), effective July 20, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 30088). On May 4,
2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) published a final rule that
determined that DMNFR area failed to attain the 2008 8-hour Ozone NAAQS by the
applicable Marginal attainment deadline and therefore reclassified the DMNFR area to
Moderate and required attainment of the NAAQS no later than July 20, 2018, based on
2015-2017 ozone season data. Due to the reclassification, additional planning
requirements were triggered, including the requirement to submit revisions to the State
Implementation Plan (“SIP”) that address the Clean Air Act’s (“CAA”) Moderate
nonattainment area requirements, as set forth in CAA Section 182(b) and the final SIP
Requirements Rule for the 2008 Ozone NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6,
2015)).

Statutory Authority




                                                                                        433
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-101, et seq.,
(“Act”), § 25-7-105(1)(a) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations necessary for the proper implementation and administration of a
comprehensive state implementation plan that will assure attainment and maintenance
of national ambient air quality standards. § 25-7-301 directs the Commission to develop
a program providing for the attainment and maintenance of each national ambient air
quality standard in each nonattainment area of the state.

§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary or
desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106(1)(c) and (2) also authorize the
Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state,
specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution, and monitoring and
recordkeeping requirements. § 25-7-109(1)(a) authorizes the Commission to
promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for
significant sources and categories of sources of air pollutants.

Purpose

The Regional Air Quality Council (“RAQC”) and the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment, Air Pollution Control Division (“Division”) conducted a public
process to develop the associated SIP and supporting rule revisions. Separately, EPA
had expressed concerns with approving previous Regulation Number 7 revisions related
to oil and gas control requirements and submitted in 2009 and 2013 for inclusion in
Colorado’s ozone SIP.

In response to these related but separate issues, the Commission revised Regulation
Number 7 to strengthen Colorado’s ozone SIP; and include reasonably available control
technology (“RACT”) requirements for lithographic and letterpress printing, industrial
cleaning solvents, and major sources of volatile organic compounds (“VOC”) or nitrogen
oxides (“NOx”). More specifically, the Commission revised the applicability of Regulation
Number 7 in Section I.A.1.; included the existing combustion device auto-igniter
requirements in Section XII.C.1.e. and XII.E.2. in Colorado’s ozone SIP; included
existing audio, visual, olfactory (“AVO”) storage tank inspection requirements for


                                                                                         434
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

condensate storage tanks in Colorado’s ozone SIP in Section XII.E.4.e.; added
requirements for lithographic and letterpress printing in Section XIII.B.; added
requirements for industrial cleaning solvents in Section X.E.; and added requirements
for major sources in Sections XVI. and XIX.

Apart from the Moderate nonattainment area ozone SIP, the Commission revised
Regulation Number 7 to address EPA’s monitoring, recordkeeping, reporting, and other
concerns with previously submitted Regulation Number 7 revisions. The Commission
updated federal rule references for natural gas processing plants in Section XII.G.1.;
renumbered the current Sections XII.G.5. and XII.G.6. under Section XII.I.; added
monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements for glycol natural gas
dehydrators in Sections XII.H.5. and XII.H.6.; and addressed other EPA concerns in
Sections XII.C.1.c., XII.C.1.d., XII.C.2.a.(ii)(B), XII.E.3., and XII.H.4.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Ozone reclassification SIP revisions

8-hour ozone control area

All provisions of Regulation Number 7 currently apply to the Denver 1-hour ozone
nonattainment and attainment/maintenance area. The 1-hour ozone area does not
include all of Adams and Arapahoe counties or the portions of Larimer and Weld
counties included in the 8-hour ozone control hour. Therefore, to ensure that all sources
in the 8-hour ozone nonattainment area are subject to applicable RACT requirements in
Regulation Number 7 on a federally enforceable basis, the Commission revised
Regulation Number 7, Section I.A.1.a. to state that all provisions apply to both the 1-
hour and 8-hour ozone areas. The Commission intends that provisions clearly marked
“state-only” continue to be enforceable only on a state-only basis, and are not included
in the SIP.



                                                                                          435
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Auto-igniter and storage tank AVO

Regulation Number 7, Section XII.C.1.e. includes auto-igniter requirements for
combustion devices used to control emissions of VOCs. Pursuant to Section XII.E., the
auto-igniter must be inspected weekly to ensure it is properly functioning. Prior to the
revision, these requirements were “state-only”. The Commission revised these
provisions to include the auto-igniter installation, operation, and monitoring
requirements in the SIP.

Regulation Number 7, Section XII.E. includes requirements for owners or operators of
condensate storage tanks subject to Section XII.D. to inspect combustion devices,
vapor recovery units, control devices, and thief hatches. These are SIP requirements.
Regulation Number 7, Section XVII.C.1.d. also requires of owners or operators of
storage tanks subject to Section XVII. to conduct AVO and additional visual inspection
at the same frequency as liquids load-out. The requirements of Section XVI.C.1.d. are
enforceable on a “state-only” basis. The Commission revised Section XII. to include in
the SIP, the requirement that owners and operators conduct AVO inspections of
condensate storage tanks with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions of 6 tons per year
(“tpy”) or greater, making them federally enforceable.

Lithographic and letterpress printing RACT

Pursuant to CAA Section 182(b), Colorado’s ozone SIP must provide for implementation
of RACT at sources of VOC for which EPA has issued a Control Technique Guideline
(“CTG”). EPA’s Offset Lithographic Printing and Letterpress Printing CTG (“Printing
CTG”) addresses VOC emissions from the use of fountain solutions, cleaning materials,
and inks at lithographic and letterpress printing operations. The Printing CTG
recommends controlling VOC emissions from heatset printing with dryer emissions of at
least 25 tpy of VOC from heatset inks with add-on control technology. The Printing CTG
recommends controlling VOC emissions from cleaning materials and fountain solutions
at printing operations with facility emissions equal to or greater than 15 lb/day by limiting
the VOC content of cleaning materials and fountain solutions. The Printing CTG also
recommends work practices for printing operations with facility emissions equal to or
greater than 15 lb/day.


                                                                                         436
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Colorado has sources in the ozone nonattainment area in this CTG VOC source
category not currently subject to regulatory RACT requirements. Therefore, the
Commission included these requirements in Section XIII.B. as RACT for these sources.
However, rather than an applicability threshold of 15 lbs/day, the Commission adopted
an applicability threshold of 3 tpy. This is roughly equivalent to the 15lbs/day threshold
recommended in the Printing CTG. Based on the Printing CTG, the Commission added
language to Section XIII.B.1.b. clarifying that fountain solutions, cleaning materials, inks
(which include varnishes) and coatings used in lithographic and letterpress printing
presses are considered part of the printing process and are not subject to the surface
coating or industrial cleaning solvent requirements in Regulation Number 7. With
respect to the compliance threshold for Section XIII.B., if the preceding 2 calendar year
average indicates that a source meets or exceeds the 3 tpy threshold, then the source
must comply with Section X.E. for the current calendar year. Only emissions from the
printing operation and cleaning thereof should be considered in determining if emissions
exceed 3 tpy.

The Commission included additional work practices, a VOC content limit for inks and
monitoring, recordkeeping and performance testing requirements that are not specified
in the Printing CTG but are intended to correspond to current permit requirements and
ensure the enforceability of the requirements. With respect to the work practice
requirements contained in Section XIII.B.1.c., the Commission applied these
requirements to all lithographic and letterpress printing operations, regardless of
potential or actual VOC emissions, because they are minimally burdensome, good
housekeeping requirements that reduce emissions and correspond to current permit
requirements.

With respect to the VOC content limit for inks, the Commission included a 40% limit for
heatset web offset and heatset web letterpress printing operations that require higher
VOC content ink, and a 30% limit for all other lithographic and letterpress printing
operations that are commonly already using low VOC inks. Compliance with the VOC
content requirement for inks is demonstrated using a weighted average which takes into
account the amount of the different inks used and their respective VOC contents.



                                                                                        437
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

For consistency with the Printing CTG, cleaning solutions are subject to VOC content or
vapor pressure requirements, except that sources using less than 110 gallons of non-
compliant cleaning materials per calendar year are exempt from the VOC content or
vapor pressure requirements. Larger heatset printing operations, whose maximum
allowable emissions before controls from petroleum inks are 25 tpy VOC or more, are
subject to a control requirement (not capture and control). Printing operations’ emissions
are more difficult to capture, and so capture is not considered in the percent control
requirements. However, good air pollution control practices apply at all times.

Industrial cleaning solvents RACT

EPA’s CTG for Industrial Cleaning Solvent (“Cleaning Solvent CTG”) addresses solvent
use in cleaning operations such as spray gun cleaning, spray booth cleaning, large
manufactured components cleaning, parts cleaning, equipment cleaning, line cleaning,
floor cleaning, tank cleaning, and small manufactured components cleaning. The
Cleaning Solvent CTG applies to facilities with VOC emissions from the use of industrial
cleaning solvents equal to or greater than 15 lb/day of VOC. The Cleaning Solvent CTG
recommends a cleaning solvent VOC content limit and work practices.

Colorado has sources in the ozone nonattainment area in this Cleaning Solvent CTG
VOC source category not currently subject to regulatory RACT requirements. Therefore,
the Commission included requirements in Section X.E. as RACT. However, rather than
an applicability threshold of 15 lbs/day, the Commission adopted an applicability
threshold of 3 tpy on a calendar basis. This is roughly equivalent to the 15lbs/day
threshold recommended in the CTG. The Commission intended for the term “industrial
cleaning solvent operation” to be broad and apply to a wide range of work areas where
manufacturing or repair activities are performed, but not to residential or janitorial
cleaning.

The Commission included language to clarify that VOC emissions that are exempt from
the industrial cleaning solvent rule do not count toward this 3 tpy threshold. Therefore,
when determining whether a facility meets the applicability threshold of 3 tpy, a source
should include facility-wide emissions from all industrial cleaning solvent operations and
subtract those emissions that are exempt under Section X.E.4. In adopting the VOC


                                                                                         438
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

content limit in Section X.E.1.a. and the vapor pressure limit in Section X.E.1.b., the
Commission intended for these to be straight, as-applied limits for all industrial cleaning
solvents used and not a weighted average. Additionally, in adopting the 90% control
efficiency compliance option in Section X.E.1.c., the Commission did not intend for this
control efficiency to include capture efficiency. The Commission acknowledged that
capture efficiency may be lower than the control efficiency because industrial cleaning
solvents are often used over large industrial complexes and result in relatively small
VOC emissions.

With respect to the compliance threshold for Section X., if the preceding 2 calendar year
average indicates that a source meets or exceeds the 3 tpy threshold, then the source
must comply with Section X.E. for the current calendar year. The Commission also
included monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements that are not specified in
the Cleaning Solvent CTG but are intended to align with current permit recordkeeping
requirements and ensure the enforceability of the requirements.

The Commission included language in Section X.E.4.a.(ii) providing that industrial
cleaning solvent operations subject to a work practice or emission control requirement
in another federally enforceable section of Regulation Number 7 that establishes RACT
are exempt from the requirements of Section X. This provision was included so as not to
subject sources to overlapping, duplicative, or contradictory RACT requirements.

Therefore, if an industrial cleaning solvent operation is subject to a work practice or
emission control requirement contained in another, federally approved section of
Regulation Number 7, including but not limited to Sections IX. (surface coating
operations), X.B. through X.D. (solvent cold-cleaners, non-conveyorized degreasers,
and conveyorized degreasers), and XIII. (graphic arts and printing), then that operation
would not also be subject to the requirements of Section X.E.4. However, this provision
is not intended to exempt an industrial cleaning solvent operation from Section X. when
the operation is subject to the restriction on disposal of VOCs by evaporation or spillage
contained in to Section V.A. (and RACT is determined to be nothing). Therefore, if an
industrial cleaning solvent operation is subject to Section V.A. and RACT is determined
to be nothing, the operator must comply with Section X. Conversely, if an industrial



                                                                                          439
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

cleaning solvent operation is subject to Section V.A. and RACT is determined to be a
work practice or emission control requirement, then the operation is exempt from
Section X. Lastly, the Commission adopted additional exemptions recommended in the
Cleaning Solvent CTG in Section X.E.4.b. as well as an alternative compliance option
for area source aerospace facilities in Section X.E.4.c. due to the unique solvent
cleaning needs of those source categories.

Control requirements do not account for capture and control. General industrial solvent
use emissions are more difficult to capture, and so capture is not considered in the
percent control requirements. However, good air pollution control practices apply at all
times.

Major VOC and NOx source RACT

Colorado has major sources of VOC or NOx (sources that emit or have the potential to
emit greater than 100 tpy) in the DMNFR. While many of these sources are currently
subject to regulatory RACT requirements in Colorado’s SIP, some of the sources or
emissions points are subject to RACT requirements in federally enforceable permits or
New Source Performance Standard (“NSPS”) or National Emission Standard for
Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAP”). However, as a Moderate nonattainment area,
Colorado is submitting a SIP revision to include provisions requiring the implementation
of RACT for major sources of NOx or VOC in the DMNFR. Therefore, the Commission
included a work practice for combustion equipment at major sources of NOx emissions
in Section XVI., a requirement for specific major sources to provide RACT analyses to
the Division in Section XIX.B., and incorporated by reference applicable requirements of
a NSPS or NESHAP in Sections XIX.C-G.

Specifically, the Commission adopted a combustion process adjustment requirement for
individual pieces of combustion equipment at major sources of NOx in Section XVI.D.,
expanding on work practices currently required in federal NESHAP. The combustion
process adjustment was modeled after NESHAP DDDDD, which applies to boilers and
process heaters at major HAP sources, and NESHAP ZZZZ, which establishes various
requirements for stationary reciprocating internal combustion engines. Section XVI.D. is
intended to apply to some equipment that is not subject to work practices under the


                                                                                       440
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

NESHAPs (e.g., natural gas fired boilers at area sources of HAPs) that have
uncontrolled actual NOx emissions (annual emission rate corresponding to the annual
process rate listed on the Air Pollutant Emission Notice without consideration of any
emission control equipment or procedures) equal to or greater than 5 tpy. The
Commission intended major NOx sources to use the most recent APEN submitted to the
Division as of January 1, 2017, to determine whether the combustion equipment is
subject to the requirement to conduct an initial combustion process adjustment by April
1, 2017, or alternatively document reliance on an allowed, alternative adjustment.
Subsequent determinations will be based on the most recent APEN submitted to the
Division as of the year the combustion equipment may be subject to the combustion
process adjustment requirements (e.g., most recent APEN submitted to the Division as
of January 1, 2018, to determine whether a combustion process adjustment is required
in 2018). In addition to the specific adjustment requirements, the Commission intended
owners and operators to operate and maintain subject equipment consistent with
manufacturer specifications or best combustion engineering practices.

The Commission also established RACT requirements for emission points at major
sources of VOC or NOx in the DMNFR area in Section XIX. In Section XIX.A., the
Commission listed all major sources of VOC or NOx at the time of adoption of the
Moderate nonattainment area RACT SIP. The Commission determined that not all
emission points above permitting thresholds at major sources were necessarily subject
to existing regulatory RACT requirements in Regulation Number 7 or federally
enforceable emission limits in Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP. Therefore, in Sections
XIX.C. through XIX.G., the Commission incorporated federal NSPS or NESHAP
requirements, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, for
some sources to further satisfy Colorado’s RACT obligation for Colorado’s major VOC
and NOx sources. The Commission acknowledges concerns over potential EPA
revisions to NSPS and NESHAP incorporated by reference in Sections XIX.C. through
XIX.G., and intended that sources comply with applicable requirements in the most up-
to-date version of the federal rule, or alternative requirements approved by EPA in
accordance with the NSPS or NESHAP. The Commission also directs the Division to
initiate efforts to update the incorporation by reference in the SIP, as necessary and with


                                                                                        441
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

all due diligence. Sources identified in Section XIX.A. but not specifically included in
Sections XIX.B. through XIX.G., were determined to be subject to other, existing
regulatory RACT requirements in Colorado’s SIP (see the Moderate ozone SIP revision,
RACT Chapter 6 and the Technical Support Document for Reasonably Available Control
Technology for Major Sources for additional detail). Concerning major sources or source
emission points not subject to other, existing regulatory RACT requirements in
Colorado’s SIP or specified in Sections XIX.C. through XIX.G., the Commission required
owners or operators to submit RACT analyses for the facility or specific emission points
to the Division by December 31, 2017. The RACT analyses should identify potential
options to reduce NOx and/or VOC emissions from the facility or emission point(s),
propose RACT for that facility or point, propose associated monitoring, propose a
schedule for implementation, and include economic and technical information showing
why the RACT proposal is RACT for the particular facility or point. These RACT
analyses are not to be limited by a January 1, 2017, implementation date.

CoorsTek submitted a permit application to limit permitted emissions of VOC below 100
tpy. Metro Wastewater Reclamation District submitted an application for minor
modification to its Title V permit to correct inconsistencies and remove obsolete limits,
which lowered the combined Metro Wastewater/Suez Denver Metro permitted NOx
emission limit below 100 tpy. Consequently, the Commission determined that the
facilities no longer met the definition of a major source, and therefore were not included
in Section XIX. Should either source fail to obtain such federally enforceable permits by
July 1, 2018, the Commission directs the Division, with all due diligence, to initiate
efforts to establish RACT requirements for that source in Colorado’s ozone SIP.

Current SIP review

In 2009, the Commission submitted revisions to Regulation Number 7, Section XII. to
EPA related to the 1997 ozone NAAQS attainment plan. In 2011, EPA approved the
attainment demonstration but disapproved portions of the Regulation Number 7
revisions. In 2013, the Commission submitted revisions to Regulation Number 7,
Section XII. to EPA to address EPA’s disapproval. During the review of the 2013
submittal, EPA noted additional concerns with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and



                                                                                           442
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

reporting requirements for natural gas processing plants and glycol natural gas
dehydrators, as well as other concerns unrelated to the attainment demonstration for
the SIP revision required following the reclassification of the DMNFR area to Moderate.

Natural gas processing plants

Regulation Number 7, Section XII.G.1. identifies a leak detection and repair (“LDAR”)
program applicable to natural gas processing plants. This “LDAR program” includes all
applicable requirements in NSPS KKK. EPA has promulgated new LDAR programs for
natural gas processing plants in NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa. Therefore, the
Commission updated references to applicable federal NSPS (i.e., NSPS OOOO and
NSPS OOOOa) monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements for natural gas
processing plants in the SIP.

Glycol natural gas dehydrators

Regulation Number 7, Section XII.H. already includes a 90% control requirement for
glycol natural gas dehydrators. This is a SIP requirement. During the review of the 2013
submittal, EPA noted practical enforceability concerns with the monitoring,
recordkeeping, and reporting requirements for glycol natural gas dehydrators.
Therefore, the Commission added monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
requirements for glycol natural gas dehydrators in the SIP to address EPA’s concerns
with ensuring compliance with the control requirement. The Commission based these
requirements off of the Division’s glycol natural gas dehydrator Operation and
Maintenance Plan template to align the Section XII.H. monitoring, recordkeeping, and
reporting requirements with the Operation and Maintenance Plan template, where
possible. For any glycol dehydration system monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting
requirement adopted for inclusion in the SIP during this hearing that conflicts with a
similar provision in a Division approved Operation and Maintenance Plan, the
Commission intends that sources only have to comply with the provision adopted for
inclusion in the SIP and not the competing requirement in the approved Operation and
Maintenance Plan. Further, the Commission directs the Division to work with industry to
revise the Division’s glycol dehydration systems Operating and Maintenance Plan
template to remove requirements that are duplicative of the Section XII.H. monitoring,


                                                                                         443
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, to alleviate competing requirements with
Section XII.H., as necessary.

EPA requested revisions

EPA also noted concerns with other previously submitted provisions in Section XII. EPA
requested minor changes to Section XII.C.1.c., and a reversion to previously approved
SIP language in Sections XII.C.1.d. and XIII.E.3.a. to address concerns with
discretionary language. In response, the Commission revised Section XII.C.1.c. and
reverted to previously approved SIP language in Sections XII.C.1.d. and XII.E.3.a., as
requested by EPA.

Incorporation by Reference in Section XIX

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission
to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met
by including specific information, making the regulations available and because
repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. However, these regulations are included in the SIP in
order to establish RACT, which must be included in the SIP to satisfy CAA Sections
172(c) and 182(b). Therefore, in order to comply with Part D of the CAA, the
Commission has incorporated federal regulations in Section XIX.C through H by
reference.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone Moderate
nonattainment area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the
provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour
ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to ensure
attainment with the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS and satisfy Colorado’s Moderate
nonattainment area obligations, including those related to RACT. The Commission also
adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to address EPA concerns that are unrelated
to the reclassification to Moderate. These revisions do not exceed or differ from the



                                                                                        444
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment area SIPs; however, in
accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission nonetheless determines:

   (I) The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address combustion device auto-igniters,
          condensate storage tank inspections, and glycol natural gas dehydrators at oil
          and gas facilities and equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants.
          NSPS OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, NSPS Kb, NSPS KKK, NESHAP HH, and
          NESHAP HHH may also apply to such oil and gas facilities. However, the
          Regulation Number 7 revisions apply on a broader basis to more storage
          tanks and glycol natural gas dehydrators. For example, Regulation Number 7
          addresses more glycol natural gas dehydrators than the major source
          provisions of NESHAP HH and HHH as well as more glycol natural gas
          dehydrators than the area source provisions of NESHAP HH, which are
          limited to tri ethylene glycol (“TEG”) dehydrators. The Commission revised
          Regulation Number 7 to include glycol natural gas dehydrator monitoring,
          recordkeeping, and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with the
          current 90% system-wide control requirement in Section XII.D.




                                                                                          445
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

  (II) Similarly, Regulation Number 7 addresses more storage tanks than the major
        source provisions of NESHAP HH, as well as NSPS Kb, which exempt certain
        storage vessels storing condensate or petroleum prior to custody transfer.
        Regulation Number 7 also addresses a broader set of storage tanks than
        NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa, which address only those storage tanks
        with emissions greater than 6 tpy controlled actual emissions (i.e., 120 tpy
        uncontrolled actual emissions) and do not require auto-igniters on combustion
        devices. The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include the auto-
        igniter and condensate storage tank AVO inspections in Colorado’s SIP to
        strengthen Colorado’s SIP and support Colorado’s 2017 emissions inventory.
        In addition, Regulation Number 7 addresses more equipment leaks at natural
        gas processing plants than NSPS KKK, which only applies to natural gas
        processing plants constructed, reconstructed, or modified after January 20,
        1984. The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to reference the more
        recent equipment leak detection and repair requirements in NSPS OOOO and
        NSPS OOOOa.

     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 also address RACT requirements for
     lithographic and letterpress printing, industrial cleaning solvents, and major
     sources of VOC and NOx in Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area. EPA
     published CTGs for lithographic and letterpress printing and industrial cleaning
     solvents in 2006. The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include
     regulatory RACT requirements for these VOC source categories. Colorado’s
     major sources of VOC and NOx are subject to various and numerous NSPS or
     NESHAP, Regulation Number 7 RACT requirements, or RACT/beyond RACT
     analyses. The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include regulatory
     RACT requirements for Colorado’s major sources of VOC and NOx in the SIP.
     Specifically, the Commission revised Regulation Number 7, Sections XVI. and
     XIX. to include source specific regulatory RACT requirements and a combustion
     process adjustment for combustion equipment at major sources of NOx. MACT
     DDDDD, MACT JJJJJJ, MACT ZZZZ, MACT YYYY, NSPS GG, NSPS KKKK,
     NSPS IIII, and NSPS JJJJ may apply to such combustion equipment. However,


                                                                                       446
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        the Regulation Number 7 revisions apply on a broader basis to more combustion
        equipment.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I), are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies in order to comply. EPA has
        provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa by allowing a
        storage vessel to avoid being subject to NSPS OOOO if the storage vessel is
        subject to any state, federal, or local requirement that brings the storage vessel’s
        emissions below the NSPS OOOO threshold.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. In addition,
        Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally
        enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s Moderate nonattainment
        area RACT obligations. Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its
        SIP directly, as the Commission has done here.

(IV)    Colorado will be required to comply with a lower ozone NAAQS in the near
        future. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established a January 1, 2017, deadline for this SIP submission. There
        is no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Section XII. strengthen Colorado’s SIP,
        which currently addresses emissions from the oil and gas sector in a cost-
        effective manner, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s oil and gas
        industry. The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Sections X. and XIII. recognize
        products and practices currently utilized by printing and industrial cleaning
        solvent operations. The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Sections XVI. and XIX.


                                                                                          447
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        are also specific to existing emission points at major sources of VOC and NOx,
        allowing for continued growth at Colorado’s major sources.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Section XII. establish reasonable equity
        for oil and gas owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the
        same standards for similarly situated and sized sources. The revisions to
        Regulation Number 7 Sections X., XIII., and XVI. similarly establish the
        categorical RACT requirements for similarly situated and sized sources. Where a
        source is not subject to a categorical RACT requirement, RACT is, by its nature,
        determined on a case-by-case basis.

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2018, EPA will
        likely reclassify Colorado as a serious ozone nonattainment area, which
        automatically reduces the major source thresholds from 100 tons per year of
        VOC and NOx to 50 tons per year; thus subjecting more sources to major source
        requirements. If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a
        Federal Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s
        sources. Either of these outcomes may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for auto-igniters, condensate storage tank inspections,
        and equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants. Other revisions reflect
        changes in industry practice and market forces, such as the VOC content of
        printing materials and cleaning solvents. Similarly, the revisions concerning major
        sources of VOC and NOx generally reflect current emission controls and work
        practices.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.




                                                                                        448
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(XII)    Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to attain the
         NAAQS. The Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was
         reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no action alternative would very likely
         result in an unapprovable SIP.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the Moderate Nonattainment
area requirements. However, to the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply
to this rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the
Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)      These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
         sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
         information submitted by interested parties.

(II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
         demonstrable reduction of the ozone precursors VOC and NOx.

(III)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall being about
         reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
         implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)     The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
         results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
         reduction in air pollution.

(V)      The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
         regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

P.       November 16, 2017 Revisions to Section II., XII., Section XVII., and Section
XVIII.
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §§ 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.
(“the Act”).


                                                                                           449
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Basis

On May 4, 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) published a final
rule that determined that Colorado’s Marginal ozone nonattainment area failed to attain
the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”). EPA,
therefore, reclassified the Denver Metro North Front Range (“DMNFR”) area to
Moderate and required attainment of the NAAQS no later than July 20, 2018, based on
2015-2017 ozone data.

As a result of the reclassification, on May 31, 2017, Colorado submitted to EPA
revisions to its State Implementation Plan (“SIP”) to address the Clean Air Act’s (“CAA”)
Moderate nonattainment area requirements, as set forth in CAA § 182(b) and the final
SIP Requirements Rule for the 2008 Ozone NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March
6, 2015)). As a Moderate nonattainment area, Colorado must revise its SIP to include
Reasonably Available Control Technology (“RACT”) requirements for each category of
volatile organic compound (“VOC”) sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline
(“CTG”) for which Colorado has sources in the DMNFR that EPA finalized prior to a
nonattainment area’s attainment date. EPA finalized the Control Techniques Guidelines
for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (“Oil and Gas CTG”) on October 27, 2016, with a
state SIP submittal deadline of October 27, 2018. Given this timing, the November
2016, SIP revisions did not include RACT for the oil and natural gas source category
and Colorado must further revise its SIP.

The Oil and Gas CTG recommends controls that are presumptively approvable as
RACT and provide guidance to states in developing RACT for their specific sources. In
many cases, Colorado has similar, or more stringent, regulations comparable to the
recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG, though many of these provisions are not
currently in Colorado’s Ozone SIP. Therefore, the Commission is adopting RACT for the
oil and gas sources covered by the Oil and Gas CTG (CTG as of October 27, 2016) into
the Ozone SIP (Sections XII. and XVIII.). In order to make additional progress towards
attainment of the NAAQS, the Commission is also adopting State Only revisions to
require owners or operators of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers in the DMNFR
area to inspect and maintain pneumatic controllers. Further, the Commission is making



                                                                                       450
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

clarifying revisions and typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout Regulation Number 7.

Specific Statutory Authority

§ 25-7-105(1) of the Act directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and
are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of the Act. The Act
broadly defines air pollutant and provides the Commission broad authority to regulate
air pollutants. § 25-7-301 directs the Commission to develop a program providing for the
attainment and maintenance of each national ambient air quality standard in each
nonattainment area of the state. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum
flexibility in developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such
combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations
applicable to the entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution.
§§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and (3) of the Act authorize the Commission to promulgate
regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for significant sources
and categories of sources, emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides
and hydrocarbons, and emissions control regulations pertaining to the storage and
transfer of petroleum products and other VOCs. § 25-7-109(2)(c), in particular, provides
the Commission broad authority to regulate hydrocarbons.

Purpose

As discussed, Colorado must adopt RACT into its Ozone SIP for sources covered by
the Oil and Gas CTG. While the Oil and Gas CTG recommends presumptive RACT, it
does allow states the flexibility to determine what constitutes RACT for the state’s
covered sources. Further, while EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG implementation memorandum
provides guidance that the emission controls determined by the state to be RACT for
the sources covered by the Oil and Gas CTG must be implemented as soon as
practicable but in no case later than January 1, 2021, states also have the flexibility to
determine the appropriate implementation timeframe for the sources within the state’s
ozone nonattainment area. The Commission determined that some of Colorado’s


                                                                                          451
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

existing regulations (i.e., the “system-wide” control program for condensate tanks in
Section XII.D.2.) achieve greater emission reductions than the RACT recommended by
the Oil and Gas CTG. The Commission determined that some sources covered by the
Oil and Gas CTG were not addressed in existing regulations (i.e., pneumatic pumps).

The Commission also determined that some sources addressed in the Oil and Gas CTG
(i.e., components at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations,
compressors, pneumatic controllers) are already subject to existing regulations that
were not yet part of Colorado’s Ozone SIP. The Commission adopted many of these
rules in 2014, and intends to preserve the substance of these rules, where possible, in
moving them into the Ozone SIP, while making a few adjustments and improvements in
response to recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG. The Commission also adopted
correlating revisions to the applicability provisions of Sections II. and XII.

The Commission relied on existing regulations in the Ozone SIP for RACT for
condensate storage tank controls to satisfy Colorado’s obligation to address storage
vessels under the Oil and Gas CTG. The Commission adopted requirements for
pneumatic pumps in Section XII. to address recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG.
The Commission revised the existing SIP requirements in Section XII.G. for equipment
leaks at natural gas processing plants to address recommendations in the Oil and Gas
CTG. The Commission duplicated into the Ozone SIP from Section XVII. provisions for
compressors and leak detection and repair (“LDAR”) for components at well production
facilities and natural gas compressor stations. The Commission adjusted these LDAR
requirements to address recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG, along with updates
to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Corresponding revisions to the LDAR
program in Section XVII. are made on a State Only basis. The Commission also revised
Section XVIII. to include existing State Only requirements for continuous bleed, natural
gas-driven pneumatic controllers in the Ozone SIP and specify that continuous bleed,
natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers located at natural gas processing plants
maintain a natural gas bleed rate of zero scfh.

The Commission adopted State Only provisions for the inspection and maintenance of
natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers in Section XVIII.



                                                                                         452
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also made clarifying revisions and corrected typographical,
grammatical, and formatting errors found within the regulation.

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Oil and Gas CTG, generally

The Oil and Gas CTG provides recommendations for states to consider in determining
RACT for certain oil and natural gas industry emission sources. EPA included storage
vessels, pneumatic controllers, pneumatic pumps, compressors, equipment leaks, and
fugitive emissions in the Oil and Gas CTG because EPA determined that these sources
are significant sources of VOC emissions. EPA defines RACT as “the lowest emission
limitation that a particular source is capable of meeting by the application of control
technology that is reasonably available considering technological and economic
feasibility.” States may implement approaches that differ from the recommendations in
the Oil and Gas CTG so long as they are consistent with the CAA, EPA’s implementing
regulations, and policies on interpreting RACT.

Applicability to hydrocarbons (Section II.B.)

Section II.B. currently exempts negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds, such as
methane and ethane, from requirements of the SIP, while making hydrocarbon
emissions, including methane and ethane, subject to State Only regulation under
Sections XVII. and XVIII. Section XVII. sets a threshold for leaks requiring repair that is
based on the concentration of hydrocarbons, as determined using EPA Method 21.
Section XII.L. applies the same EPA Method 21 hydrocarbon threshold for leaks
requiring repair. The Commission revised Section II.B. to clarify that the Section XII.L.
hydrocarbon threshold and Section XVIII. natural gas emission standards serve only as
VOC indicators and the SIP does not regulate hydrocarbon emissions.

The continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controller requirements in Section
XVIII. reduce natural gas emissions, which consists of other pollutants in addition to
VOCs. Despite the presence of other constituents, natural gas is principally methane



                                                                                          453
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

and the Commission intends to regulate emissions of natural gas as hydrocarbons,
including methane and ethane, on a State Only basis as described in Sections II.B. and
XVIII. The Oil and Gas CTG also utilizes a natural gas bleed rate standard for
continuous bleed pneumatic controllers and the Oil and Gas CTG LDAR program
employs a methane-based threshold for EPA Method 21 leak detection. Therefore,
these revisions are consistent with the Oil and Gas CTG and the CAA.

While the revisions to Sections XII. and XVIII. to include provisions in Colorado’s Ozone
SIP are limited to the DMNFR, the Commission acknowledges the importance of
reducing hydrocarbon emissions from the oil and gas sector (i.e., upstream, midstream,
and transmission) statewide. Therefore, without prescribing any particular outcome, the
Commission directs the Division to initiate and lead a stakeholder process over the
2018-2019 timeframe to evaluate potential areas for cost-effective hydrocarbon
emission reductions. Stakeholders will nominate topics for evaluation, which may
include, but are not limited to, the frequency of LDAR inspections, transmission
segment compressor emissions, natural gas-driven and zero emission pneumatic
controllers outside the DMNFR (to be informed by the pneumatic study and inspection
program), and potential expansion of the requirements adopted in the DMNFR as part
of this rulemaking. The Division will brief the Commission on the stakeholder process in
January 2019 and present recommendations for any new proposals for emission
reductions by no later than January 2020. The Commission intends that one
representative of industry, local government, and the environmental community each
will have the opportunity to speak during the briefings.

Applicability of Section XII. (Section XII.A.)

The Commission is clarifying the applicability of Section XII. Historically, Section XII. has
applied to operations that involve the collection, storage, or handling of condensate in
the DMNFR. While this remains the case, the requirements in Section XII.J. for
compressors, Section XII.K. for pneumatic pumps, and Section XII.L. for components at
well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations also apply to those
facilities and equipment collecting, storing, or handling other hydrocarbon liquids.




                                                                                         454
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Section XII.A.5. further provides that subject well production facilities are those with
uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to one ton per year (“tpy”).
This applicability threshold addresses the Oil and Gas CTG’s recommended barrels of
oil equivalent (“BOE”) exemption. EPA crafted the BOE exemption believing that well
production facilities with an average production less than 15 BOE per well per day were
inherently low emitting facilities. EPA later determined that information submitted on the
draft CTG and proposed NSPS OOOOa did not support this conclusion. Therefore, in
addition to the complications concerning tracking BOE, the Commission chose to rely
upon an uncontrolled actual VOC tpy threshold for well production facility applicability.
The use of a tpy threshold is also consistent with Colorado’s current air pollutant
reporting and permitting thresholds. Further, Section XII.A. historically exempted from
the requirements of Section XII. those operations reflecting a total of less than 30 tons-
per-year of actual uncontrolled emissions of VOCs in the DMNFR area. That exemption
continues to apply to Sections XII.B. through XII.I., but is not extended to Sections
XII.J., XII.K., and XII.L.

Definitions (Sections XII.B. and XVII.A.)

The Commission is adopting definitions into Section XII.B., most of which are consistent
with the existing definitions of Section XVII. In the definition of “component”, the
Commission is clarifying both in Section XII.B. and in Section XVII.A., that thief hatches
and other openings on storage tanks are included in the definition as a pressure relief
device. This revision clarifies that leaks can occur from the thief hatch (e.g., faulty or
dirty seals) that are different than vented emissions under the standard in Section
XVII.C.2.a., and that such leaks are subject to the LDAR program. The Commission
anticipates that emissions from storage tanks identified as leaks requiring repair through
the LDAR inspections under Sections XII.L. or XVIII.F. will be recorded and reported as
leaks starting in 2018 for the 2019 annual report. The Commission is adding a definition
of “custody transfer” that applies to custody transfers of both natural gas and oil
products. The Commission is also adding definitions for “natural gas driven diaphragm
pump” and “natural gas processing plant” that correspond to federal definitions.

Operate without venting clarification (Section XVII.C.2.a.)



                                                                                             455
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission is providing additional detail concerning provisions adopted in 2014
that established an “operate without venting” standard for storage tanks. In response to
industry concern that Section XVII. does not sufficiently define “venting” or delineate
“venting” from “leaking,” the Commission is adopting provisions clarifying which
emissions from storage tanks are considered “venting”. Section XVII.F. defines “leaking”
in terms of infra-red camera or EPA Method 21 inspections of components. While
storage tanks may also have leaks, as the Commission recognizes by including thief
hatches or other openings on storage tanks in the definition of component, the
Commission now further clarifies the “venting” standard by specifying that “venting” is
emissions that are primarily the result of over-pressurization or that are from an open or
visibly unseated pressure relief device (e.g., thief hatch). The Commission intends that
“visibly unseated” means visible from the outside of the pressure relief device and does
not require an owner or operator to open a pressure relief device to determine if the seal
is proper. The Commission also authorizes the Division to request a demonstration from
the owner or operator that “venting” emissions observed by the Division were not
primarily the result of over-pressurization. The Commission intends that such
demonstration request allow an owner or operator to provide case specific information
or other sufficient details that the design, operation, and maintenance of the facility is
adequate to prevent over-pressurization. In clarifying a difference between “leaking” and
“venting,” the Commission does not prohibit component leaks, per se, so long as leaks
are repaired under the applicable repair time frames but does continue to prohibit
“venting” from storage tanks.

Ozone season clarification (Sections XII.F.4. and XII.H.6.)

In October 2015, the EPA finalized a revision to the ozone NAAQS. (80 Fed. Reg.
65292 (Oct. 26, 2015)). In publishing its final rule, the EPA revised the length of
Colorado’s ozone season. Colorado’s ozone season is now year-round, rather than the
months of May through September. The Commission therefore revised references to
“ozone season” in Sections XII.F.4. and XII.H.6. to reflect that the requirements now
apply during the months of May to September. There are no substantive changes to the
underlying requirements resulting from this revision.



                                                                                          456
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants (Section XII.G.)

The Commission is updating the LDAR program applicable to equipment leaks at
natural gas processing plants in the DMNFR by requiring owners or operators to comply
with 40 C.F.R. Part 60 (NSPS), Subparts OOOO or OOOOa instead of complying with
NSPS Subpart KKK, which is an earlier NSPS and less stringent. Subpart KKK requires
sources to implement a NSPS Subpart VV level LDAR program, while Subpart OOOO
requires sources to implement a NSPS Subpart VVa level LDAR program. A Subpart
VVa level LDAR program is recommended for equipment at natural gas processing
plants in the Oil and Gas CTG. The Commission determined that a 2019
implementation date would provide owners and operators of existing natural gas
processing plants a reasonable period of time to establish and obtain the necessary
resources to transition from Subpart KKK to Subpart OOOO LDAR requirements.

Compressors (Section XII.J.)

The Commission is adopting the centrifugal and reciprocating compressor provisions
from existing Section XVII.B.3. into new Section XII.J. in order to include the
requirements in Colorado’s Ozone SIP. The Commission is expanding the existing
reciprocating compressor requirements to reciprocating compressors located at natural
gas processing plants to address recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG. Owners or
operators of existing reciprocating compressors at natural gas processing plants must
begin monitoring the reciprocating compressor hours of operation on January 1, 2018,
starting at zero, in relation to the rod packing replacement requirement, conduct the first
rod packing replacement prior to January 1, 2021, or route emissions to a process
beginning May 1, 2018.

The Commission intends to allow owners or operators the option to reduce VOC
emissions by routing centrifugal compressor emissions to a process or control and
reciprocating compressor emissions to a process, consistent with the recommendations
in the Oil and Gas CTG. With respect to centrifugal compressors, the Oil and Gas CTG
and related federal requirements reveal that “process” generally refers to routing
emissions via a closed vent system to any enclosed portion of a process unit (e.g.,
compressor or fuel gas system) where the emissions are predominantly recycled,


                                                                                       457
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in the
process, transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated
materials, incorporated into a product, or recovered. Similarly, with respect to
reciprocating compressors, routing to a process includes using a rod packing emissions
collection system that operates under negative pressure and meets cover and closed
vent system requirements. The negative pressure requirement ensures that all
emissions are conveyed to the process and avoids inducing back pressure on the rod
packing and resultant safety concerns. The Commission recognizes that there may a
distinction between air pollution control equipment and process equipment (see e.g.,
U.S. EPA Letter to Timothy J. Mohin RE: Criteria for Determining Whether Equipment is
Air Pollution Control Equipment or Process Equipment (Nov. 27, 1995)). For example,
as noted in the Oil and Gas CTG, vapor recovery units and flow lines that “route
emissions to a process” may be considered part of the process and not a control device,
however, a related cover and closed vent system, if present, are still subject to
applicable requirements. Further, components (as defined in these rules) located within
a process or that are part of process equipment are subject to the Section XII.L. LDAR
requirements. The Commission intends that owners or operators will follow similar
procedures when complying with centrifugal and reciprocating compressor requirements
in Section XII.J.

The Commission has adopted an inspection program for compressors, but also intends
to provide owners or operators with the alternative of complying with other
requirements, including the LDAR program adopted into Section XII.L. While the
requirements of the LDAR program would replace the annual visual inspections and
EPA Method 21 inspections of the cover and closed vent systems for defects and leaks,
owners or operators would still need to conduct monthly inspections of their combustion
devices. Compliance with the LDAR program is not limited to the inspection frequency
and methods specified therein; owners or operators will also need to maintain records of
the inspections and submit reports to the Division, consistent with the requirements of
the LDAR program. The Commission has specified an inspection and repair schedule
for compressors, but has recognized that there may be reasons that a system is unsafe
or difficult to inspect, or where a repair may not be feasible. Owners or operators will


                                                                                           458
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

need to maintain records of each cover or closed vent system that is unsafe or difficult
to inspect and schedule for inspection when circumstances allow. Similarly, when a
repair is infeasible, insofar as it would require a shutdown of the equipment, repair can
be delayed until the next scheduled shutdown but must be completed within two years
after discovery. The Commission expects owners or operators to attempt to confirm
repair before starting up operation after shutdown, to the extent practicable. The
Commission also expects that if the repair attempt can be made during an unplanned
shutdown, it will be.

The Commission adopts the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements to ensure and
demonstrate compliance with the control requirements. As an alternative to complying
with the control, monitoring, and recordkeeping requirements in Section XII.J., owners
or operators may instead comply with centrifugal or reciprocating compressor control,
monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in a NSPS, including Subparts
OOOO, OOOOa, or future standards.

Natural gas driven diaphragm pumps (Section XII.K.)

The Oil and Gas CTG contains recommendations for RACT for natural gas-driven
diaphragm pumps. The Commission has not previously adopted regulations specifically
directed at this type of equipment, and does so in Section XII.K.

The Oil and Gas CTG recommends that the pumps located at a natural gas processing
plant have zero VOC emissions. The Oil and Gas CTG also recommends that owners or
operators of pumps located at well sites route VOC emissions from the pneumatic pump
to an onsite control device or process, unless the pneumatic pump operates on fewer
than 90 days or an engineering assessment shows that routing the pneumatic pump
emissions to a control device or process is technically infeasible. The assessment of
technical feasibility may include safety considerations, distance from the control device,
pressure losses and differentials in the closed vent system, gas pressure, and the
capacity of the control device, among other things. The Commission acknowledges that
RACT, by EPA definition, includes both technological and economic feasibility elements.
The Commission determined that the cost of routing pneumatic pump emissions to an
existing control device or process is reasonable and is, therefore, only providing an


                                                                                        459
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

exemption from the emission control requirement based on technical infeasibility.
However, the Commission does not intend to limit future RACT determinations due to
limiting the pneumatic pump infeasibility analysis to technical ability. In addition, the 90-
day exemption for pumps was included to address intermittently used or portable
pumps. Consistent with the Oil and Gas CTG, the Commission intends that if a pump
operates on any period of a calendar day, that day would be included in the calculation
for applicability of the 90-day exemption.

The Commission does not expect an owner or operator to install new equipment
specifically to route pneumatic pump emissions to a control or process but intends that
when an owner or operator subsequently otherwise installs a control device or it
becomes technically feasible to route pump emissions to a process, then the owner or
operator will capture the emissions from the pneumatic pump and route the emissions
to the newly installed control device or feasible process. Routing to a control or process
generally refers to routing the emissions through a closed vent system to a vapor
recovery unit, combustion device, or enclosed portion of a process where emissions are
recycled and/or consumed.

The Commission has applied the same flexibility for pneumatic pumps as it has for
compressors; owners or operators may comply with the inspection requirements in
Section XII.K. or may follow the LDAR program in Section XII.L. Also similar to
compressors, owners or operators may delay subsequent repair attempts of equipment
where, during a scheduled shutdown, the owner or operator unsuccessfully repaired the
leak or equipment requiring repair so long as repair is completed within two years after
discovery. As with compressors, the Commission expects owners or operators to
attempt to confirm repair before starting up operation after a shutdown and make an
attempt to repair during unscheduled shutdowns, to the extent practicable.

As an alternative to complying with the control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
requirements in Section XII.K., owners or operators may instead comply with pneumatic
pump emission control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in a
NSPS, including Subparts OOOO, OOOOa, or future standards.




                                                                                          460
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Fugitive emissions at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations
(Section XII.L.)

The Oil and Gas CTG recommends LDAR programs at well sites (i.e., well production
facilities) and gathering and boosting stations (i.e., natural gas compressor stations),
including inspection frequencies, recordkeeping, and reporting. The Commission
established Colorado’s well production facility and natural gas compressor station LDAR
program in 2014 in Section XVII.F., which is not part of the Ozone SIP. In creating a
LDAR program in the Ozone SIP, the Commission intends to maintain as much of the
current program as feasible. Where the Commission adopted revisions in Section XII.L.
that differ from language currently found in the State Only LDAR program, the
Commission in most cases made the same or similar revisions to the corresponding
provisions in Section XVII.F.

Inspection, repair, and remonitoring

The Oil and Gas CTG recommends LDAR inspections at a minimum quarterly
frequency for gathering and boosting stations and a minimum semi-annual frequency for
well sites. The Commission is adopting inspection frequencies to address those
recommendations in Section XII.L. The Commission is not modifying the LDAR
schedules in Section XVII.F. The Commission intends that for those sources required by
Section XVII.F. to conduct more frequent LDAR monitoring than specified in Section
XII.L., the owner or operator may comply with Sections XII L.1. and XII.L.2. by
complying with Sections XVII.F.3. and XVII.F.4. As with the LDAR inspection frequency
in Section XVII.F., the Commission expects that owners or operators will ensure that
inspections are appropriately spaced on the frequency schedules (e.g., quarterly
inspections will occur every three months but not, for example, on March 31 and April
1).

The Oil and Gas CTG does not recommend a semi-annual LDAR inspection frequency
at well sites with a gas to oil ratio less than 300 and which produce, on average, less
than or equal to 15 BOE per well per day. The Commission recognizes that a
component of RACT is balancing the emission reductions with the cost of the controls,
and agrees that there should be a floor below which the recommended minimum


                                                                                           461
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

frequency does not apply. The Commission determined a threshold of one tpy VOC
emissions addresses this balance and the recommendation in the Oil and Gas CTG.
Adopting an emissions based threshold maintains consistency with the current
Regulation Number 7 applicability program and promotes the clarity and effectiveness
of the regulation.

The Commission determined that annual LDAR inspections of well production facilities
with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to one tpy and equal to or
less than six tpy and semi-annual LDAR inspections of well production facilities with
uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than six tpy address the Oil and Gas CTG’s
recommendations.

The Commission understands that the revised inspection frequencies will result in a
significant number of new inspections. However, annual LDAR inspections of well
production facilities with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to
one tpy and equal to or less than six tpy will be less burdensome than semi-annual
inspections. The Commission has determined that the emission reductions achieved by
this program will improve the ability of the DMNFR area to attain the ozone standard
and are cost-effective. While the rule specifies that the new inspection frequencies
begin to apply as of June 30, 2018, the rule does not require that the first periodic
inspection be completed by June 30, 2018. The Commission also does not require that
monitoring be conducted in advance of this date; however, inspections done after
January 1, 2018, that are in addition to current required LDAR monitoring frequencies
may count towards the first annual or semi-annual inspection, or inspections done in the
previous quarter at natural gas compressor stations. The Commission encourages
owners or operators to conduct inspections prior to the 2018 summer ozone months to
more effectively take advantage of the resulting emission reductions.

To ensure that the Ozone SIP LDAR program in Section XII.L. works with the existing
State Only LDAR program in Section XVII.F., the Commission has maintained the same
thresholds for identifying leaks that require repair. While the Oil and Gas CTG employs
a methane concentration threshold when detected with EPA Method 21, Colorado’s
LDAR program uses a hydrocarbon concentration threshold. The Commission has also



                                                                                        462
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

revised Section II. to clarify that Section XII.L. includes the use of hydrocarbons as an
indicator of VOC emission reductions.

Concerning the use of non-quantitative instrument monitoring methods, the Commission
adopted a quality assurance requirement that owners or operators maintain and operate
such devices according to manufacturer recommendations. This requirement
corresponds to recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG concerning the maintenance
and operation of OGI uses to detect fugitive emission components. The Commission
intends for the Division to work with owners or operator to address any concerns that
arise from manufacturer specifications for the maintenance of non-quantitative
instrument monitoring methods.

Consistent with the current LDAR program in Section XVII.F., the Commission adopted
a requirement to make a first attempt to repair an identified leak within five working (i.e.,
business) days of discovery. In both Section XII.L. and in Section XVII.F., the
Commission has included a requirement that repairs be completed within 30 days
unless one of the existing justifications for delay of repair applies. As with compressors
and pneumatic pumps, owners or operators may delay subsequent repair attempts of
equipment where, during a scheduled shutdown, the owner or operator unsuccessfully
repaired the leak requiring repair so long as repair is completed within two years of
discovery. The Commission has also maintained the flexibility of the State Only LDAR
program in the SIP by giving owners or operators detecting leaks with a non-quantitative
method (e.g., IR camera) the ability to quantify the leaks within five working days. If the
quantification shows that the leak must be repaired under Section XII.L.5., the deadline
to repair runs from the date of discovery, not from the date of quantification.

As it did for Section XVII.F.7.c. in 2014, the Commission has also memorialized its
intent, in Section XII.L.5.c., that operators not be subject to enforcement for leaks so
long as operators are complying with the LDAR program requirements. However, as it
also explained in 2014, the Commission does not intend to relieve owners or operators
of the obligation to comply with the general requirements of Section XII.C. For example,
closing an open thief hatch within five days of an LDAR inspection does not shield an




                                                                                           463
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

owner or operator from a possible violation of the requirement to minimize emissions to
the maximum extent practicable.

Similarly, the Commission does not intend to relieve owners or operators of the
obligation, on a State Only basis, to comply with the requirements of Section XVII.,
including the requirements in Sections XVII.B. and XVII.C.2. to minimize leakage to the
extent reasonably practicable and operate without venting, respectively. However, the
Commission does not intend these State Only provisions be enforceable under the
Ozone SIP.

Recordkeeping and reporting

The Commission has determined that the current requirements did not adequately
incentivize owners or operators to make all reasonable good faith efforts to obtain parts
necessary to complete repairs. As a result, some leaks continued on delay of repair lists
for an unreasonable length of time. Therefore, the Commission has determined that a
review and record of such delays by a representative of the owner or operator is
necessary for those occasions where unavailable parts have resulted in a delay of
repair beyond 30 days.

The Commission expanded the recordkeeping for repair dates to include records of the
type of repair method applied. The Commission determined this recordkeeping element
aligns with recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG and will more accurately inform
repair activities. The Commission intends for the Division to work with owners and
operators to establish a generally standardized set of different types of repair to ensure
that owners and operators are consistently recording the information required.

The Commission also expanded the requirements for the annual LDAR report to ensure
that the data submitted to the Division more accurately represents and summarizes the
activities and effectiveness of the LDAR program. The Commission intends that the
LDAR reports include the number of inspections, leaks requiring repair, leaking
component type, and monitoring method by which the leaks were found – broken out by
facility type (i.e., inspection frequency tier of well production facility or natural gas
compressor station).




                                                                                            464
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission intends that both the SIP and State Only LDAR reporting requirement
can be satisfied by one report. The Commission expects that the first annual report
containing the information required by these revisions will be submitted by May 31,
2019 (i.e., no changes are expected to current requirements for the May 31, 2018,
annual report representing leak detection and repair activities conducted during 2017).

Alternative approved instrument monitoring method (“AIMM”)




                                                                                      465
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has adopted a process for the review and approval of alternative
instrument monitoring methods. The CAA prohibits a state from modifying SIP
requirements except through specified CAA processes. EPA interprets this CAA
provision to allow EPA approval of SIP provisions that include state authority to approve
alternative requirements when the SIP provisions are sufficiently specific, provide for
sufficient public process, and are adequately bounded such that EPA can determine,
when approving the SIP provision, how the provision will actually be applied and
whether there are adverse impacts. (State Implementation Plans: Response to Petition
for Rulemaking; Restatement and Update of EPA’s SSM Policy Applicable to SIPs;
Findings of Substantial Inadequacy; and SIP Calls to Amend Provisions Applying to
Excess Emissions During Periods of Startup, Shutdown and Malfunction, 80 Fed. Reg.
33917-33918, 33927 (June 12, 2015)) Therefore, the Commission includes an
application and review process in the SIP for the potential approval of instrument
monitoring methods as alternatives to an infra-red camera or EPA’s Method 21. The
approval may also include modified recordkeeping and reporting requirements based on
the capabilities of the potential alternative instrument monitoring method. This proposed
process does not alter the stringency of Colorado’s well production facility and natural
gas compressor station LDAR program because an alternative AIMM must be capable
of reducing emissions through the detection and repair of leaks comparable to the leaks
detected and repaired as specified in the SIP to be potentially approvable.

The Commission received comments from stakeholders requesting that the
Commission explicitly provide for the ability to employ certain alternatives not equipped
with the leak detection capabilities of infra-red cameras or Method 21. These
stakeholders emphasized that monitoring technologies are evolving rapidly and new
technologies and monitoring programs are being developed that, when used on their
own or in conjunction with other methods, may provide the same or better leak detection
and repair results, at potentially lower costs. The process outlined in Section XII.L.8.
requires an applicant to demonstrate that the proposed alternative monitoring achieves
emission reductions that are at least as effective as the leak detection and repair
program in Section XII.L. The Commission intends that the rule be flexible enough to
allow the Division to consider such alternative monitoring methods or programs, as long


                                                                                           466
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

as the applicant can demonstrate that the proposed method or program achieves
emission reductions that are as effective as other approved technologies or methods. To
make this demonstration, an applicant may consider demonstrating that a program of
alternative inspection frequencies, pollutants detected, or leak thresholds for repair
achieves emission reductions comparable to the inspection frequencies and leaks
requiring repair thresholds in Section XII.L., thus the consideration of an alternative leak
detection program. The Commission recognizes that current, established approaches or
methodologies to evaluate the performance of alternative monitoring technologies and
programs as compared to baseline monitoring technologies (infra-red camera, EPA
Method 21) do not yet exist. However, such methodologies are being developed.

For example, the Interstate Technology and Regulatory Council (ITRC), in which
Colorado participates, is developing, but has not yet published, a guidance document to
establish, if possible, a consensus for evaluating and comparing the effectiveness of
leak detection technologies. While the criteria for evaluating the effectiveness of an
alternative program as compared to the base program is being developed, alternative
monitoring method applicants may submit an application for approval of an alternative
monitoring method but must be prepared to present a robust and complete evaluation of
the technology or program’s performance that allows for comparison to the base
technologies in the SIP. It is possible the Division may delay consideration and final
determination regarding an alternative monitoring method or program application until
established comparison criteria are developed or submitted. Taking into account the
deliberations of the ITRC process, the Commission expects that the Division will
consider complete applications in a timely manner.

The Commission also received comments from stakeholders requesting that the
Commission clarify EPA’s participation regarding potential alternative monitoring
methods. As discussed, the Commission believes that the process to review and
potentially approve alternative monitoring methods is sufficiently constrained such that
EPA, when approving the process, can be assured as to what emission reductions any
such alternative monitoring will achieve in the context of the Section XII.L. LDAR
program. However, the Commission also recognizes EPA’s technical knowledge and is
requiring the Division to continue to engage with EPA concerning alternative monitoring


                                                                                         467
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

methods. Specifically, the Division must provide complete applications to EPA early in
the review process, which has previously ranged from three to nine months. The
Division must also provide EPA six (6) months after approval of an alternative for further
EPA review. The Commission believes this process provides sufficient time for
meaningful engagement with EPA.

Clarifications

The Commission is clarifying, both in Section XII.L. and Section XVII.F., that all detected
emissions are leaks, but that only those leaks above specified thresholds require repair.
The Commission did not intend that leaks falling below the specified thresholds would
not be considered “leaks,” only that those leaks did not require repair in accordance with
the prescribed schedules. The Commission has further clarified that only records of
leaks requiring repair need to be maintained. Regulation Number 7 already requires that
owners or operators remonitor repaired leaks with an AIMM. AIMM includes EPA
Method 21, which includes the soapy water method, and the Commission further
clarifies that an owner or operator may use the soapy water method in EPA Method 21
to remonitor a repaired leak. Some stakeholders asked the Commission to “clarify” that
the LDAR repair, remonitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements applied only
to those leaks discovered by the owner or operator, and not those discovered by the
Division. The Commission believes that would not be a clarification, but a change to the
current program, and does not make that requested revision at this time. Therefore, the
repair, remonitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements continue to apply to
leaks discovered by the Division.

Pneumatic controllers (Section XVIII.)

The Commission is adopting both Ozone SIP and State Only revisions to Section XVIII.
The Commission added definitions of continuous bleed and intermittent pneumatic
controller. The Commission also added “continuous bleed” to several provisions
throughout Sections XVIII.C. through XVIII.E. to clarify that the provisions adopted in
2014 primarily applied to continuous bleed pneumatic controllers (which emit
continuously) as opposed to intermittent pneumatic controllers (which emit only when
actuating).


                                                                                          468
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Pneumatic controllers at or upstream of natural gas processing plants

Section XVIII. already requires that owners or operators install low-bleed pneumatic
controllers at or upstream of natural gas processing plants, unless a high-bleed
pneumatic controller is required for safety or process purposes. This requirement is
consistent with the Oil and Gas CTG and the Commission intends that these provisions
be included in Colorado’s Ozone SIP.

The Commission adopts additional requirements, consistent with the Oil and Gas CTG,
related to pneumatic controllers at natural gas processing plants. The Commission is
requiring that all continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers at a natural
gas processing plant have a bleed rate of zero (i.e., no VOC emissions), unless a
pneumatic controller with a bleed rate greater than zero is necessary due to safety and
process reasons. To satisfy this requirement, owners or operators of natural gas
processing plants could, for example, drive pneumatic controllers with instrument air,
use mechanical or electrically powered pneumatic controllers, or use self-contained
pneumatic controllers that release natural gas to a downstream pipeline instead of to
the atmosphere. The requirements to submit a justification for a pneumatic controller
exceeding the emission standard to the Division, as well as the requirements for tagging
and records, duplicate and are intended to be consistent with existing requirements
related to high-bleed pneumatic controllers.

The requirement to maintain pneumatic controllers exceeding the applicable emission
standard are also duplicated from the existing high-bleed maintenance requirement, but
revised to include the suggested maintenance actions specifically in the applicable
provisions, instead of referring to an “enhanced maintenance” definition. The
Commission revised the maintenance requirement in this manner to separate the
actions taken to maintain a pneumatic controller exceeding the applicable emission
standard from the, potentially very similar, actions taken to return a pneumatic controller
to proper operation. For example, the owner or operator of a high-bleed pneumatic
controller or a pneumatic controller with a bleed rate greater than zero at a natural gas
processing plant is required to perform specified maintenance on the pneumatic
controller regardless of whether or not the pneumatic controller is determined to be



                                                                                        469
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

properly operating. In contrast, the owner or operator of a pneumatic controller
inspected under Section XVIII.F. must conduct enhanced response to return that
pneumatic controller to proper operation.

Additionally, the Commission is requiring owners or operators to maintain records
demonstrating their continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers meet the
applicable low-bleed or bleed rate of zero standards. These records are also intended to
inform the extent to which continuous bleed pneumatic controllers are used in the
DMNFR. The Commission understands that the number of continuous bleed, natural
gas-driven pneumatic controllers in use by an operator can change frequently, and is
not requiring a running log or count of each individual pneumatic controller. The
Commission adopted these recordkeeping requirements with the expectation that
owners or operators can keep records including, but not limited to, site-specific
documentation of continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers such as
manufacturer specifications, engineering calculations, field test data, or documentation
of a company’s continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controller purchase and
installation program ensuring that any such pneumatic controller meets the applicable
bleed rate standard.

Clarification

The Commission is also clarifying the intent behind provisions adopted in 2014
regarding the use of pneumatic controllers powered by instrument air (as opposed to
natural gas) when grid power is being used. In 2014, the Commission intended that
when a pneumatic controller was proposed for installation, owners or operators would
power the pneumatic controller via electrical power instead of natural gas when
electrical grid power was being used on-site. The provisions adopted in 2014 allowed
owners or operators to install a pneumatic controller with VOC emissions equal to or
less than a low-bleed pneumatic controller in some situations. The Commission has
learned that some owners or operators interpret the rule as providing the option of
installing either no-bleed or low-bleed pneumatic controllers in all situations.

Even though the Commission believes its intent was clear, the Commission recognizes
that the rule could fairly be described as ambiguous and that there is a good faith legal


                                                                                       470
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

argument for the alternative interpretation. The Commission is revising the rule to clarify
that where electric grid power is being used on site and it is technically and
economically feasible to install no-bleed pneumatic controllers, any newly installed
pneumatic controllers must be no-bleed. Where the owner or operator determines it is
not technically and economically feasible to install a no-bleed pneumatic controller, the
owner or operator may install a low-bleed or intermittent pneumatic controller.

The Commission recognizes that the installation of an electrically-powered controller
may have been feasible in 2014, but may not be feasible to retrofit at this time. The
Commission nonetheless encourages owners or operators statewide who, based on a
misreading of the regulation, did not install a no-bleed pneumatic controller to evaluate
whether retrofitting controllers – with no-bleed or self-contained pneumatic controllers –
at this time is technically and economically feasible. The Commission also encourages
owners and operators statewide to install, or retrofit with, no-bleed or self-contained
pneumatic controllers at locations across the state, even where on site electrical grid
power is not available to the extent there is no significant air quality disbenefit in doing
so.

Natural gas driven pneumatic controller inspection and enhanced response (State Only)

Following the 2014 rulemaking, the Commission requested that the Division continue its
investigation into potential regulations for intermittent pneumatic controllers. During the
recent 2016 ozone rulemaking, stakeholders again asked the Commission to address
intermittent pneumatic controllers. In response, the Commission again directed the
Division to evaluate potential emission reduction measures for intermittent pneumatic
controllers.

The Commission is adopting an inspection and enhanced response (e.g., maintenance)
program for natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers. While the Oil and Gas CTG notes
the value of pneumatic controller inspection and maintenance, the Oil and Gas CTG
does not specify a pneumatic controller inspection and maintenance as presumptive
RACT. Therefore, while the Commission determined that these revisions are technically
and economically feasible, the revisions are proposed as State Only in the DMNFR and
are not made part of the Ozone SIP at this time. Natural gas-driven pneumatic


                                                                                          471
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

controllers include continuous bleed, intermittent, and self-contained pneumatic
controllers. Recent studies of pneumatic controllers have found that malfunctioning
devices contribute a significant amount of hydrocarbon emissions to the atmosphere.

The Oil and Gas CTG suggests that maintenance of pneumatic controllers, including
cleaning and tuning, can eliminate excess emissions from the devices. While the Oil
and Gas CTG’s recommended RACT (low-bleed or zero emissions) applies to
continuous bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers, the discussion concerning
enhanced maintenance of pneumatic controllers builds on earlier EPA discussions, such
as EPA’s 2014 Pneumatic Controller White Paper, and is not limited to continuous bleed
pneumatic controllers. The Commission recognizes that continuous bleed and
intermittent pneumatic controllers are designed to have emissions, however these
pneumatic controllers can also have excess emissions when not operating properly. As
a result, the Commission believes that a pneumatic controller inspection and response
program will reduce the excess emissions from such pneumatic controllers.

The Commission intends to apply the same find and fix approach used in the LDAR
requirements in Sections XII.L. and XVII.F. to all natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers in the DMNFR. The Commission is requiring that natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations in
the DMNFR be inspected periodically to determine whether the pneumatic controller is
operating properly, in contrast to quantitatively comparing pneumatic controller
emissions to a regulatory threshold. The Commission is requiring that owners or
operators inspect pneumatic controllers at well production facilities annually, semi-
annually, quarterly, or monthly, depending on the well production facility VOC emissions,
and at natural gas compressor stations quarterly or monthly, depending on the natural
gas compressor station fugitive emissions.

The Commission expects that owners or operators will inspect their pneumatic
controllers during the same LDAR inspections, and using the same AIMM, conducted
for compliance with Sections XII.L. or XVII.F. The pneumatic controller inspection and
enhanced response process is intended to be a multi-step process. First, the owner or
operator must inspect all natural gas-driven pneumatic controller using AIMM to screen



                                                                                        472
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

for detectable emissions. This first step allows owners or operators to narrow potential
response efforts to only those pneumatic controllers with detected emissions. Second,
the owner or operator must determine whether the pneumatic controllers with detected
emissions are operating properly. Use of an AIMM is not required during this second
step; the Commission does not at this time intend to mandate to owners or operators
how to determine if their pneumatic controllers are operating properly. During this
second step, if an owner or operator determines that the pneumatic controller is
operating properly, no further action is necessary. Third, where an owner or operator
determines the pneumatic controller is not operating properly, the owner or operator
must take actions to return an improperly operating pneumatic controller to proper
operation. Fourth, general recordkeeping and reporting requirements apply broadly to
the number of facilities inspected and number of inspections. More detailed
recordkeeping and reporting is required for those pneumatic controllers that the owner
or operator determined not to be operating properly.

Similar to the LDAR records, owners or operators must keep records of the date the
pneumatic controller was returned to proper operation and a description of the types of
actions taken. As with well production facility and natural gas compressor station LDAR
records, the Commission intends for the Division to work with owners and operators to
establish a generally standardized set of different types of response actions to ensure
that owners and operators are consistently recording the information required. The
Commission expects that owners or operators will include the pneumatic controller
information as State Only information in their LDAR annual reports. In returning a
pneumatic controller to proper operation, the Commission relies upon the previously
defined term, now enhanced response, found in Section XVIII.B. related to maintaining
high-bleed pneumatic controllers. The Commission has expanded this definition to
guide responsive activities concerning all natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers.
Recognizing that the function and potential maintenance or repair of pneumatic
controllers can be variable, owners or operators are not restricted to using an AIMM to
determine proper operation or verify the return to proper operation. The Commission
has adopted a “reassessment” provision for this inspection and enhanced response
program following a Division led study of pneumatic controller emission reduction


                                                                                        473
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

options, including the rate, type, application, and causes of pneumatic controllers found
operating improperly; inspection and repair techniques and costs; available preventative
maintenance methods; appropriateness of the definitions of enhanced response,
intermittent pneumatic controller, no-bleed pneumatic controller, self-contained
pneumatic controller, and pneumatic controller; and other related information. The
Commission also recognizes that owners and operators may currently have limited
information on “good engineering and maintenance practices” for pneumatic controllers
and intends that more information on these practices will be gathered during the
pneumatic study and implementation of Section XVIII.F. to inform the reassessment of
the inspection and enhanced response program. The data collection effort will include
data from a representative cross-section of well production facilities and natural gas
compressor stations in the DMNFR.

In accordance with industry’s proposal, a task force will be convened by January 30,
2018, consisting of representatives from industry, the Division, local governments,
environmental groups, and other interested parties. Data collection will begin no later
than by May 1, 2018. The task force will brief the Commission annually and make any
recommendations on its findings in a report to the Commission, due May 1, 2020. The
Commission intends that the Division, industry, local government, and environmental
group task force participants each have the opportunity to contribute to the final report
and provide one representative to speak during the briefings to the Commission. The
Commission intends that this information be used to reassess the natural gas-driven
pneumatic controller requirements of Section XVIII.F. Section XVIII.F. will remain in
effect until rescinded, superseded, or revised. The Commission recognizes that there is
much to learn about the inspection and maintenance of natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers, which highlights the need for the reassessment of Section XVIII.F. as well as
enforcement discretion. The Commission intends that while the task force is actively
working on data collection and the 2020 report to the Commission, the determination of
whether a pneumatic controller is operating properly will be made by the owner or
operator. Any information gathered through the task force, including on preventative,
good engineering, and maintenance practices, will be used to reassess Section XVIII.F.
and will not be used for enforcement purpose through 2020.


                                                                                         474
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s Ozone SIP to address the ozone Moderate
nonattainment area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the
provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour
ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
The Commission carefully considered what provisions to include in Colorado’s Ozone
SIP, especially given Colorado’s pre-existing emission control requirements that address
most of the same sources addressed by the Oil and Gas CTG, yet do so differently.
Some of these pre-existing requirements were adopted into Colorado’s SIP and some
will remain as State Only requirements. In determining what existing provisions would
be included in Colorado’s Ozone SIP, the Commission considered: 1) whether or not
Colorado had existing emission control measures for the same sources covered by the
Oil and Gas CTG; 2) whether these existing requirements were already adopted for
inclusion in the Ozone SIP; and 3) the degree of emissions reductions achieved by any
existing Colorado emission control measures in comparison to the Oil and Gas CTG.

In resolving differences between existing Colorado provisions and the Oil and Gas CTG,
preference was given to existing Colorado provisions, especially those already
incorporated into Colorado’s Ozone SIP and Colorado’s existing regulatory framework.
For example, the Commission relied upon existing storage tank requirements already
adopted into Colorado’s Ozone SIP. In the case of well production facility LDAR, the
Commission adopted a tpy applicability threshold in place of the Oil and Gas CTG’s
BOE threshold, which applies to more sources than the Oil and Gas CTG, yet adopted a
less frequent inspection frequency into the Ozone SIP for the smaller facilities than the
Oil and Gas CTG.

In determining whether or not any additional requirements would be relied upon in
establishing RACT in Colorado’s Ozone SIP for the oil and gas sector, the Commission
determined whether or not the emission control measures were necessary for the ozone
attainment demonstration. In the case of LDAR for pneumatic controllers at well
production facilities and natural gas compressor stations, the Commission adopted
emission control measures as State Only measures given the need to obtain emission



                                                                                       475
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

reductions as well as more information on this source type. These examples illustrate
the Commission’s careful consideration of what provisions to include in Colorado’s
Ozone SIP. The CAA requires that Colorado’s Ozone SIP include RACT for all sources
covered by a CTG, such as the emission sources addressed in the Oil and Gas CTG.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to ensure
attainment with the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS and satisfy Colorado’s Moderate
nonattainment area obligations, including those related to RACT. These revisions do not
exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment
area SIPs.

The Commission is also revising certain State Only regulations to reduce emissions and
promote attainment of current federal ozone standards. Specifically, the Commission is
adopting requirements related to the inspection of natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers at oil and gas facilities. As discussed, malfunctioning pneumatic controllers
can result in significant hydrocarbon emissions. The DMNFR ozone nonattainment area
is currently classified as a Moderate nonattainment area under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.
The deadline for the DMNFR to attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS is July 2, 2018. If the
DMNFR does not attain the standard or does not receive an extension, EPA may
reclassify the DMNFR as a Serious nonattainment area under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.
In addition, the Commission approved a designation recommendation for the DMNFR
under the 2015 ozone NAAQS in September 2016. While EPA has not yet acted on this
recommendation, the Commission expects the DMNFR will be designated as
nonattainment under the 2015 ozone NAAQS and is taking action to promote attainment
of the more stringent standard. Given both the potential for a reclassification to Serious
under the 2008 ozone NAAQS and the need to reduce ozone to meet the more
stringent 2015 ozone NAAQS, the Commission is adopting the State Only pneumatic
controller inspection requirements that further reduce ozone precursors emissions,
notwithstanding the fact that a pneumatic controller inspection program is not specified
as presumptive RACT in the Oil and Gas CTG.

In accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission determines:




                                                                                        476
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(I)     CAA Sections 172(c) and 182(b) require that Colorado submit a SIP that includes
        provisions requiring the implementation of RACT at sources covered by a CTG.
        The EPA issued the final Oil and Gas CTG in October 2016, leading to the
        revisions to the Ozone SIP adopted by the Commission. The EPA revised the
        ozone NAAQS in 2015 and the DMNFR must attain the new standard or face
        additional requirements. The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address RACT for
        compressors, pneumatic pumps, pneumatic controllers, natural gas processing
        plants, natural gas compressor stations, and well production facilities. The
        revisions apply to equipment already regulated by Colorado on a State Only
        basis and apply to equipment not previously subject to regulation. NSPS OOOO,
        NSPS OOOOa, NSPS Kb, NSPS KKK, NESHAP HH, and NESHAP HHH may
        also apply to the regulated equipment. The Commission determined that the
        adopted RACT SIP requirements are comparable to the Oil and Gas CTG’s
        recommendations. The Commission also determined that there are not
        comparable federal rules requiring the inspection and maintenance of natural
        gas-driven pneumatic controllers.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I), are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies in order to comply. EPA has
        provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa by allowing a
        storage vessel to avoid being subject to NSPS OOOO if the storage vessel is
        subject to any state, federal, or local requirement that brings the storage vessel’s
        emissions below the NSPS OOOO threshold. EPA has also provided some
        flexibility in NSPS OOOOa to allow an owner or operator to request EPA approve
        compliance with an alternate emission limitation (e.g., alternative monitoring,
        state program) instead of related requirements in NSPS OOOOa.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure timely attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone
        NAAQS was not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. In
        addition, Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or
        federally enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s Moderate
        nonattainment area RACT obligations. Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable


                                                                                          477
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        provisions into its SIP directly, as the Commission has done here. Further, the
        State Only pneumatic controller inspection requirements address the lack of
        federal requirements concerning emissions from malfunctioning pneumatic
        controllers.

(IV)    Unless federal law changes, Colorado will be required to comply with the more
        stringent 2015 ozone NAAQS in the near future and may be required to comply
        with the more stringent requirements for a Serious nonattainment area. These
        current SIP and State Only revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new, more stringent, future requirements. In addition,
        these revisions build upon the existing regulatory programs being implemented
        by Colorado’s oil and gas industry, which is more efficient and cost-effective than
        a wholesale adoption of EPA’s recommended oil and gas RACT provisions.

(V)     EPA has established October 27, 2018, deadline for this SIP submission. EPA
        has not yet established deadlines for the DMNFR to attain the 2015 ozone
        NAAQS. However, given the potential reclassification of the DMNFR to Serious
        under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, the Commission determined that taking action to
        reduce ozone precursor emissions as soon as practicable, either as part of the
        SIP or on a State Only basis, is warranted.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Sections XII. and XVIII. strengthen
        Colorado’s SIP and State Only provisions, which currently addresses emissions
        from the oil and gas sector in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued
        growth of Colorado’s oil and gas industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Sections XII. and XVIII., including the
        State Only provisions, establish reasonable equity for oil and gas owners and
        operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2018, or qualify
        for an extension of the attainment deadline, EPA will likely reclassify Colorado as
        a Serious ozone nonattainment area, which automatically reduces the major
        source thresholds from 100 tons per year of VOC and NOx to 50 tons per year;


                                                                                          478
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        thus subjecting more sources to major source requirements. If EPA does not
        approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan;
        thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources. Either of these
        outcomes may subject others to increased costs. The State Only rule revisions
        are expected to reduce future costs by achieving emissions reductions that will
        assist the DMNFR in attaining both the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS thus
        avoiding additional ozone nonattainment area CAA requirements.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements. The State Only pneumatic
        controller inspection program is tailored to be consistent with the SIP required
        LDAR program, thereby reducing costs related to pneumatic controller
        inspections.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for compressors, pneumatic controllers, leak detection
        and repair at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations, and
        equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants. Further, pneumatic controller
        inspections will be conducted using accepted technologies and some owners or
        operators already repair and maintain pneumatic controllers.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to attain the
        NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in an
        unapprovable SIP. The Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was
        reasonable and cost-effective. The Commission further determined the State
        Only natural gas-driven pneumatic controller inspection program is reasonable
        and cost-effective, given the potential for reducing emissions from malfunctioning
        pneumatic controllers and the absence of federal requirements addressing
        pneumatic controller emissions.


                                                                                           479
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s Ozone SIP to address the Moderate nonattainment
area requirements. Colorado must also continue to reduce ozone concentrations to
address both the possibility of reclassification under the 2008 ozone NAAQS and the
2015 ozone NAAQS. However, to the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements
apply to this rulemaking, including regulatory changes made on a State Only basis, and
after considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of the ozone precursors VOC.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

Q.      July 19, 2018 (Sections XVI. and XIX.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act §§ 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis




                                                                                        480
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

On May 21, 2012, the Denver Metro/North Front Range (“DMNFR”) area was
designated as Marginal nonattainment for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (“NAAQS”), effective July 20, 2012, with an attainment date of July 20,
2015 (77 Fed. Reg. 30088). On May 4, 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) published a final rule that determined that DMNFR area failed to attain the 2008
8-hour Ozone NAAQS by the applicable Marginal attainment deadline and therefore
reclassified the DMNFR area to Moderate, effective June 3, 2016, and required
attainment of the NAAQS no later than July 20, 2018, based on 2015-2017 ozone
season data.

Due to the reclassification, Colorado must submit revisions to its State Implementation
Plan (“SIP”) to address the Clean Air Act’s (“CAA”) Moderate nonattainment area
requirements, as set forth in CAA § 182(b) and the final SIP Requirements Rule for the
2008 Ozone NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)). The SIP revision must
include Reasonably Available Control Technology (“RACT”) requirements for major
sources of VOC and/or NOx (i.e. sources that emit or have the potential to emit 100
tons per year (“tpy”) or more). The CAA does not define RACT. However, EPA has
defined RACT as the “lowest emission limitation that a particular source is capable of
meeting by the application of control technology that is reasonably available considering
technological and economic feasibility.” 44 Fed. Reg. 53762 (Sept. 17, 1979). RACT can
be adopted in the form of emissions limitations or work practice standards or other
operation and maintenance requirements as appropriate.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-101, et seq.,
(“Act”), § 25-7-105(1)(a) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations necessary for the proper implementation and administration of a
comprehensive SIP that will assure attainment and maintenance of national ambient air
quality standards. § 25-7-301 directs the Commission to develop a program providing
for the attainment and maintenance of each national ambient air quality standard in
each nonattainment area of the state. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission flexibility in
developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of



                                                                                      481
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-
106(1)(c) and (2) also authorize the Commission to promulgate emission control
regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class
of pollution, and monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. Section 109(1)(a)
authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical
air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources of air pollutants.

Purpose

The Regional Air Quality Council (“RAQC”) and the Air Pollution Control Division
(“Division”) conducted a public process to develop the associated SIP and supporting
rule revisions. In response to the reclassification, the Commission revised Regulation
Number 7 to satisfy RACT SIP requirements for Moderate nonattainment areas by
establishing categorical RACT requirements for major sources of VOC and/or NOx in
the DMNFR. Specifically, the Commission adopted RACT requirements in Section
XVI.D. for existing boilers, stationary combustion turbines, lightweight aggregate kilns,
glass melting furnaces, and compression ignition reciprocating internal combustion
engines (“RICE”) (collectively referred to as “stationary combustion equipment”) located
at major sources of NOx in the DMNFR as of June 3, 2016. The revisions also correct
typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found through the regulation.

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Major VOC and NOx source RACT

Colorado has major sources of VOC and/or NOx in the ozone nonattainment area. The
following sources were known by the Commission to be major sources of VOC and/or
NOx as of June 3, 2016 and were analyzed in Colorado’s Moderate Area SIP for the
2008 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS:

Anheuser-Busch, Fort Collins Brewery (069-0060) and Nutri-Turf (123-0497) (major for
       VOC and NOx)

Ball Metal Beverage Container Corporation (059-0010 major for VOC)



                                                                                         482
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Buckley Air Force Base (005-0028 major for NOx)

Carestream Health (123-6350 major for NOx)

Cemex Construction Materials (013-0003 major for VOC and NOx)

Colorado Interstate Gas, Latigo (005-0055 major for NOx)

Colorado Interstate Gas, Watkins (001-0036 major for VOC and NOx)

Colorado State University (069-0011 major for NOx)

CoorsTek (059-0066 major for VOC)

Corden Pharma Colorado (013-0025 major for VOC)

DCP Midstream, Enterprise (123-0277 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Greeley (123-0099 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Kersey/Mewbourn (123-0090 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Lucerne (123-0107 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Marla (123-0243 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Platteville (123-0595 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Roggen (123-0049 major for VOC and NOx)

DCP Midstream, Spindle (123-0015 major for VOC and NOx)

Denver Regional Landfill, Front Range Landfill, Timberline Energy (123-0079 major for
      NOx)

Elkay Wood Products (001-1602 major for VOC)

IBM Corporation (013-0006 major for NOx)

Kerr-McGee Gathering, Frederick (123-0184 major for VOC and NOx)

Kerr-McGee Gathering, Hudson (123-0048 major for VOC and NOx)

Kerr-McGee Gathering, Fort Lupton/Platte Valley/Lancaster (123-0057 major for VOC
      and NOx)

Kodak Alaris (123-0003 major for VOC)


                                                                                   483
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Metal Container Corporation (123-0134 major for VOC)

Metro/Suez Waste Water Cogeneration Facility (001-0097 major for NOx)

MillerCoors Golden Brewery, Rocky Mountain Metal Container (059-0006), MMI/EtOH
      (059- 0828), and Colorado Energy Nations Company, LLC (059-0820) (major for
      VOC and NOx)

Owens-Brockway Glass (123-4406 major for NOx)

Phillips 66 Pipeline, Denver Terminal (001-0015 major for VOC)

Plains End (059-0864 major for VOC and NOx)

Public Service Company, Cherokee (001-0001 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Denver Steam Plant (031-0041 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Fort Lupton (123-0014 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Fort Saint Vrain (123-0023 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Rocky Mountain Energy Center (123-1342 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Valmont (013-0001 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Yosemite (123-0141 major for NOx)

Public Service Company, Zuni (031-0007 major for NOx)

Rocky Mountain Bottle Company (059-0008 major for NOx)

Sinclair Transportation Company, Denver Terminal (001-0019 major for VOC)

Spindle Hill Energy (123-5468 major for NOx)

Suncor Energy, Commerce City Refinery Plants 1, 2, and 3 (001-0003 major for VOC
      and NOx)

Thermo Cogeneration, JM Shafer (123-0250 major for NOx)

Tri-State Generation, Frank Knutson (001-1349 major for NOx)

TRNLWB, LLC (Trinity Construction Materials, Inc.) (059-0409 major for NOx)

University of Colorado Boulder (013-0553 major for NOx)



                                                                                484
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

WGR Asset Holding, Wattenberg (001-0025 major for VOC and NOx)

Many of the major sources listed are subject to regulatory RACT requirements. Some of
the sources or source emissions points are subject to regulatory RACT requirements in
Colorado’s SIP; other sources or source emissions points are subject to individual
RACT requirements established in federally enforceable permits as a minor source
RACT requirement of inclusion of an applicable federal New Source Performance
Standards (“NSPS”) or National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants
(“NESHAP”). However, as a Moderate nonattainment area, Colorado must include in the
SIP, provisions to implement RACT for Colorado’s major sources. During the November
17, 2016 rulemaking, the Commission adopted source specific RACT for a number of
major sources of VOC and/or NOx (again greater than or equal to 100 tons per year) in
the DMNFR. These were originally adopted as Sections XIX.C.-XIX.G. for stationary
combustion turbines, stationary internal combustion engines, wood furniture
manufacturing, and municipal landfills, respectively, during the November 17, 2016
rulemaking. These sections have changed to Sections XVI.D.4.b. and XIX.A.-D. during
this July 19, 2018 rulemaking, where requirements for stationary combustion turbines
were removed and consolidated into Section XVI.D.4.b. The original Section XIX.C.-
XIX.G. RACT requirements became effective on January 1, 2017. However, during the
November 17, 2016 rulemaking, the Commission determined that little, if any, additional
controls could be implemented by certain major sources by January 1, 2017. The
Commission also determined that not all major sources or major source emission points
were subject to existing regulatory RACT requirements in Regulation Number 7 or
federally enforceable emission limits in Regulation Number 3, Part F. Therefore, the
Commission opted to adopt RACT for Colorado’s existing major sources of NOx on a
categorical basis in this July 19, 2018 rulemaking.

Establishing RACT on a categorical basis is a distinctly different process from
Colorado’s minor source RACT permitting requirement found in Regulation Number 3,
Part B, Section III.D.2. Minor source RACT permitting is specific to new or modified
sources (i.e. sources that have already committed to a capital expenditure to construct
or modify a process), and the designs of which can more easily accommodate changes
prior to construction. Categorical RACT applies much more broadly to source category,


                                                                                       485
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

including both existing sources/equipment and new/modified sources/equipment. This
inclusion of existing equipment significantly impacts costs, as those sources are not
already committed to a capital expenditure and any associated shut down to add
controls. This ultimately impacts the decision on what controls are determined to be
reasonably available, technologically and economically feasible for the source category
as a whole. Thus, categorical RACT may in some cases be different from any RACT
established for a specific source or piece of equipment under the minor source
permitting RACT requirement.

To determine RACT on a categorical basis, the Commission required specific owners or
operators to submit a RACT analysis for the facility or specific emission points to the
Division by December 31, 2017. In these RACT analyses, sources were required to
identify potential options to reduce VOC and/or NOx emissions from the facility or
emission point(s), propose RACT for that facility or point(s), propose associated
monitoring, propose a schedule for implementation, and include economic and technical
information demonstrating why the proposal established RACT for the particular facility
or emission point(s).

The following major sources were required to submit RACT analyses:

Anheuser-Busch (069-0060) – emission points equal to or greater than 2 tpy VOC or 5
tpy NOx

Buckley Air Force (005-0028) – engines and engine test cell (pt 102, 103, 104, 105,
       101)

Carestream Health (123-6350) – boilers (pt 004)

Colorado Energy Nations Company, LLC (059-0820) – boilers (pt 001, 002)

Colorado Interstate Gas, Latigo (005-0055) – engines (001, 011)

Colorado Interstate Gas, Watkins (001-0036) – engines (001, 002)

Colorado State University (069-0011) – boilers (pt 003, 005, 007, 013)

IBM (013-0006) – engines and boilers (pt 088, 090, 001, 011, 095)




                                                                                          486
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Kerr-McGee Gathering, Fort Lupton/Platte Valley/Lancaster (123-0057) – turbine (pt
      052) and engines (pt 038 through 044, and 047 through 049)

Metro/Suez Waste Water Cogeneration Facility (001-0097 major for NOx)

MillerCoors Golden Brewery (059-0006) – emission points with emissions equal to or
      greater than 2 tpy VOC or 5 tpy NOx

MMI/EtOH (059-0828) – emission points with emissions equal to or greater than 2 tpy
      VOC or 5 tpy NOx

Nutri-Turf (123-0497) – emission points with emissions equal to or greater than 2 tpy
      VOC or 5 tpy NOx

Owens-Brockway (123-4406) – emission points with emissions equal to or greater than
      5 tpy NOx (pt 001-023, 025)

Public Service Company, Cherokee (001-0001) – turbines (pt 028, 029)

Public Service Company, Fort Saint Vrain (123-0023) – turbines (pt 010, 011, 001)

Public Service Company, Denver Steam Plant (031-0041) – boilers (pt 001, 002)

Public Service Company, Zuni (031-0007) – boilers (pt 001, 002, 003)

Public Service Company, Fort Lupton (123-0014) – turbines (pt 001, 002)

Public Service Company, Valmont (013-0001) – turbine (pt 002)

Rocky Mountain Bottle (059-0008) – glass melt furnaces (pt 001)

Suncor (001-0003) – boilers (pt 309, 019, 021, 023)

Tri-State Generation and Transmission, Frank Knutson (001-1349) – turbines (pt 001,
      003)

TRNLWB, LLC (Trinity Construction Materials) (059-0409) – shale kiln (pt 001)

University of Colorado (013-0553) – Power House and East District – boilers (pt 001,
      002, 012, 013) and Williams Village– boilers (pt 016, 017)

WGR Asset Holding, Wattenberg (001-0025) – boiler (pt 012), turbine and duct burner
      (pt 021) and engines (pt 004 and 018)



                                                                                        487
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Based on the information provided in these RACT analyses as well as the Division’s
own in-depth review of rules adopted by Moderate nonattainment areas in other states
and EPA guidance such as the RACT/BACT/LAER Clearinghouse, the Commission
adopted RACT requirements in Section XVI.D. for stationary combustion equipment
located at existing major sources of NOx in the DMNFR. The requirements of Section
XVI.D. only apply to existing stationary combustion equipment located at sources in the
DMNFR that were major for NOx as of June 3, 2016 (i.e. the effective date of the
DMNFR’s reclassification to Moderate nonattainment).

Definitions

The definition for “stationary combustion equipment” refers to individual emission points
and not grouped emission points.

Emission limitations and operational requirements

The Commission adopted categorical emission limitations (Section XVI.D.4.), which
vary based on fuel type and size of the stationary combustion equipment, where
applicable. Affected stationary combustion equipment is required to comply with these
exemptions by October 1, 2021. This compliance period is necessary in order to allow
affected sources sufficient time to complete any capital expenditures, install any control
or monitoring equipment, and/or satisfy any permitting requirements necessary to
comply with the applicable emission limitation. The heat input size threshold for
determining whether an emission limitation applies refers to the maximum design value
of the stationary combustion equipment. De-rated heat input is not the equivalent of
maximum design value heat input. Therefore, stationary combustion equipment cannot
simply de-rate to fall below the size threshold. For certain categories of stationary
combustion equipment, if the equipment’s heat input is below the applicability threshold
for the emission limitations, then the equipment would still be required to comply with
the combustion process adjustment requirements originally adopted by the Commission
during the November 17, 2016 rulemaking (now in Section XVI.D.6.) The compliance
date for the categorical emission limits (i.e. XVI.D.4 and XVI.D.5) is independent of the
compliance date for the combustion process adjustment (i.e. XVI.D.6(b)(vi)(A)).




                                                                                        488
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The combustion process adjustment requirements shall apply as RACT to a particular
piece of equipment in accordance with the applicability provision, Section XVI.D.6.a.,
regardless of whether or not that piece of equipment is subject to a categorical emission
limit in Section XVI.D.4. As described in Section XVI.D.6.a., the combustion process
adjustment requirements only apply to stationary combustion equipment with
uncontrolled actual emissions of NOx equal to or greater than 5 tons per year located at
major sources of NOx. For stationary combustion turbines, the heat input capacity
threshold for the emission limitations takes into account to the heat input capacity of the
stationary combustion turbine only and not the heat input capacity of the stationary
combustion turbine and any duct burner that may be used.

For glass melting furnaces at major sources of NOx, the Commission adopted a
production-based categorical emission limitation (Section XVI.D.4.d.). Emissions from
some glass melting furnaces are routed through a common stack, where total emissions
from multiple furnaces are monitored on a continuous basis. Where this is the case, the
total emissions, as monitored from the common stack, shall be divided by the total glass
production from all glass melting furnaces associated with the common stack to
demonstrate compliance with the categorical RACT limit.

Exemptions

The Commission determined several exemptions from compliance with the categorical
RACT standards to be appropriate for Colorado’s source mix. In Section XVI.D.2.a., the
Commission adopted a 20% capacity factor exemption for boilers and a 10% capacity
factor exemption for stationary combustion turbines and compression ignition
reciprocating internal combustion engines. The Commission established the 20% and
10% capacity factor exemptions, in part, as a consolidation of a number of limited-use
exemptions that were analyzed and considered by the Division to limit the complexity of
the categorical rules and adequately accommodate technical and cost concerns for
limited-use equipment. A number of stakeholders requested reasonable exemptions for
specific equipment types involving seasonal operation, limited-use, natural gas
curtailment, emergency electric generation, provision of replacement capacity during
periods of extended primary unit outage for major maintenance, and the lack of



                                                                                       489
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

manufacturer emission rate guarantees for low capacity units. The Commission
determined that the capacity factor exemptions addressed each of these concerns, and
thus that additional individual exemptions were not necessary beyond the capacity
factor exemption.

At low capacities, controls are often cost prohibitive or technologically infeasible. The
Commission determined that there are multiple facilities with excess steam capacity that
have the ability to shift capacity (and therefore emissions) away from older higher
emitting boilers that are not currently configured to comply with the categorical standard
or monitoring requirements. Many of the older boilers are not equipped with continuous
emission monitoring systems (“CEMS”) and may require add-on controls to comply with
the categorical standard. The shift in capacity to newer, lower emitting boilers which are
already equipped with NOx controls and CEMS will result in a net emissions reduction.
The 20% capacity factor exemption for boilers provides a secondary compliance option
and incentive to facilities that have this ability, and the resulting shift in emissions from
high emitting units to low emitting units will result in an overall environmental benefit.

Some stakeholders expressed concerns that a few boilers with low historical use (e.g.
heat input below 25%) may need to install controls that cannot meet the RACT standard
because manufacturer emission rate guarantees usually apply only when the units
operate between 25-100% of the boiler maximum continuous rating (“MCR”). Generally,
the boiler burners have a limited range of heat input where the manufacturer can
guarantee compliance with a specific emission rate. Emissions from boilers operating at
heat inputs below 25% MCR are generally classified as startup/shutdown emissions.
Thus, if the Division proposed a RACT standard that a particular low utilization boiler
was unable to meet and the Division did not offer an adequate capacity factor
exemption, the operator would need to install controls and operate the boiler at higher
capacity factors to ensure the installed controls meet manufacturer guaranteed
emission rates in order to comply with the RACT standard.

The installation of boiler controls coupled with increasing boiler heat input in order to
ensure compliance with a categorical RACT standard runs contrary to the original intent
of reducing emissions, thus the Commission concludes that it is reasonable to allow



                                                                                             490
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

exclusion of limited-use boilers from the categorical standard and associated CEMS
requirements, particularly regarding boilers with historically low heat inputs that could
not rely on the manufacturer emission rate guarantees if the installation of emission
controls are needed in order to comply with the categorical standard. Consequently, the
Commission determined that a 20% capacity factor averaged over a 3-year period is
reasonable for these limited-use boilers.

For stationary combustion turbines and compression ignition RICE, a 10% capacity
factor exemption from the proposed categorical emission standards and monitoring
requirements is appropriate because combustion turbines and compression ignition
RICE are more likely to operate during the summer months. Moreover, for turbines and
compression ignition RICE that are used primarily for emergency power generation or
peak demand, historic capacity factors are extremely low (0%-5%), and a 10% capacity
factor exemption will provide enough operational flexibility to respond to emergency and
peak demand events.

Separately, the categorical RACT for glass melting furnaces provides a 35% low usage
allowance similar to capacity factor.

The capacity factor is determined based on the rolling 3-year average of the actual heat
input for each calendar year divided by maximum allowable heat input. Alternatively, for
electric generating units, the proposal allows for capacity factor to be determined based
on electric output, which is consistent with the federal Acid Rain Program.

The Commission intended that the exemption for stationary combustion equipment with
total uncontrolled actual emissions less than 5 tpy NOx was based on the permitting
threshold in Regulation 3. Similarly, this equipment was not exempted from having to
undergo a RACT analysis. The owner or operator must use the most recent air pollution
emission notice (“APEN”) submitted to the Division to determine total uncontrolled
actual emissions.

Stationary combustion equipment that meets one of the exemptions contained in
Section XVI.D.2. is not required to comply with the emission limitations, the compliance
demonstration requirements and the related recordkeeping and reporting requirements
contained in Sections XVI.D.4., XVI.D.5., XVI.D.7., and XVI.D.8., except for XVI.D.7.g,


                                                                                        491
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

which requires a source that qualifies for an exemption under Section XVI.D.2., to
maintain records demonstrating an exemption applies. All stationary combustion
equipment is subject to some level of recordkeeping and may also be subject to
combustion process adjustment requirements.

Once stationary combustion equipment no longer qualifies for any exemption, the owner
or operator must comply with the applicable requirements of Section XVI.D. as
expeditiously as practicable but no later than 36 months after the equipment is no
longer exempt. Therefore, if any stationary combustion equipment has to undertake a
capital expenditure, such as installing a CEMS, in order to comply with Section XVI.D.,
then they have up to a maximum of three years to come into compliance. However, if no
such capital expenditure or change in operational practice is required, then the
stationary combustion equipment should comply sooner than three years (i.e. as
expeditiously as practicable.) Additionally, once stationary combustion equipment no
longer qualifies for any exemption, the owner or operator must conduct a performance
test using EPA test methods within 180 days and notify the Division of the results and
whether emission controls will be required to comply with the emission limitations. This
means that a source can fall into and out of having to comply with the emission
limitation, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the rule if they
satisfy the performance test requirements (i.e. the Division will not follow a “once
in/always in” approach with respect to emission control requirements of exemptions.)
Similarly, this 180-day period starts once the equipment is no longer exempt.

Monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements

The Commission determined that affected stationary combustion equipment comply
with certain monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements by October 1, 2021.
In order to provide clarity and regulatory certainty, many of the monitoring requirements
adopted by the Commission incorporate by reference existing federal requirements and
are consistent with rules in Moderate nonattainment areas in other states establishing
RACT for these source categories.

The Commission is requiring CEMS or continuous emissions rate monitoring systems
(“CERMS”) for boilers with a maximum design heat input capacity equal to or greater


                                                                                       492
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

than 100 MMBtu/hr, lightweight aggregate kilns with a maximum heat input design
capacity equal to or greater than 50 MMBtu/hr, and glass melting. CERMS may require
a stack gas flow rate monitor, where necessary, in order to measure volumetric flow rate
and mass emissions. Where stack gas velocity is extremely low, as may be the case for
a glass melting furnace, flow can be measured using a Division approved calculation
methodology if flow cannot be accurately measured using traditional differential
pressure or ultrasonic flow measuring devices. Moreover, where measuring emission
rates in terms of emissions per unit of heat input (i.e. lb/MMBtu), EPA Method 19
calculations may be used using the appropriate F factor (i.e. the ratio of combustion gas
volumes to heat inputs).

Further, it is the Commission’s intent to allow electric utility boilers and stationary
combustion turbines subject to the Acid Rain Program to use the quality
assurance/quality control and data validation procedures in 40 CFR Part 75 for
monitoring emissions to satisfy monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements in
this rule. Affected units that are subject to a NOx emission limitation in an NSPS and
use CEMS or CERMS to monitor compliance with that limit can use those monitoring,
recordkeeping and reporting requirements to demonstrate compliance with this rule.
Similarly, owners or operators of stationary combustion turbines using performance
testing to demonstrate compliance with NOx emission limitations of NSPS GG or KKKK
may utilize those procedures for demonstrating compliance with the emission limitation
in this rule. Where an initial performance test has already been conducted to determine
compliance with NSPS GG or KKKK, it is not expected that another initial performance
test must be performed for purposes of demonstrating compliance with Section XVI.D.
Where an initial performance test has not been previously conducted, it must be
completed by October 1, 2021 to demonstrate compliance.

For each initial or periodic test, sources should calculate the backup fuel’s heat input for
the calendar year prior to the year in which the performance test is required to
determine if a test is required for each fuel or only for the primary fuel. Moreover,
periodic performance tests must be conducted no more than 24 months apart.




                                                                                          493
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

With respect to the fuel flowmeter requirements, the Division reserves the right to audit
quality assurance procedures with respect to manufacturer’s instructions. The heat input
measured and recorded by the fuel flowmeter is to be in the same unit of measurement
as the applicable emission limitation. With respect to the quarterly or semi-annual
reporting requirement, the Commission intended to only require that reports be
submitted no less than semi-annually, but a source may submit quarterly reports in
order to be consistent with existing reporting frequencies established in a permit and/or
applicable NSPS or NESHAP.

With respect to the performance test reports, all performance test reports must compare
average emissions determined by the performance test with the applicable emission
limitation using the same number of significant figures as the emission limitation.

Incorporation by Reference in Sections XIX. and XVI.

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission
to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met
by including specific information, making the regulations available and because
repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. However, these regulations are included in the SIP in
order to establish RACT, which must be included in the SIP to satisfy CAA Sections
172(c) and 182(b). Therefore, in order to comply with Part D of the CAA, the
Commission has incorporated federal regulations in Sections XVI.D.5. and XIX.A.
through D. by reference.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise its ozone SIP to address the ozone Moderate nonattainment area
requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires
Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission
adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to ensure attainment with the 2008 8-
hour ozone NAAQS and satisfy Colorado’s Moderate nonattainment area obligations,
including those related to RACT. These revisions do not exceed or differ from the




                                                                                      494
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment area SIPs; however, in
accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission nonetheless determines:

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address RACT requirements for major
        sources of VOC and NOx in Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area. Colorado’s
        major sources of VOC and NOx are subject to various and numerous NSPS or
        NESHAP, Regulation Number 7 RACT requirements, or RACT/beyond RACT
        analyses. The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include regulatory
        RACT requirements for Colorado’s major sources of VOC and NOx in the SIP.
        Specifically, the Commission adopted RACT requirements in Section XVI.D. for
        combustion equipment located at major sources of NOx in the DMNFR. MACT
        DDDDD, MACT JJJJJJ, MACT ZZZZ, MACT YYYY, NSPS Db, NSPS GG, NSPS
        KKKK, NSPS IIII, NSPS JJJJ, NSPS OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, and the
        compliance demonstration requirements in 40 CFR Parts 60 and 75 may apply to
        such stationary combustion equipment. However, the Regulation Number 7
        revisions apply on a broader basis to specific existing stationary combustion
        equipment in the DMNFR.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies in order to comply. EPA has
        provided some flexibility in certain NSPS and MACT. Certain stationary
        combustion equipment with a lower heat input may trigger the combustion
        process adjustment work practice requirements of this rule.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. In addition,
        Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally
        enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s Moderate nonattainment
        area RACT obligations. Instead, Colorado must adopt applicable provisions into
        its SIP directly, as the Commission has done here.

(IV)    Colorado will be required to comply with the lower 2015 ozone NAAQS. These
        current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated community to comply


                                                                                          495
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS insofar as RACT
        analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted by the
        Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established a January 1, 2017, deadline for this SIP submission. There
        is no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Sections XVI. and XIX. establish
        categorical RACT for major sources of VOC and/or NOx, and thus are necessary
        to satisfy RACT SIP requirements for Moderate nonattainment areas and are
        specific to existing emission points at major sources of VOC and NOx, allowing
        for continued growth at Colorado’s major sources.

(VII)   The Revisions to Regulation Number 7, Sections XVI., and XIX. establish
        reasonable equity for major sources of VOC and/or NOx by providing the same
        categorical standards for similarly situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2018 (Colorado
        has requested a 1-year clean data extension), EPA will likely reclassify Colorado
        as a serious ozone nonattainment area, which automatically reduces the major
        source thresholds from 100 tons per year of VOC and NOx to 50 tons per year;
        thus subjecting more sources to major source requirements. If EPA does not
        approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan;
        thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources. Either of these
        outcomes may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        additional monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate,
        where possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. The revisions concerning major sources of VOC and/or NOx generally
        reflect current emission controls and work practices.



                                                                                       496
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Although alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to
        attain the NAAQS, the Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was
        reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no action alternative would very likely
        result in an un-approvable SIP and possibly an EPA FIP and/or sanctions.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the Moderate nonattainment
area requirements. However, to the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply
to this rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the
Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of the ozone precursors VOC and NOx.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.




                                                                                          497
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

R.      November 15, 2018 (Sections I., II., VI., VIII., IX., X., XII., XIII., XVI., XVII., XIX.,
XX., and XXI.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act §§ 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

On May 21, 2012, the Denver Metro/North Front Range (“DMNFR”) area was
designated as marginal nonattainment for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (“NAAQS”), effective July 20, 2012, with an attainment date of July 20,
2015 (77 Fed. Reg. 30088). On May 4, 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) published a final rule that determined that DMNFR area failed to attain the 2008
8-hour Ozone NAAQS by the applicable marginal attainment deadline and therefore
reclassified the DMNFR area to moderate, effective June 3, 2016. Due to the
reclassification, Colorado must submit revisions to its State Implementation Plan (“SIP”)
to address the Clean Air Act’s (“CAA”) moderate nonattainment area requirements, as
set forth in CAA § 182(b) and the final SIP Requirements Rule for the 2008 Ozone
NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)). The SIP revision must include
Reasonably Available Control Technology (“RACT”) requirements for major sources of
VOC and/or NOx (i.e., sources that emit or have the potential to emit 100 tons per year
(“tpy”) or more) and VOC source categories addressed by an EPA Control Techniques
Guideline (“CTG”).

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-101, et seq.,
(“Act”), § 25-7-105(1)(a) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations necessary for the proper implementation and administration of a
comprehensive SIP that will assure attainment and maintenance of national ambient air
quality standards. § 25-7-301 directs the Commission to develop a program providing
for the attainment and maintenance of each national ambient air quality standard in
each nonattainment area of the state. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission flexibility in


                                                                                             498
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of
regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-
106(1)(c) and (2) also authorize the Commission to promulgate emission control
regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class
of pollution, and monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. Section 109(1)(a)
authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical
air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources of air pollutants.

Purpose

In November 2016, the Commission determined that some major sources and CTG
VOC source categories were adequately addressed under existing SIP requirements.
The Commission also adopted new requirements for some major sources and CTG
VOC source categories. In November 2017, the Commission adopted categorical RACT
requirements for the oil and gas industry in response to EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG. In July
2018, the Commission adopted categorical RACT requirements for combustion
equipment at major sources that the Commission determined in 2016 were not
addressed by SIP RACT requirements.

In this rulemaking, the Commission adopts SIP requirements that further support and
complete Colorado’s obligation as a moderate ozone nonattainment area to revise
Colorado’s SIP to include provisions that implement RACT for all major sources of VOC
and/or NOx and for all CTG VOC source categories in the DMNFR ozone
nonattainment area. Specifically, the Commission adopts categorical RACT
requirements for major source breweries, wood furniture manufacturing, and addresses
EPA concerns with the industrial cleaning solvent, metal furniture surface coating, and
miscellaneous metal surface coating requirements. The Commission also revises
specific rule or reference methods incorporated by reference to add applicable citation
dates. Last, the Commission adopts specific revisions in a SIP clean-up effort.

Further, the Commission corrects typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors
found throughout Regulation Number 7.

Major source RACT




                                                                                         499
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Colorado has major sources of VOC and/or NOx in the DMNFR. Under marginal and
moderate ozone nonattainment classifications, major sources are sources with the
potential to emit greater than or equal to 100 tpy of NOx or VOC. Many of the major
sources analyzed in 2016 were already subject to regulatory RACT requirements in
Colorado’s SIP, individual RACT requirements established in federally enforceable
permits as a minor source RACT requirements, or an applicable federal New Source
Performance Standard (“NSPS”) or National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air
Pollutant (“NESHAP”). However, as a moderate nonattainment area, Colorado must
include provisions in the SIP to implement RACT for Colorado’s major sources. In
November 2016, the Commission directed some major sources to submit RACT
analyses to the Division, including two major source breweries. The Commission adopts
in this November 2018, rulemaking categorical RACT requirements for major source
brewing activities.

Major source breweries

The Commission adopts RACT requirements for owners and operators of breweries
producing malt beverages and their brewery related operations at a major source VOC
as of June 3, 2016, located in the DMNFR. In a moderate ozone nonattainment area, a
major VOC source is one that emits or has the potential to emit greater than 100 tpy
VOC. A brewery includes brewhouse, fermentation, aging, and/or packaging operations.
Brewery related operations include operations that support the production of malt
beverages such as wastewater management, container manufacturing, and ethanol
distillation. The Commission established RACT for combustion equipment, including at
breweries, in July 2018, in Regulation Number 7, Section XVI. The Commission now
adopts a process loss limit and pollution prevention requirements for brewery packaging
operations. These pollution prevention provisions include performance metrics to
reduce product loss, operator training, and packaging equipment to reduce container
breakage and product loss. The Commission also adopts wastewater management and
treatment requirements for land application of wastewater. Lastly, the Commission
adopts requirements for owners or operators to keep records of production, pollution
prevention activities, and wastewater to demonstrate compliance with the operational
requirements.


                                                                                       500
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The largest VOC emissions sources inside a brewery are associated with packaging
operations, including can, bottle, and other container fillers. Breweries can reduce VOC
emissions by optimizing packaging operations. The process loss limitation is
representative of packaging and filling optimization and, therefore, is an indicator, and
potential driver, of the resulting VOC emission reductions. The process loss limitation
does not include the railcar loading of beer concentrate that is shipped off-site for
packaging. In this process, empty railcars are filled with beer concentrate held in beer
concentrate receiving tanks after the aging process. The process loss from the
automated loading of the beer concentrate from tanks into railcars is minimal and
emissions from the filling of cans, bottles, kegs, or other containers are included with the
emissions of the off-site packaging facility.

The process loss is calculated on calendar month and rolling 12-month bases across all
packaging operations (i.e., filling lines), which aligns with existing product tracking
programs. Process loss equates to the difference in the quantity of malt beverage
metered at the filler and the quantity in containers as tracked for the Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (“TTB”). Operators determine the average calendar
month process loss by comparing the total volumes metered at the fillers to the total
volume counted by the TTB case counters. Owners or operators will then determine
monthly average process loss percentage by dividing the difference in meter and case
counter values by the total volume metered at the fillers. Utilizing an average process
loss limit also allows for variations in individual line or brand product loss due to
specialty brands or innovative containers. The brewing industry is seeing decreased
sales of high-volume brands and increased consumer demand for small-volume unique
or complex brands. This market change impacts process loss as the high-volume
brands have low process loss values whereas specialty brands often result in higher
process loss values due to brand recipe complexity, brand mix complexity, and
production schedule complexity. The packaging of more types of brands and more
complex brands result in higher process loss values because of differences in recipes
that require more time for the filler to adjust to the appropriate fill level, more frequent
product change-overs of the filling lines, and more unique packaging. The requirement
to completely flush a filling line between brands also increases process loss values


                                                                                           501
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

when the specialty brands are produced in lesser quantities than high-volume brands.
Further, bottle filling lines often have different process loss values than can filling lines,
therefore the change in container demand can impact the overall process loss. The
average process loss limit of 6 percent on a calendar month and 4 percent on a 12-
month rolling average leaves the necessary margin for variability and innovation, while
still providing an indicator of RACT-level control of brewery packaging operations VOC
emissions.

The Commission exempts from the process loss, pollution prevention, and
recordkeeping requirements emissions units’ subject to a work practice or emission
control requirement in another federally enforceable section of Regulation Number 7
and emission units with total uncontrolled actual VOC emissions less than two tons per
year. The first exemption was adopted to avoid subjecting sources to overlapping,
duplicative, or contradictory RACT requirements. The second exemption was adopted
for consistency with other major source RACT provisions and the use of Colorado’s
permitting thresholds for NOx and VOC to identify the emission points at major sources
for which Colorado evaluated RACT.

The Commission also exempts equipment or activities related to research and
development and newly installed, upgraded, or replaced packaging operations.
Research and development activities include testing different recipes and packaging
types before a product is distributed into commerce. The six-month startup exemption
for newly installed, upgraded, or replaced packaging operations allows for the testing
and adjustment of the new equipment to meet performance requirements. Examples of
newly installed, upgraded, or replaced packaging operations include a new filling line or
an upgraded or replaced man-to-machine-interface. Startup of newly installed,
upgraded, or replaced packing operations does not include the startup or changeover of
malt beverages or new recipes. Quality assurance teams follow a statistical process to
verify that equipment is meeting quality standards prior to releasing salable product.
These processes may include additional container testing, product sampling, or
additional filler flushes while packaging operations are fine-tuned to meet key
performance indicators. The volume of the product metered at the filler during the
research and development and startup processes is excluded from the monthly process


                                                                                           502
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

loss calculations. However, new, upgraded, or replaced packaging operations are not
exempt from employees training requirements to ensure that employees understand the
new packaging operations after startup.

Pollution prevention provisions also include the use and operation of packaging
equipment to reduce container breakage and product loss. The Commission exempts
from the automated filling equipment requirements packaging operations at pilot
brewery operations. Automated filling equipment may be mechanical with a set fill
quantity or electric with a flow meter and adjusting fill quantity. Both processes improve
consistency, reduce spillage and product loss, and reduce the variation that may occur
from human error.

The automated filling lines also include fill level detectors that will reject inadequately
filled containers for recovery and recycling. A pilot brewery operation may serve the
purposes of research and development but can also be utilized to produce very small
quantities of product that is distributed into commerce. Pilot brewery operations can
include different filling operations (e.g., bottles, kegs) but may use some manual filling
related processes instead of automated processes. The use of manual processes is
consistent with industry practices for operations of this small size, less than 50,000
barrels per year, and provides flexibility to account for production variations that may
occur during research and development or small batch production.

Wood furniture manufacturing

In 2016, the Commission determined that only one source in the DMNFR exceeded the
Wood Furniture CTG applicability threshold, and that source was a major source of
VOC. Therefore, the Commission incorporated by reference requirements in 40 CFR
Part 63, Subpart JJ (National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing
Operations) into the SIP for wood furniture surface coating operations. In the 2008
Ozone NAAQS Implementation rule, EPA stated that states could streamline their RACT
analysis by relating MACT controls to VOC RACT considerations. However, EPA has
since expressed concerns that the NESHAP JJ volatile hazardous air pollutant (“VHAP”)
coating content limits may not adequately address coating VOC emissions. The
Commission therefore removes the incorporation by reference of NESHAP JJ for wood


                                                                                           503
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

furniture manufacturing operations in Section XIX. and is instead including the CTG
recommended coating VOC content limits and work practices in Section IX.O.

The coating VOC content limits apply to sealers, topcoats, acid-cured alkyd amino vinyl
sealers, or acid-cured alkyd amino conversion varnish topcoats. EPA’s Wood Furniture
CTG does not define acid-cured topcoats or sealers but does describe acid-catalyzed
finishes as the most common catalyzed finishes. The Wood Furniture CTG further
states that the film-forming resins in these finishes are usually a urea-formaldehyde or
melamine-formaldehyde prepolymer mixed with an alkyd resin that serves as a
plasticizer. Common catalysts contained in the acid-catalyzed finishes include sulfuric
acid and p-toluenesulponic acid and film formation occurs through curing
(polymerization) of the resins rather than drying.

SIP Clean-up

Industrial Cleaning Solvent

In 2016, the Commission adopted provisions in Regulation Number 7, Section X. to
include RACT requirements related to the use of industrial cleaning solvents. The
Commission adopted several exemptions recommended by EPA’s Industrial Cleaning
Solvents CTG as well as exemption for sources complying with cleaning solvent
requirements in a federally enforceable NSPS, NESHAP, Best Available Control
Technology requirement, or Lowest Achievable Emissions Rate requirement, which was
similar to an EPA approved exemption in Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP. EPA has since
indicated concerns with approving this broad exemption due to a perceived lack of
specificity. The Commission therefore removes the broad exemption in Section
X.E.4.a.(i).

Metal furniture and miscellaneous metal surface coating

EPA published Metal Furniture CTGs in 1977 and 2007 and Miscellaneous Metal Parts
and Products CTGs in 1978 and in 2008. In the 2008 Ozone NAAQS Implementation
rule, EPA stated that states could conclude that sources already addressed by RACT
determinations for a previous ozone NAAQS do not need to implement additional
controls because a new RACT determination would result in the same or similar control



                                                                                      504
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

technology as the initial RACT determination and any incremental emissions reduction
from the application of a second round of controls would be small and the cost
unreasonable.

Therefore, in 2016 the Commission relied on the RACT provisions relating to the 1977
and 1978 CTGs adopted into Regulation Number 7, Sections IX.H. and IX.L. in 1978
and 1980 to continue to establish RACT for metal furniture and miscellaneous metal
coating operations. EPA has since indicated concerns with the existing provisions due to
a lack of specified application technique. The Commission therefore revises Section IX.
to specify the use of good air pollution control practices, including efficient application
methods.

1990 and 1991 RACT Reports

In 1990, the Commission adopted one of several requirements in Regulation Number 7,
specifically Sections I.B.2.f. and I.B.2.g., for existing sources to address EPA concerns
with the design, implementation, and enforceability of Colorado’s previously submitted
and approved Ozone SIP. The provisions included one-time reporting requirements
concerning source emissions and RACT for sources existing as of 1989. The provisions
were not an ongoing reporting requirement potentially necessary for monitoring
compliance with applicable emissions limits. EPA approved these provisions into
Colorado’s SIP in 1995, without discussion. Due to these one-time requirements having
passed and Colorado’s major stationary sources being subject to RACT requirements in
Regulation Number 7, as adopted by the Commission through 2018, the Commission
removed these historic provisions. Removal of these provisions does not remove or
modify any control measures, therefore does not affect emissions nor interfere with
attainment or reasonable further progress. Where information in the Sections I.B.2.f.
and I.B.2.g. reports informed RACT requirements under Section II.C., sources remain
subject to applicable RACT requirements and any emission reporting requirements as
addressed by the emission statement rule last approved by EPA in 2015 (See 80 Fed.
Reg. 50205 (August 19, 2015)).

Incorporation by Reference




                                                                                          505
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission
to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met
by including specific information and making the regulations available because
repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7, Sections II., VI., VIII., IX., X., XII., XIII., XVI., and XVII.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise its Ozone SIP to address the moderate ozone nonattainment area
requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires
Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission
adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to ensure attainment with the 2008 8-
hour ozone NAAQS and satisfy Colorado’s moderate nonattainment area obligations,
including those related to RACT. These revisions do not exceed or differ from the
federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment area SIPs; however, in
accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission nonetheless determines:

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address RACT requirements for major
       sources of VOC in Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area. Colorado’s major
       sources of VOC are subject to various and numerous NSPS or NESHAP,
       Regulation Number 7 requirements, or RACT/beyond RACT analyses. The
       Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include regulatory RACT
       requirements for Colorado’s major sources of VOC in the SIP. Specifically, the
       Commission adopted RACT requirements in Section XX. for brewing activities
       located at major sources of VOC in the DMNFR. The Commission also adopted
       RACT requirements from EPA’s Wood Furniture CTG for wood furniture surface
       coating in Section IX. MACT JJ may apply to wood furniture surface coating
       operations.

(II)   The federal rule discussed in (I) is primarily technology-based in that it largely
       prescribes the use of specific coating VHAP contents in order to comply. The


                                                                                            506
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        federal rule provides flexibility by allowing subject facilities to select any coating
        meeting the specified VHAP content limits.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. In addition,
        Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally
        enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s moderate nonattainment
        area RACT obligations. Instead, Colorado must adopt applicable provisions into
        its SIP directly, as the Commission has done here.

(IV)    Colorado will be required to comply with the lower 2015 ozone NAAQS. These
        current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
        with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS insofar as RACT
        analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted by the
        Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established a January 1, 2017, deadline for this SIP. There is no timing
        issue that might justify changing this time frame.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Sections IX., X., and XX. establish
        categorical RACT for major sources of VOC and CTG VOC source categories,
        and thus are necessary to satisfy RACT SIP requirements for moderate
        nonattainment areas. The provisions are specific to emission points at sources of
        VOC, allowing for continued growth at Colorado’s sources.

(VII)   The Revisions to Regulation Number 7, Sections IX., X., and XX. establish
        reasonable equity for sources of VOC by providing the same categorical
        standards for similarly situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2018 (Colorado
        has requested a one-year clean data extension) EPA will likely reclassify
        Colorado as a serious ozone nonattainment area, which automatically reduces
        the major source thresholds from 100 tons per year of VOC and NOx to 50 tons



                                                                                            507
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        per year; thus subjecting more sources to major source requirements. If EPA
        does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
        Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
        Either of these outcomes may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. The revisions concerning major sources of VOC generally reflect
        current emission controls and work practices.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Although alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to
        attain the NAAQS, the Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was
        reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no action alternative would very likely
        result in an un-approvable SIP and possibly an EPA FIP and/or sanctions.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the moderate nonattainment
area requirements. However, to the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply
to this rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the
Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of the ozone precursors VOC and NOx.




                                                                                        508
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

S.      December 19, 2019 (Sections I. through XX. and Appendices A through F –
reorganized into Parts A through F)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act §§ 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) §§
25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted revisions to
several Colorado Revised Statutes in Senate Bill 19-181 (SB 19-181) (Concerning
additional public welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations)
that include directives for both the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and the Air
Quality Control Commission (Commission). This proposed rulemaking focuses on the
Air Quality Control Commission directives in § 25-7-109, CRS, SB19-181 directs the
Commission to adopt regulations to “minimize emissions of methane and other
hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and oxides of nitrogen (NOx)” from
all the “natural gas supply chain.” Further, SB 19-181 identifies specific provisions the
Commission should consider including semi-annual leak detection and repair (LDAR)
inspection requirements at all well production facilities, transmission pipeline and
compressor station inspection requirements, continuous methane emission monitoring
requirements, and pneumatic device requirements. This rulemaking addressed many of



                                                                                          509
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

the specific provisions for consideration, except continuous methane monitoring, but is
only the first of many rulemakings to come in addressing SB 19-181.

Further, on August 15, 2019, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed to
reclassify the Denver Metro North Front Range (DMNFR) to Serious, after 2015-2017
ozone data failed to show attainment of the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (NAAQS) of 75 parts per billion (ppb). See 84 Fed. Reg. 41,674 (Aug.
15, 2019). As a Serious area, the major source threshold lowers from 100 tons per year
(tpy) of VOC or NOx to 50 tpy and the DMNFR’s attainment date becomes July 20,
2021. EPA has also designated the DMNFR as Marginal nonattainment for the 2015
ozone NAAQS of 70 ppb, with an attainment date of August 3, 2021.

Therefore, as a first step to addressing the new statutory directives, and ensuring
progress towards attainment of the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, the Commission is
adopting revisions to Regulation Number 7 to minimize emissions from the oil and gas
sector and to include reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements for
major sources with VOC and/or NOx emissions equal to or greater than 50 tpy. The oil
and gas industry is a significant source of VOC, NOx, ethane, and methane emissions,
and the Commission expects the industry’s growth to continue in the foreseeable future.
Improved technologies and business practices, many already utilized by Colorado oil
and gas operators, can reduce emissions of hydrocarbons such as VOCs, ethane, and
methane in a cost-effective manner. These technologies and practices include, without
limitation, frequent LDAR inspections, reducing emissions from pneumatic controllers,
reducing emissions from the transmission segment, storage tank measurement
systems, and vapor collection and return equipment.

For these reasons and more, the Commission believes additional control measures
beyond the current requirements in Regulation Number 7 and NSPS OOOO (and NSPS
OOOOa) are appropriate. Colorado’s considerable experience with the regulation of oil
and gas sources involves both State Implementation Plan (SIP) requirements that apply
in the DMNFR and state-only requirements that apply state-wide. In addition, evidence
in the rulemaking record supports the conclusion that the rules can be implemented




                                                                                      510
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

effectively. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the rules are technologically
feasible and cost-effective.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, CRS, et seq. (Act),
specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and
that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article 7. The Act
broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the atmosphere
(and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and provides the
Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants.

Section 105(1)(a)(I) directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP)
to attain the NAAQS. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in
developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of
regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also
authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the
entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6)
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and (3) of the
Act authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical
air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources, emission control
regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, and emissions control
regulations pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum products and other
VOCs. § 25-7-109(2)(c), in particular, provides broad authority to regulate
hydrocarbons. § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to adopt emission control
regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from
oil and gas operations.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes technological and scientific rational for the adoption
of the revisions. The Commission adopts revisions to Regulation Number 7 to address


                                                                                           511
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

hydrocarbon emissions from oil and gas operations, including well production facilities
and natural gas compressor stations. The Commission expands the inspection and
enhanced response program for pneumatic controllers it adopted in 2017 for pneumatic
controllers in the DMNFR to a state-wide applicability. The Commission adopts a new,
innovative performance based program to reduce emissions from the downstream
transmission segment.

The Commission is replacing the system-wide condensate storage tank control strategy
in the SIP with a more straight-forward storage tank control threshold. The Commission
is also seeking to reduce emissions from storage tank measurement and sampling and
loadout activities, and to minimize fugitive emissions from leaking components at
natural gas compressor stations and well production facilities. Further, the Commission
is expanding the requirement to employ best management practices to minimize
emissions at oil and gas wells during well plugging activities. The Commission is also
establishing an annual emissions inventory report that oil and gas operators will submit
to the Division, which will ensure accountability and assist the Commission in
understanding the emissions of methane, ethane, VOC, CO, and NOx associated with
different activities and equipment in oil and gas operations. The Commission believes
that this combination of revisions is appropriate as a first step in minimizing emissions
from oil and gas operations and continuing to make progress towards attainment of the
ozone NAAQS.

The Commission is revising Regulation Number 7 to include provisions in the SIP that
require the implementation of RACT for major sources (> 50 tpy NOx and/or VOC)
including expanding existing requirements, incorporating federal requirements, including
categorical RACT requirements, and requiring the submission of RACT analyses.

The Commission is also updating requirements for gasoline transport trucks, bulk
terminals, and service stations to align with current federal requirements in a SIP clean-
up effort.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.




                                                                                       512
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Reorganization

Over the years, Regulation Number 7 has grown. In an effort to facilitate readability, and
to better allow the regulated community to identify and understand the provisions
governing their activities, the Division is proposing a full reorganization of Regulation
Number 7 into parts. A table identifying the new section(s) along with the prior
section/location is shown. This Statement of Basis and Purpose will refer to the
reorganized section numbers in the discussion of revisions and new provisions.




Reorganized Regulation Number 7               Regulation Number 7 Section (as of
Section                                       11/15/2018)

Part A

Part A, Section I.                            I. Applicability

Part A, Section II.                           II. General Provisions

Part A, Appendix A                            Appendix A. Colorado Ozone Nonattainment
                                              or Attainment Maintenance Areas




Part B

Part B, Section I.                            III. General Requirements for Storage and
                                              Transfer of Volatile Organic Compounds

Part B, Section II.                           IV. Storage of Highly Volatile Organic
                                              Compounds




                                                                                            513
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission


Part B

Part B, Section III.             V. Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds

Part B, Section IV.              VI. Storage and Transfer of Petroleum
                                 Liquids

Part B, Section V.               VII. Crude Oil

Part B, Section VI.              VIII. Petroleum Processing and Refining

Part B, Section VII.             XV. Control of Volatile Organic Compound
                                 Leaks from Vapor Collection Systems and
                                 Vapor Control Systems Located at Gasoline
                                 Terminals, Gasoline Bulk Plants, and
                                 Gasoline Dispensing Facilities

Part B, Appendix B               Appendix B. Criteria for Control of Vapors
                                 from Gasoline Transfer to Storage Tanks

Part B, Appendix C               Appendix C. Criteria for Control of Vapors
                                 from Gasoline Transfer at Bulk Plants (Vapor
                                 Balance System)

                                 Appendix E – deleted, paragraphs B and E
                                 moved into section, and references replaced
                                 with EPA Method 27




                                                                           514
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




Part C

Part C, Section I.               IX. Surface Coating Operations

Part C, Section II.              X. Use of Cleaning Solvents

Part C, Section III.             XI. Use of Cutback Asphalt

Part C, Section IV.              XIII. Graphic Arts and Printing

Part C, Section V.               XIV. Pharmaceutical Synthesis

Part C, Appendix D               Appendix D. Minimum Cooling Capacities
                                 for Refrigerated Freeboard Chillers on Vapor
                                 Degreasers

Part C, Appendix E               Appendix F. Emission Limit Conversion
                                 Procedure




                                                                         515
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




Part D

Part D, Section I.                            XII. Volatile Organic Compound Emissions
                                              from Oil and Gas Operations

Part D, Section II.                           XVII. (State Only, except Section
                                              XVII.E.3.a., which was submitted as part of
                                              the Regional Haze SIP) Statewide Controls
                                              for Oil and Gas Operations and Natural Gas-
                                              Fired Reciprocating Internal Combustion
                                              Engines

Part D, Section III.                          XVIII. (State Only) Natural Gas-Actuated
                                              Pneumatic Controllers Associated with Oil
                                              and Gas Operations

Part D, Section IV. (State Only) Control of   NEW
emissions from the transmission and
storage segment

Part D, Section V. (State Only) Oil and       NEW
Natural Gas Operations Emissions
Inventory




                                                                                      516
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




Part E

Part E, Section I.                          XVI.A.-C. (natural gas fired reciprocating
                                            internal combustion engines in the 8-hour
                                            ozone control area) and XVII.E. (new,
                                            modified, existing, and relocated natural gas
                                            fired reciprocating internal combustion
                                            engines)

Part E, Section II.                         XVI.D. Control of Emissions from Stationary
                                            and Portable Combustion Equipment in the
                                            8-Hour Ozone Control Area

Part E, Section III.                        XIX. Control of Emissions from Specific
                                            Major Sources of VOC and/or NOx in the 8-
                                            Hour Ozone Control Area

Part E, Section IV.                         XX. Control of Emissions from Breweries in
                                            the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area




Part F

                                            XXI. Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory
                                            Authority and Purpose

State Implementation Plan Revisions (Part D, Section I. (formerly Section XII.))

The Commission adopted several revisions to the SIP provisions that were previously
found in Section XII. While not strictly necessary to comply with a particular CAA
requirement pertaining to ozone, the revisions implement the mandate of SB 19-181,
strengthen Colorado’s Ozone SIP, and will achieve further reductions in ozone
precursors and other hydrocarbons.


                                                                                      517
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Applicability (Section I.A)

The Commission revised the applicability language of Part D, Section I. to clarify that all
oil and gas operations at and upstream of the natural gas processing plant are subject
to the provisions of Section I., as more specifically set forth in Sections I.A through L.
The Commission also revised the applicability to ensure that storage tanks containing
hydrocarbon liquids (e.g., condensate, crude oil) and produced water are subject to the
provisions of Section I., which previously applied only to condensate storage tanks.

Further, under previous provisions, owners and operators of condensate storage tanks
for which the APENs reflecting emissions from all operations were 30 tpy VOC or less
were exempted from Section I. Given the challenges with attaining the ozone NAAQS,
the number of tanks that were exempt under this provision, and the need for further
reducing emissions from those tanks, the Commission removed this exemption.

However, the Commission retained the exemption from the system-wide control strategy
in Section I.I. (formerly Section XII.I.) for owners or operators of natural gas compressor
stations that do not also own or operator exploration and production facilities and the
exemption in Section I.G. (formerly XII.G.) for owners or operators of natural gas
processing plants. Owners or operators of these facilities must continue to control
condensate storage tanks as specified in Sections I.I. and I.G. By retaining these
exemptions, the Commission does not intend to exempt these facilities from any
applicable requirements in Part D, Section II.

Storage Tank Controls (Section I.D)

In 2004, the Commission adopted the initial system-wide control strategy, which
required operators to reduce emissions from their system of condensate tanks. The
“system” was comprised of condensate tanks with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions
equal to or greater than 2 tpy, and allowed operators to decide which tanks to control so
long as emissions from the “system” were reduced by specified percentages. The
system-wide control strategy involved complicated and often times confusing
recordkeeping and reporting. Further, the system-wide control strategy had the
unintended impact of disincentivizing operators to build new facilities without storage
tanks (a real emissions benefit), because operators could not take credit for the


                                                                                          518
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

production at tankless facilities in their “system.” As a result, the Commission replaced
the system-wide control strategy with a straightforward control threshold. Operators in
the 8-hour Ozone Control Area will have until May 1, 2020, (prior to summer ozone
season 2020) to install controls on storage tanks with uncontrolled actual VOC
emissions equal to or greater than 2 tpy. Only the requirements for storage tanks with
uncontrolled actual VOC emissions equal to or greater than 4 tpy are included in the
SIP, while the requirements for the storage tanks between 2 and 4 tpy will remain state-
only. This provision expands the control requirements to crude oil and produced water
tanks, and will result in several hundred more tanks being controlled. The Commission
has reviewed the evidence and has determined that the 4 tpy SIP threshold and
implementation timetable is cost-effective, technically feasible, and will ensure no
backsliding as provided for in the Clean Air Act, Section 110(l). In Sections I.D.3.b.(v)
and I.D.3.b.(vi)., the Commission has required that storage tanks below the 2 tpy
threshold that increase emissions above the threshold must be in compliance with 60
days of the first date of the month after which the threshold was exceeded. As a result, if
a storage tank exceeds the 2 tpy threshold in September 2020, based on a rolling
twelve-month total (i.e., October 2019-September 2020), the tank must have controls
installed and operating within 60 days of October 1, 2020. These provisions will not only
minimize emissions from storage tanks but will ensure clarity in the applicability of
control requirements and will assist Colorado in making additional progress towards
attainment of the ozone NAAQS.

The Commission has also determined that storage tanks that cannot install controls by
the applicable compliance date may shut-in all wells producing to the applicable storage
tanks, so long as production from any well producing into the storage tank is not
resumed until controls are installed. It is the Commission’s intent that this allowance not
apply unless the operator shuts in all wells feeding in to the storage tank/battery
requiring controls. This will avoid the need for operators to install control equipment
when wells are shut-in and where the operator may determine not to return those wells
to production. Further, the Commission intends that the Division will work with operators
in the DMNFR to allow for appropriate time to conduct design analyses to comply with




                                                                                          519
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Sections I.C.1.b. and II.C.2.a., as long as operators install required controls by May 1,
2020, and are pursuing compliance with reasonable diligence.

The Commission has also included in the SIP in Sections I.D.2.a. and II.C.1.b.(ii) the
existing requirements (formerly Sections XII.D.1. and XVII.C.1.c.) that operators of
newly constructed tanks employ controls during the first 90 days after the date of first
production (this provision was previously designated state-only). However, these
revisions to Regulation Number 7, in conjunction with revisions to Regulation Number 3,
use the term “commencement of operation” instead of “date of first production.” This SIP
revision is not part of Colorado’s ozone attainment requirements but is directed at
making this requirement enforceable by the EPA and members of the public under the
CAA. While the Commission does not believe inclusion of this provision in the SIP was
required for compliance with Colorado’s permitting program in Regulation Number 3
with CAA requirements, including ozone nonattainment area requirements, pursuant to
§ 25-7-105.1(1), CRS, including this provision in the SIP will avoid confusion as to
whether compliance with this requirement can be considered a limitation upon a
source’s potential to emit for purpose of permitting.

Storage Tank Monitoring (Section I.E)

The Commission revised Section I.E. to apply the monitoring requirements to all storage
tanks controlled pursuant to Section I.D., which will ensure monitoring not only of
condensate tanks, but also of crude oil and produced water tanks on a weekly basis.
The required inspections have also been updated to include common-sense elements
that can have a real impact on performance of well production facility equipment and
can reduce emissions. For example, checking that burner trays are not visibly clogged
can improve the performance of air pollution control equipment. The Commission does
not intend that operators should shut-in the combustor for the sole purpose of
performing this inspection to observe the burner tray, and need only inspect those
portions of burner trays that are visible without shutting in. The Commission also
adopted into Section I.E. requirements that previously existed in Section II. (formerly
Section XVII.) to check that pressure relief valves are properly seated and that vent
lines are closed. Similarly, to the inspection in Section II.C.1.d.(i), operators are not



                                                                                            520
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

expected to disassemble or otherwise manipulate the pressure relief valve to complete
the inspection, unless the visual observation of the valve reveals it is unseated and
corrective action needs to be taken. Further, the Commission does not expect operators
to climb on top of a tank to observe the pressure relief valve. However, operators are
expected to use an available catwalk or similar permanent access to ensure the best
opportunity for inspection, except when a catwalk is not accessible due to a safety
hazard.

The Commission has removed references to recordkeeping from Section I.E. and has
attempted to condense all recordkeeping requirements in Section I.F. For example,
Section I.E.2.c.(iv) no longer provides that operators must “check for and document” the
inspection; instead, Section I.E.2.c. requires operators to “check”, and the requirement
to “document” the inspection is found in Section I.F.2.c.

Recordkeeping and Reporting (Section I.F)

As a result of replacing the system-wide control strategy with the fixed control threshold,
the Commission revised the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for
demonstrating compliance with Section I.D. Operators subject to the system-wide
control strategy will still be required to submit an annual report for calendar year 2019
by the same deadline of April 30, 2020, and are given until August 31, 2020, to submit
the report for the time period in 2020 during which the system-wide control strategy
remains effective (i.e. January 1 – April 30, 2020). In Sections I.F.2. and I.F.3., the
Commission has created a new recordkeeping and reporting scheme for the tanks
subject to the new control threshold provisions. The Commission has largely maintained
the same recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the monitoring provisions in
Section I.E. However, the Commission streamlined the new storage tank recordkeeping
and reporting requirements, which are included in the SIP for storage tanks at or above
the 4 tpy threshold, but are included on a state-only basis for the storage tanks between
2 and 4 tpy.

Miscellaneous

The Commission adopted revisions to definitions (Section I.B.) and the general
provisions (Section I.C.). A new definition for “commencement of operation” was added


                                                                                          521
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

for consistency with Regulation Number 3 and for clarity as to the applicability of other
control requirements (previous versions of Regulation Number 7 were tied to the “date
of first production,” which was not implemented consistently amongst operators). The
Commission adopted the term “date of first production” in 2014 with the intent that it
coincides with the date reported to the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission
(COGCC) on COGCC Form 5A. Through implementation of the 2014 revisions,
differences between the Commission’s and the COGCC’s use of the term were realized.
Therefore, the Commission has replaced “date of first production” with the more clearly
defined “commencement of operation” term.

The Commission also adopted new definitions for “hydrocarbon liquid,” “produced
water,” “storage tank,” and “storage vessel” to ensure consistency with the state-only
program in Part D, Section II. The definition of “storage tank” referred to the federal
definition of “storage vessel” and, therefore, captured crude oil and produced water
tanks, in addition to condensate tanks. The federal definition has now been included as
a standalone definition of “storage vessel.”

The Commission also revised Section I.C.1.b. to reflect that Section I. now applies to oil
and gas operations collecting, storing, processing, and handling hydrocarbon liquids
and produced water, not just condensate. The Commission replaced the term “leakage”
with the term “emission” in order to be consistent with the Common Provisions definition
of “emission.” The Commission does not intend this latter revision to reflect a change in
the meaning or applicability of Section I.C.1.b. (or Section II.B.1.a., where this revision
is also made), but only to improve clarity.

The Commission revised Section I.C.2., which specifies how operators must calculate
emissions and emission reductions for purposes of demonstrating compliance with the
control requirements. These revisions expand the current provisions to storage tanks
storing hydrocarbon liquids other than condensate and to storage tanks storing
produced water. For crude oil tanks and produced water tanks, operators will need to
refer to default emission factors as established and updated by the Division. See, e.g.
PS Memo 14-03, Oil & Gas Industry Crude Oil, Condensate and Produced Water




                                                                                          522
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Atmospheric Condensate Storage Tanks, Regulatory Definitions and Permitting
Guidance for General Permit GP08.

The Commission has not substantively revised the LDAR SIP provisions of Section I.L.
but clarified that applicability is based on emissions on a rolling twelve-month basis, not
a calendar year basis. Such was the Commission’s intention in adopting the program in
2017.

The Commission has also determined to incorporate Section II.F. (formerly Section
XVII.G.) into the SIP. This provision requires control of emissions coming off a separator
after a well is newly constructed, hydraulically fractured, or recompleted. These
emissions must be routed to a gas gathering line or controlled by air pollution control
equipment. This SIP revision is not part of Colorado’s ozone attainment compliance
requirements, but is directed at clarifying that this requirement is enforceable by the
EPA and members of the public under the CAA. Including this provision in the SIP will
avoid confusion as to whether compliance with this requirement can be considered a
limitation upon a source’s potential to emit for purposes of permitting. See Section 25-7-
105.1(1), CRS.

State-wide, State-Only Revisions (Part D, Section II. (formerly Section XVII.))

In Part D, Section II., the Commission adopted several revisions to begin its
implementation of SB 19-181. These revisions further support existing control
requirements and also seek reductions from previously unregulated emissions activities
(e.g., gauging and loadout).

Storage Tank Controls, Monitoring, Recordkeeping, and Reporting (Sections II.C.1.c.,
II.C.1.d., II.C.2.b. and II.C.3.)

Since 2011, Colorado has made significant progress in reducing emissions from storage
tanks. However, storage tanks remain the largest source not only of oil and gas VOC
emissions, but of all anthropogenic VOC emission sources in the state (per the 2017
nonattainment area emissions inventory in the Moderate area ozone nonattainment
SIP). The Commission has determined that it is cost effective and technically feasible to
lower the control threshold from 6 tpy VOC (as established in 2014) to 2 tpy VOC.



                                                                                          523
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

However, the Commission does not want to facilitate or encourage the use of
supplemental fuel to operate control equipment, and understands that this can
occasionally be an issue on the West Slope, in particular, where the facilities have lower
pressure. The Commission has therefore adopted a provision that allows operators to
seek from the Division an exception to controlling tanks between 2 and 6 tpy VOC under
these circumstances. Exceptions should be sought prior to compliance deadlines, and
will be effective upon submittal unless and until the Division determines an exception is
not appropriate. Storage tanks constructed on or after March 1, 2020, must have
controls upon commencement of operation, ensuring reductions during the 2020
summer ozone season. Storage tanks outside the nonattainment area constructed prior
to March 1, 2020, must be in compliance by May 1, 2021. The Commission determined
it was appropriate to give tanks outside the nonattainment area between 2 and 6 tpy
VOC extra time to install controls. The Commission does not intend to give extra time to
storage tanks with air pollution control equipment already installed, even where controls
are not currently required by Regulation Number 7 (e.g., where an operator has
submitted an APEN claiming controls).

The Commission revised the approved instrument monitoring method (AIMM) schedule
for inspections of controlled storage tanks to align with the Commission’s revision of the
LDAR inspection frequencies in response to SB 19-181, discussed further. The
Commission adopted a semi-annual frequency for storage tanks with emissions greater
than or equal to 2 tpy and less than or equal to 12 tpy. For storage tanks with emissions
greater than or equal to 6 tpy and less than or equal to 12 tpy, this is an increase in
inspection frequency from annual to semi-annual. Where the Commission specifies that
semi-annual monitoring must “begin” in a certain year, the Commission intends that
there be at least two AIMM inspections during that year. The Commission also removed
the phase-in schedule for storage tanks inspections (within 90 days of January 1, 2016
for storage tanks ≥ 6 and within 30 days for storage tanks > 50 tpy) as those schedules
have passed. The Commission updated the recordkeeping requirements for AIMM
inspections to be consistent with the LDAR recordkeeping in Section II.E. Records of
AIMM inspections under Sections II.C. and II.E. may be maintained together, and need
not be kept separately.


                                                                                          524
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has also strengthened monitoring requirements for storage tanks and
associated equipment. In Section II.C.1.d., the Commission has determined that it is
cost effective and feasible, while already on-site for visual inspection, to check the dump
valve on the separator to ensure that it is not stuck open or visibly clogged. The
Commission does not intend that operators will need to manipulate equipment or stay
on-site for the purpose of observing actuation of the dump valve for purposes of this
inspection requirement. The Commission has also determined that excess liquids in the
vapor lines can cause a multitude of problems, including over pressurization of the
tanks or smoking flares. Therefore, the Commission is directing operators to check
liquid knockout vessels, when present, unless the vessel is set up to drain automatically,
and to drain liquids if above the low-level indication point. If the knockout vessel is not
equipped with a liquid level indicator, operators can comply with this requirement by
draining the knockout vessel during the inspection. Further, for underground lines and
above-ground lines where no knockout vessel is used, operators should establish a
procedure by which they evaluate for the presence of liquids in the vapor lines, and
drain as necessary. Appropriate operating and maintenance program documents should
set forth this procedure so as to provide clarity on how an operator determines draining
is necessary. These actions can be taken while the operator is already on-site for the
inspections previously required, are consistent with actions the Commission generally
understands operators are already taking in the field and therefore, the Commission
does not expect these actions to create additional burden.

The LDAR program in Section II.E. (formerly Section XVII.F.) has required remonitoring
following repair of a leak (as has Section I.L.). However, Section II.C. did not include an
explicit remonitoring requirement following actions taken to address venting from
storage tanks. Operators must now confirm that actions taken to address venting were
effective through remonitoring. This confirmation must be made within 24 hours of the
action taken to address the venting. This requirement does not reflect a timeframe in
which the operator may address the venting without incurring liability for the violation.
There is currently no regulatory period in which venting will not be considered a violation
of Section II.C.2.a., unless the venting is reasonably necessary for one of the reasons
expressly contemplated by Section II.C.2.a. Only where the initial emissions observation


                                                                                         525
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

was observed through AIMM does the success of the response action need to be
verified through AIMM. However, the Commission believes that if the venting was found
with an IR camera and was addressed while the IR camera operator was on-site, then
there is little to no burden to use the IR camera to confirm, for example, an effective
seating of the thief hatch upon closure. In Section II.C.3.f., the Commission has
established supplemental recordkeeping requirements when venting is observed and
addressed.

In Section II.C.3.d., the Commission has strengthened recordkeeping requirements of
inspections under Section II.C.1. These recordkeeping requirements are consistent with
the recordkeeping required in Section I.F. (formerly Section XII.F.). The Commission has
maintained the exemption from recordkeeping under Section II.C.3.b., for instances
where venting is reasonably necessary for maintenance, gauging (unless a storage tank
measurement system is required under and the operator complies with Section II.C.4.),
or safety of personnel and equipment. However, the Commission expects that the
emissions associated with these venting events will be reported in the annual emissions
inventory.

Storage Tank Measurement Systems (Section II.C.4.)

Historically, operators have needed – for operational purposes – to open the thief hatch
on storage tanks in order to sample and measure the level of the liquid to be sold (i.e.,
to determine quality and quantity). Technology has advanced over the past few years,
including, without limitation, the use of Lease Automatic Custody Transfer (LACT) units,
automated tank gauges, and the development of API 18.2 (Custody Transfer of Crude
Oil from Lease Tanks Using Alternative Measurement Methods), which allow for the
sampling and measurement of liquids without opening the thief hatch. It is the
Commission’s intention that owners and operators of facilities and tanks constructed
after the deadlines in new Section II.C.4. must measure the level of the liquid (e.g., use
tank level sensors) and sample the liquids (e.g., check for temperature, BS&W, and
other indicia of merchantability) without opening the thief hatch. These storage tank
measurement systems can be employed at facilities with and without automation.




                                                                                          526
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Further, a significant number of operators have already deployed such systems at large
and small facilities in the DJ Basin, in some cases voluntarily and in some cases as
required pursuant to a Consent Decree or Compliance Order on Consent. The
Commission notes that a storage tank management system may be different for tanks
where liquids are both sampled and measured than for tanks where liquids are not
sampled. For example, Commission understands that some produced water tanks are
not sampled for quality, and therefore do not need to have equipment to allow for the
sampling of the liquids without opening of the thief hatch.

Therefore, the Commission adopted a requirement to employ storage tank
measurement systems to determine the quantity of the liquid at well production facilities,
natural gas compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants constructed on or
after May 1, 2020. Any such facilities that are constructed after January 1, 2021, must
have storage tank management systems in place that determine both the quality and
the quantity of the liquid. This requirement also applies to storage tanks at existing well
production facilities, natural gas compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants
that are modified by adding storage tanks. When operators add new storage vessels to
existing facilities (e.g., to add capacity because production or throughput is expected to
increase), they must outfit the new storage vessels and retrofit the existing vessels in
the same battery with a storage tank management system. However, the ability to
retrofit an existing battery may not exist, and is therefore not required, where a single
storage tank is replaced due to maintenance concerns or where a tank is installed to
provide extra head space in the vapor control system, but no production increase is
associated with the installation.

The Commission has adopted minimal recordkeeping provisions for this requirement,
including a description of the storage tank measurement system and records of the
annual training program. The description must be sufficiently detailed to enable the
Division to determine whether the operator is in compliance (e.g., sampling the liquids
without opening the thief hatch). If an operator relies on a third party (e.g., hauler) to
perform the gauging activities, those operators will need to work with the haulers to
facilitate the training that will familiarize haulers with this new requirement.



                                                                                             527
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has also adopted a requirement to allow for periodic calibration and
testing of the storage tank measurement system. The Commission recognizes that while
the Bureau of Land Management expressly allows for automatic tank gauging (see e.g.
42 C.F.R. Section 3174.3(33), incorporating by reference API 18.2), it can be necessary
to test and calibrate the automatic tank gauging system. See 42 C.F.R. Section
3174.6(b)(5)(ii)(B). It is not the Commission’s intent to adopt requirements at odds with
the Bureau of Land Management. Further, some manufacturers may recommend
inspection, testing, or calibration more frequently than specified by the Commission; the
Commission intends to allow for those maintenance procedures, as reasonably
necessary (i.e., the exception should not render ineffective the Commission’s intent that
thief hatches remain closed during the sampling and measurement process). Operators
that perform maintenance procedures more frequently than semi-annually need to
document the manufacturer’s recommendation for the increased frequency and provide
those materials to the Division upon request.

Hydrocarbon Liquids Loadout (Section II.C.5)

In Section II.C.5., the Commission has adopted new requirements to control or avoid
emissions associated with the unloading of hydrocarbon liquids into transport vehicles
(e.g., trucks). These requirements do not apply to produced water loadout. The
Commission has determined to prohibit the venting of hydrocarbons during loadout
activities, because the venting is not reasonably necessary within the meaning of
Section II.C.2.a.; however, the Commission notes that some thief hatches may be
“open” during loadout but are not emitting and are instead operating only as vacuum
relief for the storage tank. An “open” pressure relief device that does not emit, but
instead creates a vacuum, would not be a violation of the prohibition on venting during
loadout, though the burden will remain on operators to demonstrate that any open
pressure relief devices are not venting.

These requirements will apply to well production facilities, natural gas compressor
stations, and natural gas processing plants constructed before and after May 1, 2020,
with annual hydrocarbon liquid loadout throughput equal to or greater than 5,000 barrels
per year, on a 12-month rolling basis. Throughput is based on the throughput of liquids



                                                                                        528
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

loaded out to transport vehicles and does not include liquids loaded out to pipeline.
Facilities constructed after May 1, 2020, must control emissions from loadout upon
commencement of operation if they anticipate having a loadout throughput over 5,000
barrels per year. Facilities that are modified (e.g., new well drilled, well re-fracked or
recompleted) that expect to have throughput over 5,000 barrels per year must also
control loadout operations upon commencement of operation following the modification.
Facilities that increase throughput such that loadout throughput reaches 5,000 barrels
must control the emissions from loadout upon reaching 5,000 barrels. The Commission
does not intend that operators may loadout more than 4,999 barrels of hydrocarbon
liquids without controls. Thus, if an operator currently loads out to pipeline, and is not
subject to this requirement, but the pipeline becomes unavailable (e.g., due to
maintenance, whether scheduled or unscheduled) and the operator has 6,000 barrels
stored in tanks, the operator must control the emissions from the loadout to transport
vehicles or wait to loadout to transport vehicles until it can arrange for controls.

The Commission recognizes that compliance may be more cost effective at newly
constructed facilities for several reasons. Operators may account for the vapors
associated with loadout in the initial evaluation of air pollution control equipment
required. Operators may also design the facility to make compliance easier, with both
these requirements and Section II.C.4. However, the Commission has determined that it
is also cost-effective and technically feasible to retrofit existing facilities to control
loadout emissions. Operators using air pollution control equipment to control loadout
emissions must also comply with other Regulation Number 7 requirements applicable to
air pollution control equipment (e.g., inspections, recordkeeping). Further, if operators
employ vapor collection and return systems, operators should include this vapor source
in the engineering evaluation of their storage tanks and vapor control systems to avoid
over-pressurizing the tanks.

The Commission has also established additional requirements to ensure the effective
control of loadout emissions, including many requirements that the Division has
previously established as permit RACT (under Regulation Number 3 and not as
categorical RACT used for ozone SIP purposes) in loadout permits. The Commission
determined that observation of and/or training and signage related to the loadout


                                                                                             529
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

process by operators will help ensure that new staff and third parties are effectively
implementing these requirements. The Commission directed the Division to develop a
template and/or guidance regarding expectations for signage. However, if tanks are
loaded out less frequently than monthly, the observation needs to take place during
loadout when it does occur, unless observation is not feasible. If observation is not
feasible (e.g., the operator did not receive notice of the loadout, which occurred during
the middle of the night when no operator personnel was on site), the operator must
inspect the facility within 24 hours to ensure that loadout equipment was properly stored
and that thief hatches were closed. The Commission encourages the Division to work
with operators to better understand when observation is, or is not, feasible.

Leak Detection and Repair (Section II.E)

In SB 19-181, the Legislature directed the Commission to minimize emissions from the
oil and gas sector, including the gathering and boosting segment (i.e., compression). In
conjunction with this directive, SB 19-181 further instructed the Commission to consider
semi-annual monitoring for leaks at well production facilities. Therefore, the Commission
has revised the LDAR program of Section II.E. (formerly Section XVII.F.) to increase the
frequency of approved instrument monitoring method (AIMM) inspections to semi-
annual at compressor stations with emissions between 0 and 12 tpy VOC and at well
production facilities with emissions between 2 and 12 tpy VOC. Phase-in of these new
inspections begins in 2020, and the Commission expects that operators will conduct the
first semi-annual inspection prior to the start of the summer ozone season (i.e., May 1,
2020). Current requirements in place for larger facilities to inspect on a more frequent
basis remain unchanged.

The Commission adopted a proposal to require enhanced leak detection and repair
requirements for facilities within 1,000 feet of an occupied structure. The commission
also directed the Division to work on a proposal that would speed up repair times in
these areas and bring forward for the Commission’s consideration in a future
rulemaking hearing as soon as possible.

There are no other substantive changes to the existing LDAR program.




                                                                                         530
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Emissions Associated with Well Maintenance, Unloading, and Plugging Activities
(Section II.G)

In 2014, the Commission adopted a requirement that operators use best management
practices (BMPs) to minimize hydrocarbon emissions and the need for well venting
associated with well liquids unloading and well maintenance. The Commission is
replacing the term “venting” with “emissions” or “emitting” to ensure consistency with the
Common Provisions definition of “emission” and to avoid any confusion with the new
definition of “venting” that was added to Section II.C.2.a.(i) (formerly Section
XVII.C.2.a.(i)) in 2017, though no change in meaning or applicability is intended. The
Commission has determined that BMPs should also be employed to reduce emissions
from the well associated with well plugging activities. These activities have been
increasing in frequency in the DMNFR in recent years, and the Commission finds that
BMPs are a cost-effective and flexible proactive strategy to address this emerging
emissions source. BMPs include both practices that reduce the need for well liquids
unloading or well maintenance activities and practices that reduce or control emissions
resulting from the well maintenance, well liquids unloading, and well plugging activities.

The Commission has also clarified and strengthened the recordkeeping and reporting
requirements associated with the well emissions and BMPs. The inventories that will be
required to demonstrate attainment with the ozone NAAQS in future SIPs necessitate
detailed information on the emissions associated with these activities. Further,
understanding BMPs employed to reduce or eliminate these emissions will assist the
Commission in developing both voluntary and regulatory strategies to make further
progress towards attainment. In an effort to minimize duplication with the new emissions
inventory in Section V., the Commission intends that all information associated with
activities covered by this Section II.G. will be reported on a separate form and not as
part of the Section V. inventory. While recordkeeping is to begin in July 2020, the
Commission understands that current methods of reporting emissions from these
activities may need to be updated or improved in the future, and the Commission directs
the Division to work with stakeholders to update emission factors and/or calculation
methods as necessary.



                                                                                          531
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Miscellaneous

Section II.C.2.a. prohibits the venting of hydrocarbons, unless reasonably required for
maintenance, gauging, or safety. The Commission now clarifies that venting during
gauging is expressly prohibited under this requirement where a storage tank
measurement system is required under Section II.C.4. If Section II.C.4. allows for the
opening of the thief hatch, that activity will not be considered venting within the meaning
of Section II.C.2.a.

The Commission has revised Section II.C.2.b.(i), to reflect its intention in adopting the
STEM provisions in 2014. The Commission intended in 2014, and specifically noted in
the Statement of Basis and Purpose at that time, that STEM plans should include an
analysis of the engineering design of the storage tank and associated air pollution
control equipment (i.e., the vapor control system) to ensure that storage tanks are not
over pressurized, causing excess emissions. The Commission believes that operators
now largely understand and comply with this requirement, but has clarified the language
in the rule itself principally to aid operators that may be new to the control program as a
result of the new, lower control threshold. The Commission notes that this requirement
does not require that operators maintain a site-specific design analysis for each facility.
Worst-case design analyses or like-kind design analyses for similarly configured
facilities may be utilized; however, the burden remains with the operator to show that
the design analysis provided for the facility demonstrates adequacy of design.

Further, the Commission acknowledges that closed-loop tank pressure control systems
designed to maintain tank pressures below a specified point can be, if designed and
operated property, indicative of adequate design. The Commission also acknowledges
that design analyses do not need to be maintained within the STEM plan itself, so long
as the STEM plan contains a description of the design analysis method employed and
specifies the name and location of the design analysis for each facility covered by that
STEM plan.

Pneumatic Controllers (Part D, Section III.)

SB 19-181 also directed the Commission to consider a requirement to reduce emissions
from pneumatic devices. In the 2017 emissions inventory for the Moderate area ozone


                                                                                        532
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

nonattainment SIP, pneumatic devices were identified as the second largest oil and gas
area source (after tanks). In 2017, the Commission convened the Statewide
Hydrocarbon Emission Reduction (SHER) team, to consider measures – both regulatory
and voluntary – to reduce hydrocarbon emissions from the oil and gas sector. The
Commission, at the same time, also established the Pneumatic Controller Task Force
(PCTF), with a mission to collect and review data about pneumatic controllers and
identify ways to reduce emissions from that equipment. After almost two years of work,
the SHER team developed an early recommendation concerning pneumatic controllers,
which the Commission has now adopted.

The SHER team supported a three-prong approach. First, the expansion of the
pneumatic controller inspection and enhanced response program state-wide. Second,
the SHER team recommended including language in this Statement of Basis and
Purpose, directing the continued work to evaluate the use of zero-bleed pneumatic
devices. Third, the SHER team supported a compliance assistance approach for
operators outside the nonattainment area, while those operators get up to speed on the
pneumatic controller inspection and enhanced response program that has been
implemented in the nonattainment area since 2018.

The Commission approves of this approach and commends both the SHER team and
PCTF for their work since 2017, building the knowledge that informed provisions of this
rulemaking. The Commission has therefore expanded the pneumatic controller
inspection and enhanced response program state-wide. At the same time, the
Commission recognizes that there is much to learn about the inspection and
maintenance of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers outside the nonattainment
area, which highlights the need for enforcement discretion. The Commission intends
that for operations outside the nonattainment area, the determination of whether a
pneumatic controller is operating properly will be made by the owner or operator, with
minimal oversight by the Division for the first year of implementation.

The Commission further directs the SHER team and PCTF to continue their work on the
mandates established in 2017, and to bring back to the Commission in 2020 their
recommendations on the use of zero-bleed pneumatic devices. Specifically, the



                                                                                     533
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission continues to direct the PCTF to make recommendations on its findings in a
report to the Commission in May 2020. However, the Commission revises its directive to
the SHER team to present recommendations by no later than January 2020, to by no
later than July 2020. This revised timeline will provide additional time for the SHER team
to make any additional recommendations on cost-effective hydrocarbon emission
reduction strategies evaluated by the SHER team. The Commission anticipates that the
SHER team will also evaluate continuous methane emission monitoring and engage in
discussions to determine actual leak rate percentages of components at oil and gas
facilities for use in future rulemakings.

Downstream transmission (Part D, Section IV.)

SB 19-181 also directed the Commission to consider adopting a requirement that
owners and operators of oil and gas transmission pipeline and compressor stations
inspect and maintain all equipment and pipelines. The Commission’s Regulation
Number 7 has not historically regulated the transmission and storage segment, which
includes pipeline, compressor stations, and other equipment transporting and storing
natural gas downstream of the natural gas processing plant and prior to the distribution
segment. Transmission pipelines, however, have been subject to federal and state
pipeline safety regulations.

To address the new directive to minimize emissions from the transmission segment, the
Commission adopted an innovative program that directs the setting of a methane
intensity target and associated programmatic framework. This approach is the second
recommendation from the SHER team, and again comes before the January 2020
deadline established by the Commission in November 2017. SHER team stakeholders
involved in developing this program include trade associations, transmission segment
operators, environmental and citizen groups, local governments, and the Division. The
Division will approve a steering committee charter that will detail the purpose,
responsibilities, and deliverables of the steering committee. The steering committee will
develop an emissions protocol detailing the calculation and reporting of VOC, CO, NOx,
ethane, and methane emissions and any associated program guidance documents or
templates by September 30, 2020, determine a segment methane emissions intensity



                                                                                      534
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

target by October 1, 2023, and certify initial target compliance based on the 2024 data.
Each owner or operator in the segment will develop a company-specific best
management practice (BMP) plan, the elements of which are enforceable by the
Division. A goal of this program is continual improvement over time through review of
BMPs, assessment of reported emissions and emissions intensity, and analysis of other
data and best practices. In furtherance of this goal, the steering committee will
periodically reassess the emissions intensity target and may consider, among other
factors, the potential to reduce emissions from events beyond the control of the owner
or operator.

The Division will provide an update on the development of the program to the
Commission in 2021 as well as periodic updates regarding the progress of the program.
The program will include a reporting element to demonstrate compliance and continual
improvement. The steering committee will develop the criteria by which the industry
participants will select a third-party contractor to collect and aggregate the company-
wide reports into the segment-wide report prior to the first report due date of September
30, 2022. The third-party contractor, with involvement from the transmission segment
owners or operators, may also provide VOC, NOx, and CO emissions data from the
annual company-wide reports to the Division related to ozone modeling as needed and
requested. Each year after the segment-wide emissions intensity target is established,
the steering committee will submit a compliance certification to the Division that the
transmission segment achieved the target. If such certification cannot be made, the
steering committee will develop a plan for the segment to achieve compliance with the
target. This plan, if needed, may include amendments to the program guidance
documents, prescriptive control requirements, or other strategies to reduce methane
emissions such that the transmission segment achieves the segment-wide emissions
intensity target.

The inventory protocol may be based on existing EPA estimation and reporting
mechanisms, specifically the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) and
the Greenhouse Gas Inventory (GHGI). The emission estimation mechanisms may be
updated as emission factors or calculation methods are revised. The inventory protocol
will include the method(s) by which the transmission segment owners or operators will


                                                                                          535
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

quantify and report emissions. The findings of the Economic Analysis of Methane
Emission Reduction Potential from Natural Gas Systems (MAC) report (May 2016),
among other data sources, may be used to develop the segment-specific methane
emission reduction goals that, when combined, will achieve the transmission segment’s
emission intensity target in a cost-effective manner.

Annual inventory (Part D, Section V)

The Commission established an annual emissions reporting requirement to regularly
update the Division’s emissions inventory for equipment and activities in oil and gas
operations. This inventory is intended to assist Colorado in ozone planning and the
creation of emission inventories for use in ozone attainment modeling, as well as to
comply with the directives in SB 19-181 to minimize emissions from the oil and gas
sector. This inventory will provide missing information about oil and gas operations and
will supplement the limited information provided on other aspects of those operations to
assist the Commission in identifying emission sources appropriate for further emission
reduction strategies.

Additionally, this inventory will also help Colorado move forward in beginning to address
the broad greenhouse gas directives in SB 19-096 (Concerning the collection of
greenhouse gas emissions data to facilitate the implementation of measures that would
most cost-effectively allow the state to meet its greenhouse gas emissions reductions
goals) and HB 19-1261 (Concerning the reduction of greenhouse gas pollution, and, in
connection therewith stablishing statewide greenhouse gas pollution reduction goals).
This inventory is separate and apart from the APEN reporting and fee structure in
Regulation Number 3, though the Commission expects that the Division, in consultation
with stakeholders, will consider ways to align the reporting programs in the future to
minimize duplication.

Operators will be required to submit a company-wide report on June 30 of each year for
the preceding year. The first report will be due on June 30, 2021, covering emissions
from July 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020. Operators are required to use the
Division-approved form. The Commission expects that the Division will consult with
stakeholders in the development of this form (or forms). The Commission understands


                                                                                         536
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

that some of the emissions source category activities and equipment are not currently
well defined, nor is there necessarily a well understood method of calculation for
emissions (e.g., downhole well maintenance). The Commission therefore directs the
Division to work with stakeholders from the adoption of this regulation throughout 2020
to, among other things: (1) appropriately define each emissions source category,
activity, and equipment; and (2) identify reasonable methods of calculation for each
emissions source category activity and equipment. For some emissions source category
activities and equipment, achieving both goals may not be realistic before
recordkeeping must begin in July 2020. Therefore, for those limited categories, the
Commission expects that the Division will identify parameters that may be reported
(e.g., frequency and duration) until such time as the category can be well defined and
an appropriate calculation method can be identified. The Commission’s intent here
applies also to the well emissions reported under Section II.G.

Operators will need to include actual emissions information for various air pollutants,
specifically methane, ethane, VOC, CO and NOx, for each emissions source category
activity and equipment, as well as company-wide. The Commission has determined that
monthly emissions information should be submitted for the summer months (May
through September), while emissions for the remaining months can be aggregated into
the annual figures. The Commission recognizes that, over time, these emissions
inventories are likely to reflect ongoing emission reductions from the industry resulting
from both the continued implementation of emission reduction strategies and the
refinement of emissions estimation techniques.

The Commission also recognizes that the emission estimation techniques used for
inventory purposes may differ from regulatory methods for calculating, recording, and
reporting emissions under the APEN and permitting program, and intends that such
differences will be considered in any enforcement matter. It is critical that these
inventories be as accurate and complete as possible, and operators are expected to
perform quality assurance on the data prior to submittal. However, these inventories will
require the submittal of a large amount of information, so operators are provided with
timeframes for correcting information found to contain substantive errors. The



                                                                                          537
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission directed the Division to report back to the Commission in 2020 regarding
the inventory and progress made.

Ozone State Implementation Plan Revisions for Serious Reclassification (Part C,
Section II.F. (new section in former Section X.; Part E, Sections II. and III. (formerly
Sections XVI.D. and XIX.)

Due to the reclassification to Serious, Colorado must submit revisions to its SIP to
address the CAA’s Serious ozone nonattainment area requirements, as set forth in CAA
Sections 172 and 182(c) and the final SIP Requirements Rule for the 2008 Ozone
NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)). A Serious SIP revision must include
provisions that require the implementation of RACT for major sources of VOC and/or
NOx (i.e., major stationary sources that emit or have the potential to emit 50 tpy or
more) and for each category of VOC sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline
(CTG) for which Colorado has sources in the DMNFR.

Therefore, to address the CAA Serious RACT SIP requirements, the Commission
adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT requirements in Colorado’s
ozone SIP for 50 tpy major sources of VOC and/or NOx (which became major sources
as of the effective date of the reclassification to Serious). The revisions include
expanding the applicability of the combustion equipment requirements, including the
combustion process adjustment requirements, in Section II. to equipment located at
facilities with NOx emissions greater than or equal to 50 tons per year; incorporating by
reference NSPS and/or NESHAP requirements for specific points at some 50 tpy major
sources in Section III.; requiring some sources submit RACT analyses to the Division in
Section III.; and a new categorical rule regarding general solvent use in Part C, Section
II.F.

Consistent with Senate Bill 19-181, House Bill 19-1261 and Senate Bill 19-096, the
Commission directs the Division to propose regulatory recommendations to the
Commission in 2020 regarding: pneumatic devices that do not vent gas; continuous
emission monitoring; alternatives to combustion for emissions control; enhanced LDAR,
especially near occupied dwellings; and other options to “minimize emissions of
methane and other hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds, and oxides of nitrogen


                                                                                           538
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

from oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities and natural gas facilities in
the processing, gathering and boosting, storage, and transmissions segments of the
natural gas supply chain,” Colo. Rev. Stat. § 25-7-109(10)(a), including “pre-production
activities, drilling, and completion,” id. § 25-7-109(10)(c).

To increase transparency and accountability, the Commission further directs that in
2020 the Division explore options for developing a publicly accessible and searchable
oil and gas complaint filing and tracking tool, and to accept public input on the
development of this tool. The Division will report back to the Commission on its progress
in 2020.

SIP Streamlining (Part B, Sections IV. and VII. (formerly Sections VI. and XV.) &
Appendices B, C, and E)

As a SIP clean-up effort, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7,
Part B, Sections IV. and VII. and removed Appendix E so the requirements align with
current EPA methods and requirements.

In 1980, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7, Section IV.
requiring an annual pressure test for gasoline transport trucks. Those requirements
were based on EPA’s Control Techniques Guidelines (CTG) Control of Volatile Organic
Compound Leaks from Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection Systems (December
1978) and included the test procedures for annual pressure and vacuum testing of
gasoline transport trucks, as outlined in Appendix E.

In 1980, the Commission also adopted Appendix B which specifies the criteria for
controlling vapors from gasoline transfer to storage tanks. Those requirements are
based on EPA’s CTG Design Criteria for Stage I Vapor Control Systems Gasoline
Service Stations (November 1975). EPA approved these provisions into Colorado’s SIP
in 1995.

Since the publication of EPA’s CTGs, EPA has published similar requirements for
gasoline transport trucks in EPA’s NSPS Subpart XX Standards of Performance for Bulk
Gasoline Terminals (40 CFR Part 60, Subpart XX (August 18, 1983, last revised
December 19, 2003)); NESHAP R National Emission Standards for Gasoline



                                                                                         539
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations) (40 CFR
Part 63 Subpart R (December 14, 1994, last revised April 6, 2006)); NESHAP Subpart
BBBBBB National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source
Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities (40
CFR Part 63, Subpart BBBBBB (January 10, 2008, last revised January 24, 2011)); and
NESHAP Subpart CCCCCC National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants
for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart
CCCCCC (January 10, 2008, last revised January 24, 2011)). These federal standards
reference EPA’s Method 27, Determination of Vapor Tightness of Gasoline Delivery Tank
Using Pressure Vacuum Test, in contrast to the CTG’s pressure-vacuum test.

The Commission adopted provisions to replace the outdated vacuum-pressure test in
Regulation Number 7 with the more current EPA Method 27. The Commission also
updated the test values in Regulation Number 7, which are based on EPA’s CTG but
also correspond to the EPA Method 27 test values in EPA’s NSPS XX, NESHAP R,
NESHAP BBBBBB, and NESHAP CCCCCC. The Commission also revised the
recordkeeping and certification requirements in Section IV. to correspond to EPA’s
Method 27 and federal standards. Lastly, the Commission clarified the requirements for
owners or operators using vapor collection systems that such systems must be leak-
tight and properly maintained and operated.

These revisions will update Colorado’s SIP and align the gasoline transport truck,
terminal, and service station control and testing requirements with current EPA NSPS
and NESHAP standards.

Miscellaneous

The Commission has also adopted revisions to provisions not discussed in detail in
order to facilitate and align the substantive revisions identified, including revisions to the
Applicability in Part A, Section I.A., and exemptions in Part A, Section II.B.

Further, these revisions will correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting
errors found within the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference



                                                                                          540
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7, Part E, Section II.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone serious
nonattainment area requirements. The Clean Air Act does not expressly address all of
the provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone
NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to satisfy
Colorado’s serious nonattainment area obligations.

The Commission also adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 that are unrelated to
the reclassification to serious to update and streamline requirements for gasoline
transport trucks, terminals, and service stations to align with current federal
requirements; therefore, these revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act or
rules thereunder. Further, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to
achieve further emission reductions in the oil and gas sector.

In accordance with §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), CRS, the Commission states the
rules in Part D, Sections II. (except II.C.1.b.(ii) and II.F.), III.F., IV., and V. of Regulation
Number 7 adopted in this rulemaking are state-only requirements and are not intended
as additions or revisions to Colorado’s SIP at this time.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:




                                                                                              541
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations in the
       oil and gas sector including storage tanks, storage tank loadout, fugitive
       emissions from components, pneumatic controllers, and downstream
       transmission operations. The proposed revisions also include an annual oil and
       gas sector emissions inventory report. NSPS OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, NSPS Kb,
       NSPS KKK, NESHAP HH, NESHAP HHH, the Greenhouse Gas Reporting
       Program (GHGRP), and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
       (PHMSA) may also apply to such oil and gas facilities and operations. The
       revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis to more storage tanks
       and fugitive emissions components then the NSPS and NESHAP and more
       facilities and operations than the GHGRP and PHMSA.

       The Commission revised Regulation Number 7 to include regulatory RACT
       requirements for Colorado’s major sources of VOC and/or NOx (> 50 tpy) in the
       SIP. Specifically, the Commission revised Regulation Number 7, Part E, Sections
       II. and III. to include categorical RACT requirements for combustion equipment at
       major sources of NOx and incorporate by reference federal standards for specific
       sources or points. MACT DDDDD, MACT JJJJJJ, MACT ZZZZ, MACT YYYY,
       NSPS GG, NSPS KKKK, NSPS IIII, and NSPS JJJJ may apply to such
       combustion equipment. However, the Regulation Number 7 revisions apply on a
       broader basis to more combustion equipment. The Commission also revised
       Regulation Number 7 to include categorical RACT requirements for general
       solvent use and is not aware of federal rules applicable to general solvent use.

(II)   The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
       largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
       EPA has provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa by
       allowing a storage vessel to avoid being subject to NSPS OOOO if the storage
       vessel is subject to any state, federal, or local requirement that brings the storage
       vessel’s emissions below the NSPS OOOO threshold. EPA has also provided
       some flexibility in NSPS OOOOa by allowing a company to apply to EPA for an
       alternative means of emission limitations for fugitive emissions components.



                                                                                         542
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. Similarly, EPA
        develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data, not
        Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s nonattainment area RACT obligations. Instead,
        Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its SIP directly, as the Commission
        has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 ozone NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower
        2015 ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the
        regulated community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower
        NAAQS insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions
        adopted by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct
        additional RACT analyses for the more stringent NAAQS. The current revisions
        also attempt to maintain the air quality in areas of Colorado currently attaining the
        NAAQS; should an area slide into nonattainment, a nonattainment area
        designation would likely result in the imposition of costlier retrofits.

(V)     EPA has established a Serious SIP-RACT implementation deadline of July 20,
        2021, for strategies not needed for any attainment demonstration. There is no
        timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Part D, Sections I. through IV. strengthen
        Colorado’s SIP state-only provisions. These sections currently address emissions
        from the oil and gas sector in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued
        growth of Colorado’s oil and gas industry. The revisions to Regulation Number 7,
        Part C, Sections II.F. recognize practices currently utilized by solvent operations.
        The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part E, Sections II. and III. are also
        specific to existing emission points at major sources of VOC and NOx, allowing
        for continued growth at Colorado’s major sources.



                                                                                           543
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Part D, Sections I. through V. establish
        reasonable equity for oil and gas owners and operators subject to these rules by
        providing the same standards for similarly situated and sized sources. The
        revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part C, Sections II. and Part E, Section II.
        similarly establish the categorical RACT requirements for similarly situated and
        sized sources.

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, or if Colorado continues to fail to
        achieve the NAAQS, EPA may promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan; thus
        potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources. This outcome may subject
        others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements. The revisions to Regulation
        Number 7 establishing an annual oil and gas inventory report are different than
        EPA’s GHGRP in that more sources will be required to report under Regulation
        Number 7. This is necessary for Colorado to better understand the oil and gas
        emission sources and the opportunities to pursue additional emission reductions.
        Newly enacted legislation in Colorado has also established a compelling reason
        to adopt the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in the
        revisions.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for storage tanks and component leaks. Other
        revisions reflect changes in industry practice, such as for solvent use. Similarly,
        the revisions concerning major sources of VOC and NOx generally reflect current
        emission controls and work practices.

(XI)    The revisions adopted will reduce significant amounts of VOC and methane,
        addressing both Colorado’s ozone problems and making strides to reduce the
        impact of climate change. As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the




                                                                                          544
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        revisions to Regulation Number 7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective
        manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, NOx, methane,
        and other hydrocarbons to address SB 19-181 and help to attain the NAAQS. SB
        19-181 specifically directs the Commission to “consider” revising its rules to
        adopt more stringent requirements related to LDAR, pneumatic devices,
        monitoring, and the transmission segment. The Commission determined that the
        Division’s proposal was reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no action
        alternative would very likely result in an unapprovable SIP.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the serious nonattainment area
requirements. However, to the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this
rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission
hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of methane, VOCs, and other hydrocarbons.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.




                                                                                          545
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Hundreds of people from across the state submitted written comments on the proposed
changes to Regulations 3 and 7. Most of these written comments called for additional
regulation of oil and gas operations, to fulfill the directives of SB 19-181, protect public
health, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Prior to the rulemaking hearing, the
Commission held public comment sessions in Rifle, Durango, and Loveland, on
December 10, 11 and 16, respectively. Dozens of members of the public spoke at each
of these sessions. Many commenters expressed support for the proposed changes to
Regulations 3 and 7, citing concerns about risks to health and to the climate from oil
and gas emissions. Many commenters at the Rifle and Durango meetings emphasized
the need for rules to be applied statewide. Commenters also called on the Commission
to develop requirements for continuous monitoring of oil and gas emissions. Some
speakers at each comment session expressed concern that the industry was being
overregulated, with some on the Western Slope emphasizing that their part of the state
was in attainment with ozone standards and expressing concerns with the impact more
stringent rules might have on the industry.

T.      September 23, 2020 (Part D, Sections II., IV., V., VI. and Part E, Section I.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act § 24-4-103(4), the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) §§
25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules.

Basis

The Commission revised Part E, Section I. to reduce emissions from natural gas fired
reciprocating internal combustion engines (RICE) greater than or equal to 1,000
horsepower (hp) on a state-wide basis. The revisions are in response to four distinct
directives to secure reductions: Senate Bill 19-181 (SB 19-181); the second
implementation period of the Regional Haze Rule pursuant to Clean Air Act Section
169A; progress towards the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard
(NAAQS) of 75 ppb and 2015 ozone NAAQS of 70 pp; and to address nitrogen
deposition at Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP).



                                                                                          546
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also revised Part D, Sections II.G., IV., and V. to include annual
reporting of carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrous oxide (N2O) and Section V. to include
additional emissions reporting from class II disposal well facilities. The Commission
adopted a new Part D, Section VI. requiring owners and operators of pre-production oil
and gas operations to monitor pollution during pre-production (i.e., drilling through
flowback) and early-production and to control emissions from pre-production tanks and
vessels (i.e., flowback vessels). Lastly, the Commission expanded the requirements in
Part D, Section II. to control emissions from hydrocarbon liquids loadout at class II
disposal well facilities. These proposed revisions are a next step in addressing the
directives of SB 19-181, SB 19-096, and HB 19-1261, building upon revisions adopted
by the Commission in December 2019.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, CRS, et seq. (Act),
specifically § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to adopt emission control regulations
to minimize emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from oil and gas
operations. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and (3) authorize the Commission to promulgate
regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for significant sources
and categories of sources; emission control regulations pertaining to NOx,
hydrocarbons, and hazardous air pollutants; and emissions control regulations
pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum products and other VOCs. § 25-7-
109(2)(c), in particular, provides broad authority to regulate hydrocarbons. § 25-7-106
provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary or
desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to
promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission
to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information. § 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and
that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article 7. The Act
broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the atmosphere


                                                                                          547
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane, and other hydrocarbons) and provides the
Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants.

Purpose

To address SB 19-181, SB 19-096, HB 19-1261, ozone, visibility, and nitrogen
deposition, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 that limit
emissions from engines, limit emissions from pre-production tanks, reduce emissions
from hydrocarbon liquids loadout at class II disposal well facilities, require reporting of
emissions from class II disposal well facilities, expand annual reporting to include
additional greenhouse gases, and require monitoring at pre-production and early
production oil and gas operations. These revisions are all adopted on a state-wide and
state-only basis.

Engines (Part E)

The Commission adopted requirements in Part E, Section I. to minimize emissions from
natural gas fired RICE. The requirements apply to natural gas fired RICE greater than or
equal to 1,000 HP. The requirements are responsive to SB 19-181 as it applies to
engines used in the oil and gas sector, as well as securing NOx reductions that will also
reduce ozone, visibility, and nitrogen deposition at RMNP.

Except for the combustion process adjustment requirements for engines at major
sources, the Commission has not revised the requirements pertaining to engines since
2010, and emissions from engines associated with oil and gas production in Colorado
have continued to increase. While the Commission recognizes the twin challenges
currently faced by the oil and gas industry in Colorado - the COVID-19 pandemic and
low oil prices - this regulation’s provisions for phasing in compliance over time and,
particularly, the unique characteristics of the Alternative Company-Wide Compliance
Plan (Company-Wide Plan, affords the industry the flexibility necessary to achieve
emission reductions necessary to protect public health and the environment in a cost
effective manner.

Applicability (Section I.D.5.a.)




                                                                                         548
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted a new subpart, Section I.D.5., to establish state-only
standards to reduce emissions from a subset of existing stationary engines operating
over or equal to 1,000 HP and those placed in service, modified, or relocated after
November 14, 2020. As defined in the rule, “placed in service” addresses when an
engine is brought to a site for utilization. “Placed in service” is a new term that deviates
from the Division and industry’s traditional reliance on the defined term “commence
construction” or NSPS JJJJ’s reliance upon manufacture date.

The Commission is clarifying when replacement of an engine under an authorized
alternative operating scenario (AOS) would not trigger the engine to be subject to the
standards in Table 2 for engines “placed in service” after November 14, 2020.
Subsequent replacements under an authorized AOS also would not trigger the
replacement engine to be subject to the standards in Table 2 for engines “placed in
service” after November 14, 2020. If an engine is replaced under an AOS, while it may
not trigger the lower standards based on “placed in service,” it may nonetheless trigger
the lower standards if it is “relocated” – i.e. if the replacement engine is brought into
Colorado from outside Colorado, or brought into the nonattainment area from outside
the nonattainment area. The return of an engine to the same site from which it was
removed for the sole purpose of repair or maintenance is not considered “placed in
service” or “relocated” for purposes of this Section I.D.5.

The Commission also adopted a different framework for “relocated” engines in
Regulation Number 7, Part E, then in Regulation Number 6, Part B, which provides that
engines brought to a site from another location in Colorado are not considered “new”
and are not subject to the more stringent standards of the applicable NSPS. Under
Regulation Number 7, there are only two exceptions to when an engine is considered
new: when an engine is replaced under an alternative operating scenario (AOS) in an
existing permit, which requires the engine to meet the same standards as the engine
replaced, or when an engine subject to a Company-Wide Plan is moved from one site to
another site with the same owner or operator. When an engine is subject to a Company-
Wide Plan, the operator will have more flexibility to move an engine as long as it
achieves at least the same emission reductions under the plan. However, an engine
brought into the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area is considered “relocated” and must meet or


                                                                                            549
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

exceed the standards as of the date it begins operation, whether or not it is subject to a
Company-Wide Plan.

Emission Standards (Section I.D.5.b.)

The Commission adopted different emission standards based on engine configuration
and the date that the engine was placed in service, modified, or relocated. The
Commission intends that the applicable engine configuration is determined by the most
current Division-issued permit or APEN filed prior to November 14, 2020. If the engine
configuration is not identified in a Division-issued permit or APEN, the owner or operator
is required to submit an APEN with this information to the Division by May 1, 2021. After
November 14, 2020, any change to the identified configuration that results in an
emissions increase is considered a modification.

The Commission adopted, generally, more stringent NOx standards applicable to
engines placed in service, modified, or relocated after November 14, 2020. However, for
2-stroke lean burn engines, the NOx standard is the same whether the engine is
currently in use at a site or brought on at a later date. The Commission also intends that
any engines subject to a more stringent standard under a permit or other rule, such as
Section I.D.2.b. of Regulation Number 7, must still comply with that more stringent limit.
The Commission adopted varying timing requirements for owners or operators to meet
the emission standards, based on the location of subject engines inside and outside of
the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area. Owners or operators with any engines in the 8-Hour
Ozone Control Area are subject to a more aggressive timeline, which requires 100% of
engines inside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area to meet the emission standards by May
1, 2024, and 100% of engines outside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area meet the
emission standards by May 1, 2026. Operators with no engines inside the 8-Hour
Ozone Control Area must follow the second timeline and meet the standards of at least
20% of engines each year from 2022 to 2026.

The Commission intends that the emission standards in Table 2 are a gram per
horsepower-hour limit based on appropriate averaging times. The Commission also
intends that operators demonstrate compliance with the certification and recordkeeping
requirements through the performance testing results required by Section I.D.5.d and


                                                                                       550
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

the portable analyzer results obtained in accordance with Section I.D.5.e., using the
appropriate averaging times.

The Commission requests that the Division consider evaluating strategies to increase
the electrification of engines, lower emissions standards for engines, and possible
controls applicable to smaller engines.

Notification to Division (Section I.D.5.b.(iii))

If an owner or operator has subject engines, the owner or operator must submit a notice
to the Division no later than May 1, 2021. However, the owner or operator of engines
covered by a Company-Wide Plan will not need to submit the information required by
Section I.D.5.b.(iii) for all engines.

Permit Modification (Section I.D.5.b.(iv))

The Commission adopted two deadlines for when a permit modification application is
required. If the engine can meet the standards through only a permit modification, the
application is due May 1, 2021. If the engine cannot meet the standards through only a
permit modification, the application is due 365 days prior to that engine’s compliance
deadline. An example of the first scenario is where an engine currently permitted with a
high emission rate can meet the standards if operated at a lower emission rate and it is,
in fact, already operating as of November 14, 2020, at that lower emission rate. In
contrast, an example of the second scenario is where an engine is permitted at an
emission rate above the applicable standard and operates at its permitted level, which
would require the operator to change the operation of the engine in order to comply.
This engine, therefore, would have a compliance date in accordance with Section
I.D.5.b.(v)(B), and the permit application would be due 365 days prior to that engine’s
compliance deadline. Stakeholders expressed concerns that the Division may not be
able to timely process all of the permit modifications.

Therefore, the Commission determined that the flexibility outlined in the rule was
necessary for both industry and the Division. In the case of a pending permit
modification, the Commission intends that the most current APEN requested limits will
be used to determine compliance with the rule.



                                                                                        551
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Industry stakeholders have expressed that the rules need to be more accommodating
for Division delays in permit issuance for those situations where owners and operators
cannot take action to comply with the emission standards without a permit in hand.
Industry notes that without a revised permit, owners and operators would be out of
compliance with federal and state permit requirements, leaving the operator with the
choice of what standards to comply with. Based on information provided by these
stakeholders, the Division believes that there are only 15 such permits. Additionally, the
vast majority of engine upgrades do not necessitate a permit modification prior to
completing the upgrade.

The Division has indicated that it has enough dedicated staff to complete the required
permit modifications in a timely fashion so long as the operator submits the permit
application at least one year in advance of the compliance deadline. To address
stakeholder concerns, the Commission expects the Division to work with operators that
require a permit prior to commencing upgrades and create a process to give these
permit applications priority. Should any permits push up against the one-year issuance
deadline, the Division, in its discretion, will evaluate any potential operator compliance
deadline extensions on a case-by-case basis.

Alternative Company-Wide Compliance Plan (Company-Wide Plan) (Section I.D.5.c)

The Commission adopted a Company-Wide Plan option to allow flexibility for each
owner or operator to develop a technologically and economically feasible timeline
tailored to its individual operations to achieve the same or better emission reductions
than would be achieved through compliance with the emission standards on an
individual engine basis. The Company-Wide Plan requires an overall emissions
percentage reduction based on company-wide engine operations. Owners or operators
using this option must demonstrate that the total NOx emissions allowed under the
Company-Wide Plan are less than or equal to the total NOx emissions allowed through
compliance with the emission standards on an individual engine basis. Engines included
in a Company-Wide Plan remain subject to the performance testing, monitoring,
recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.




                                                                                        552
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

This Company-Wide Plan option is available only to owners or operators with five or
more engines that are subject to Section I.D.5.b(v)(B). For purpose of the Company-
Wide Plan only, the term owner/operator refers to owners or operators that are
participating in a Company-Wide Plan and are owned or operated by the same parent
company. Engines that already meet the emission standards of Table 2 but only need a
permit modification to reflect compliance may not be part of a Company Wide Plan for
which credit is claimed by the operator. However, if the operator makes a further retrofit
to the engine, the operator may include that engine in the Company Wide Plan and
claim credit for the reductions achieved by the further retrofit. For example, if Engine A,
a 4-stroke lean burn engine, has a permit limit of 1.8 g/hp-hr, but currently operates at
1.2 g/hp-hr, Engine A would not be included in the Company Wide Plan. However, if the
operator installs additional control technology such that Engine A can now operate at
1.0 g/hp-hr, the emission reductions associated with the drop in emissions from 1.2
g/hp-hr to 1.0 g/hp-hr can be included in the Company-Wide Plan. Only physical
retrofits, and not operational changes, can be accounted for in this manner.

Owners or operators will submit a notification (referred to as a compliance plan) using a
Division-approved form that will be developed with stakeholder input. Recognizing that
the Company-Wide Plan is intended to afford flexibility only where it will achieve the
same or better reductions, the Commission has provided for detailed information to be
submitted to the Division for review. The information submitted will allow the Division to
compare the emission standards and operating conditions that an engine is meeting
before and after the Company-Wide plan as well as the maximum emissions
permissible if all Company-Wide Plan engines complied individually with the standards
versus the permissible emissions under the Company-Wide Plan.

Owners or operators must calculate “Plan Emission Reductions” - i.e. a summation of
NOx emission reductions from all engines in the Company-Wide Plan. This figure is
calculated by looking at the maximum amount of NOx emissions from the engines
before November 14, 2020 (using the current permitted emission rate) and subtracting
the maximum amount of NOx emissions that will be allowed from those engines under
the Company-Wide Plan.



                                                                                         553
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Owners or operators must also demonstrate that the Company-Wide Plan will result in
real emission reductions, and the Division is directed to disapprove any Company-Wide
Plan that the Division determines does not achieve those reductions. Owners or
operators will calculate the estimated historic emissions from the plan’s engines in tons
per year as a baseline, using the most stringent regulatory or permitted emission
standards and operating conditions in conjunction with actual operating hours (averaged
over 2017-2019). That baseline figure is then compared to the maximum amount of
emissions permissible from the Company-Wide Plan engines to ensure that the
Company-Wide Plan will result in emission reductions. The demonstration also includes
a comparison of the emission reductions that would be achieved from the actual
baseline figure if each engine complied with the emission standards on an individual
basis to the reductions that will be achieved under the Company-Wide Plan. In this way,
the Commission seeks to ensure that a Company-Wide Plan achieves demonstrable
reductions in NOx emissions.

Owners or operators will not be allowed to utilize reductions in permitted operating
hours to offset emission reductions that would otherwise be achieved where permitted
hours are higher than actual hours of operation (on average over 2017, 2018, and
2019). For example, an operator with a permit to operate at 8,760 hours per year but
that operated only at 5,000 hours per year (on average over 2017, 2018, and 2019)
cannot modify its permit to lower the permitted hours of operation to 5,000 and thereby
create NOx emissions for which it can take credit in its Company-Wide Plan.

Some stakeholders have expressed concerns over how engines that began operation
during or after the averaging years will calculate “historic” emissions. For these types of
engines, the Commission expects that the most recent year(s) of operation should be
used to calculate “historic” emissions. If there is less than one year of operation during
this time frame, the Commission expects that the operator should extrapolate the
available operation emission data to one year to estimate “historic” emissions.

Owners or operators must also submit notice of relocated engines in the annual update
to the Company-Wide Plan, beginning in 2022. A relocated engine will be categorized




                                                                                        554
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

by its new location (inside or outside of the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area) for purposes of
the engine’s compliance deadline.

To assist with implementation, the Commission directs the Division to provide timely
guidance to the regulated community as to how to develop a Company-Wide Plan. The
Commission recognizes that the Company-Wide Plan provisions are complicated, and
believes providing the following examples of how the Commission intends the program
to work will be helpful.

Example 1:

An engine in a Company-Wide Plan is located inside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area. It
is moved from site A to site B (same owner/operator), also within the 8-Hour Ozone
Control Area. The engine was not “placed in service” or “relocated” within the meaning
of this rule, and compliance deadlines would not change. The owner/operator just
submits the new location in its annual update.

Example 2:

An engine in a Company-Wide Plan is located outside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area.
It is moved from site A to site B (same owner/operator), except that site B is located
inside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area. The engine is not “placed in service” within the
meaning of this rule but it is “relocated.” The engine’s relocation into the 8-Hour Ozone
Control impacts both the standard with which it must comply and the timing of when the
new standard must be achieved.

If the engine was not proposed for retrofit or if it was proposed for retrofit but under the
Company-Wide Plan it would not meet the standard, the engine will need to meet the
emission standards as of its date of operation following relocation. If the engine was
proposed for retrofit to achieve performance below the emission standards (retrofit/shut-
down, etc.), the engine must meet the more stringent of either the applicable standard
or the proposed Company-Wide Plan standard as of the date of operation following the
relocation date. Conversely, if an engine subject to a Company-Wide Plan located in the
8-Hour Ozone Control Area is moved to a different site (same owner/operator) outside
of the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area, the engine is not “placed in service” or “relocated”



                                                                                         555
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

within the meaning of this rule. The engine must meet the standard specified in the
Company-Wide Plan consistent with the applicable compliance date.

Example 3:

Operator A has 20 engines and submits a Company-Wide Plan that includes modifying
five engines (in 2022 and 2023) and shutting down two engines (in 2024). Operator A
then transfers ownership of one of the engines (either the engine or the entire facility) to
be shut down to Operator B; that shutdown would have achieved 20 tons per year (tpy)
NOx reduction. Operator A must find an additional 20 tpy NOx reduction from the 19
engines remaining in its Company-Wide Plan.

Example 4:

A Company-Wide Plan includes shutting down an engine. The operator then realizes it
needs a replacement engine at that same site. The operator has a few options. First,
the operator can amend its Company-Wide Plan to no longer shut down the engine
(assuming the engine’s compliance deadline has not yet passed) and can identify other
actions to be taken to achieve the emission reductions that would have otherwise been
realized from the shutdown of the engine. Second, the operator can shut down the
engine as originally intended and bring on a new engine. The new engine will be subject
to the emission standards as an engine “placed in service” after November 14, 2020,
and cannot be a part of the operator’s Company-Wide Plan because an engine
scheduled for shut down under a Company-Wide Plan cannot be replaced with a
different engine subject to the Company-Wide Plan. Because the operator must comply
with the Company-Wide Plan, the operator will still need to cancel the APEN and permit
for the existing engine and permit the new engine as a new source.

Example 5:

An operator has ten engines subject to a Company-Wide Plan and intends to modify
five of those engines to achieve the required Plan Emission Reductions. However, in
order to meet the CO standards for one of the engines that will not be modified to
achieve Plan Emission Reductions, the operator must make an adjustment that has the
effect of increasing NOx emissions from that engine. In calculating the maximum



                                                                                        556
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

allowable NOx emissions from engines in the compliance plan and Plan Emission
Reductions required, the operator must account for the increase in NOx emissions from
the engine.

Performance Testing, Monitoring, Recordkeeping, and Reporting (Sections I.D.5.d.,
I.D.5.e., I.D.5.f., and I.D.5.g.)

The Commission adopted performance testing requirements to establish a baseline for
evaluating an engine’s performance – i.e. to enable an operator to know whether the
engine was meeting the standards already or how much action might be required to
meet the standards. To conserve the resources of both the Division and the operators,
the Commission has allowed for operators to rely on existing ongoing semi-annual
portable analyzer testing requirements, as well as performance testing conducted under
NSPS JJJJ, a permit, or testing conducted voluntarily after January 1, 2020. The
Commission also adopted semi-annual portable analyzer testing requirements. The
portable analyzer monitoring must commence within twelve (12) months of the initial
performance test. The Commission intends that operators will conduct two portable
analyzer tests in 2022, the first of which must be completed by June 30, 2022.

The Commission has also adopted new monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting
requirements. With respect to oil and filter changes under Section I.D.5.e.(iv)(A), the
Commission acknowledges that the development of an oil analysis program that tests to
ensure that oil does not need to be changed meets the requirements of that section.

In the recordkeeping section, the Commission requires that for both performance tests
and portable analyzer tests, the owner or operator retains records regarding the date,
engine settings on the date of the test, and documentation of the methods and results of
the testing/monitoring. The Commission acknowledges that maintaining the test reports
(for performance tests) and maintaining records consistent with the Division’s Portable
Analyzer Monitoring Protocol (for portable analyzer test), is sufficient to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements to maintain the date, engine setting on the date of the
test, and documentation of the methods and results of the testing/monitoring. The
Commission has required the reporting of the results of performance tests (Section
I.D.5.g.(i)) and semi-annual portable tests (Section I.D.5.g.(iv)). By “results,” the


                                                                                          557
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission means that the owner/operator shall indicate whether the tests were
passed or failed. Other, more detailed results are required to be maintained as part of
the recordkeeping requirements and will be available to the Division upon request.

General provisions (Section I.D.2.)

In 2019, the Commission adopted a reorganization of Regulation Number 7 moving like-
sections together, including engines. The Commission now completes the
reorganization of the engine sections by duplicating the applicable general provisions
that applied to engines in Part D, Section II. (formerly numbered Section XVII.) in Part
E, Section I.D.2. These provisions will continue to apply to engines addressed in Part E,
Sections I.D.3. and I.D.4. (formerly Sections XVII.E.) and will also apply to engines
addressed under the new Part E, Section I.D.5.

Oil and gas operations (Part D)

The Commission expanded or adopted additional requirements in Part D to further
minimize emissions of greenhouse gases, ozone precursors, and other hydrocarbons
from the oil and gas sector.

Pre-production and early production monitoring

The Commission adopted a new Section IV. that requires owners or operators to
monitor air quality at and/or around pre-production operations (i.e., drilling, fracturing,
drill-out, flowback) and early production operations (i.e., six months). The purpose of
this air quality monitoring is multi-faceted in that the Commission anticipates the
monitoring program will gather information about the evolving oil and gas monitoring
technologies, data about potential emissions during pre-production and early production
operations (e.g., ozone precursor emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous air
pollutants), and inform future monitoring efforts. Owners or operators will also monitor
air quality for ten days prior to beginning pre-production operations. The Commission
recognizes that ten days does not provide a comprehensive or long-term baseline but
intends that it cover day-of-week variability in surrounding activities and short-term
meteorological variability, in order to provide a reference point for interpreting
subsequent data.



                                                                                          558
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Owners or operators must submit an air quality monitoring plan to the Division for
approval prior to monitoring air quality. The Commission created a flexible air quality
monitoring program that allows the operator to specify what pollutant(s) representative
of pre-production and early production hydrocarbon emissions will be monitored and by
what monitoring technology. The Commission anticipates that the additional elements of
the air quality monitoring plan, such as monitor siting, frequency of measurements,
monitoring equipment limitations, and ability to trigger or collect speciated samples, will
vary based on the monitoring objectives and technology utilized.

The Commission also anticipates that the response level(s) will vary based on the
monitoring technology, monitor placement, the pollutant(s) monitored, data collection
and averaging times, and other factors. The response level may differ from a lower
detection level established by the owner or operator that triggers an initial investigation
of potential emissions at the facility. The Commission expects that the monitoring
technology selected will have a detection ability sufficient to detect the pollutant(s)
monitored at an appropriate level above area concentrations such that the monitoring
objectives (e.g., detect ozone precursors, detect hazardous air pollutants, detect
greenhouse gas emissions, associate elevated monitored values to an emission source
within the monitored operations) are achieved. The Commission recognizes that not
every elevated measurement constitutes a detection requiring a response but instead
may be accompanied by analytics evaluating the measurements in comparison to an
emission source or activity. The Commission also expects that placement of the
monitors will be designed to be adequate to meet the objectives of the monitoring plan
and that operators will select a monitoring technology that collects measurements at
short-term intervals (e.g., 1 minute, 15 minutes, 1 hour) and appropriate sensitivity.

For example, concentrations at 2000-4000 feet away from the operations are likely to be
low and, therefore, would require high-sensitivity instruments; monitors placed in close
distance to the operations may need to be placed at variable heights to detect
emissions from equipment of different heights; or monitors may need to be placed in
both upwind and downwind locations, depending on the monitoring technology. In
addition, the Commission expects the Division to work with operators in approving air
quality monitoring plans to make sure that local jurisdiction air quality monitoring


                                                                                          559
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements and COGCC site preparation requirements are considered. The
Commission expects the Division to consult with relevant local governments in
reviewing monitoring plans, to obtain their input on local circumstances or concerns that
may guide the Division’s determinations on plan adequacy.

Owners or operators will also submit monthly reports of air quality monitoring to the
Division. These monthly reports will include descriptions of activities that occurred
during the monitoring period such that monitoring data can be understood in relation to
activity onsite (e.g., accounting for engine emissions). The Commission recognizes that
monitoring data often requires additional analysis to interpret the resulting data.
Therefore, for this first oil and gas air quality monitoring program, the Commission
expects that operators will make the raw data (e.g., monitor/sensor and meteorological
readings prior to analysis or processing) available to the Division upon request (and
expects the Division to make the raw data available to the relevant local government
entities upon request) but submit the analyzed data results in the monthly reports. The
Commission believes these reports will provide valuable information to interested
citizens, particularly those who live in close proximity to oil and gas facilities. Therefore,
the Commission requests that the Division make the reports publicly available in the
most efficient means possible, which may include posting on the Division’s website
individual reports and/or a compilation summary. This flexible monitoring program is
intended as an initial step to help inform future oil and gas monitoring efforts.

Recognizing that this pre-production emissions monitoring program represents a first
step in understanding both pre-production emissions and the rapidly evolving
technologies that may be used to monitor them, the Commission directs the Division to
report back to the Commission no later than March 31, 2022 with an initial summary of
activities to implement the rule since September, 2020; learnings and insights on
monitoring technologies, including technologies for continuous methane monitoring;
appropriate data summaries on observed emissions based on the monthly reports
received; initial feedback on the adequate length of monitoring time during and possible
identification of exemptions from monitoring for certain types of facilities.

Flowback vessels



                                                                                           560
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also adopted in the new Section VI. a requirement for owners of
operators of pre-production operations to control emissions from flowback vessels. After
hydraulic fracturing, operators bring the frac fluids and entrained solids to the surface.
EPA’s NSPS OOOOa Section 60.5375a requires operators to route flowback during the
initial flowback stage into one or more well completion vessels or storage vessels and
commence operation of a separator unless it is technically infeasible for a separator to
function. During the separation flowback stage, NSPS OOOOa requires operators to
route all recovered liquids from the separator to one or more well completion vessels or
storage vessels, re-inject the liquids into a well, or route the liquids to a collection
system. NSPS OOOOa allows operators to use open vessels to contain flowback fluids
and solids and does not consider a well completion vessel a storage vessel, which
means operators are not required to control well completion vessel emissions.
Therefore, to build on the NSPS reduced emission completion requirements and further
reduce pre-production tank emissions, owners or operators of pre-production operations
must use enclosed flowback vessels after the drill-out phase, which the Commission
recognizes has a high ratio of solids to liquids, and route emissions from flowback
vessels to air pollution control equipment.

Class II disposal well facilities

The Commission added a new definition of class II disposal well facilities. This definition
is based on EPA’s Underground Injection Control Program: Criteria and Standard
definition of class II well (see 40 CFR Section 146.5(b)(1)). The Commission did not
include the element of EPA’s definition concerning enhanced recovery of oil or natural
gas as storage tanks related to those activities are considered part of the associated
well production facility. The Commission recognizes that some class II disposal well
facility operators interpret Part D, Section II.C. such that their storage tanks have not
been subject to the storage tank control requirements. Although the Commission
understands that the Division intended Part D, Section II.C. to apply to storage tanks
serving class II disposal well facilities, the Commission also recognizes that a good faith
argument existed under the prior rule language to support the alternative interpretation.
The Commission intends for the Division to work with owners or operators to address
implementation concerns that may arise including related to the May 1, 2021, state-wide


                                                                                            561
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

compliance deadline for controlling emissions from storage tanks ≥ 2 tpy and associated
monitoring requirements as well as concerns related to the need for supplemental fuel
to control emissions.

The Commission also expanded the hydrocarbon liquids loadout requirements in Part
D, Section II.5. to hydrocarbon liquids loadout at class II disposal well facilities.
Operators inject fluids, primarily brines, associated with oil and natural gas production
into class II wells. Current regulatory requirements in the Safe Drinking Water Act for
class II wells relate to the construction, operation, and monitoring of the well. The Safe
Drinking Water Act does not require emissions reporting or storage tank or loadout
emissions controls at class II disposal well facilities. Therefore, the Commission
expanded the hydrocarbon liquids loadout requirements to class II disposal well facilities
to reduce emissions from these operations.

The Commission directs the division to evaluate potential emission issues associated
with load ins at class II disposal facilities

Annual emissions reporting

In 2019, the Commission adopted annual emissions reporting requirements for
Colorado’s oil and gas sector in Part D, Sections II.G., IV., and V. Owners and operators
are required to report VOC, NOx, CO, ethane, and methane emissions to the Division
on an annual basis. To further address and inform the GHG directives of Senate Bill 19-
096 and House Bill 19-1261, the Commission expanded the reporting requirements to
include the reporting of CO2 and N2O emissions from Colorado’s oil and gas sector.

As described, the Safe Drinking Water Act does not require emissions reporting.
Therefore, the Commission also clarified and expanded the annual emissions reporting
requirements for class II disposal well facilities to better understand the emissions from
these facilities and activities. Related to the fluids accepted for injection disposal, the
Commission is requiring owners or operators to take periodic samples of the liquids to
inform emission estimates. Acknowledging that fluid intake and facility designs may
differ, the Commission expects the Division will work with owners and operators to
develop sampling frequencies and protocols and to ensure accurate and consistent
methods are used for emissions estimation and reporting. Further, these revisions will


                                                                                          562
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found within the
regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7.

Community Engagement

§ 25-7-105(e) requires engagement with disproportionately impacted communities,
other state agencies, stakeholders, and the public. The Division provided multiple ways
for the public, local governments, industry, environmental groups, and other
stakeholders to provide comment during the development of the proposed rules,
including email and remote stakeholder meeting participation.

Additional Considerations

The Clean Air Act does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone NAAQS and Regional Haze
Rule and requires Colorado to attain the NAAQS and reduce visibility. Therefore, the
Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to reduce VOC and NOx
emissions in Colorado. In accordance with §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), CRS, the
Commission states the rules adopted in this rulemaking are state-only requirements and
are not intended as additions or revisions to Colorado’s SIP at this time.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:




                                                                                           563
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations in the
        oil and gas sector including engines, pre-production operations, and class II
        disposal well facilities storage tanks and storage tank loadout. The proposed
        revisions also revise the annual oil and gas sector emissions inventory report to
        include GHGs and class II disposal well facilities. NSPS JJJJ, NSPS OOOO,
        NSPS OOOOa, NSPS Kb, NSPS KKK, NESHAP HH, NESHAP HHH, NESHAP
        ZZZZ, and the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) in 40 CFR Part 98
        may also apply to such oil and gas facilities and operations. The revisions to
        Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis to more storage tanks then the
        NSPS and NESHAP, more engines than NESHAP JJJJ, and more facilities and
        operations than the GHGRP.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        EPA has provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOO and NSPS OOOOa by
        allowing a storage vessel to avoid being subject to NSPS OOOO if the storage
        vessel is subject to any state, federal, or local requirement that brings the storage
        vessel’s emissions below the NSPS OOOO threshold.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
        SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. The Regional
        Haze Rule was also not determined taking into account concerns unique to
        Colorado. Similarly, EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national
        information and data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 ozone NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower
        2015 ozone NAAQS. And, Colorado must improve visibility in accordance with
        Regional Haze. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted by the Commission
        may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional analyses for the more
        stringent NAAQS. The current revisions also attempt to maintain the air quality in



                                                                                          564
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        areas of Colorado currently attaining the NAAQS; should an area slide into
        nonattainment, a nonattainment area designation would likely result in the
        imposition of costlier retrofits. And, the current revisions will improve visibility
        across the state, in particular in Colorado’s class I areas.

(V)     Colorado must attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2021, and the 2015
        ozone NAAQS by August 3, 3021, or risk being reclassified. Colorado must make
        reasonable progress toward improving visibility or risk EPA establishing a federal
        regional haze plan for Colorado. EPA has established a Serious SIP-RACT
        implementation deadline of July 20, 2021, for strategies not needed for any
        attainment demonstration. EPA has established a Regional Haze SIP submittal
        deadline of July 1, 2021. There is no timing issue that might justify changing the
        time frame for implementation of federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address emissions from engines and the
        oil and gas sector in a cost-effective manner, as detailed in the Economic Impact
        Analysis, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado continues to fail to achieve the NAAQS or make progress to reduce
        visibility, EPA may promulgate Federal Implementation Plans; thus potentially
        determining requirements for Colorado’s sources. This outcome may subject
        others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements. The revisions to Regulation
        Number 7 establishing and revising annual oil and gas inventory reporting are
        different than EPA’s GHGRP in that more sources will be required to report under
        Regulation Number 7. This is necessary for Colorado to better understand the oil
        and gas emission sources and the opportunities to pursue additional emission
        reductions. Newly enacted legislation in Colorado has also established a


                                                                                               565
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        compelling reason to adopt the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
        requirements in the revisions.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for hydrocarbon liquid loadout. Other revisions reflect
        changes in industry practice, such as for controlling emissions from flowback
        vessels.

(XI)    The revisions adopted will reduce NOx, VOC, and methane, addressing both
        Colorado’s ozone problems, making strides to reduce the impact of climate
        change, and making progress to improve visibility. As set forth in the Economic
        Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 will reduce emissions in a
        cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in greenhouse gases, ozone,
        VOC, NOx, other hydrocarbons, impacts to visibility, and nitrogen deposition to
        address Regional Haze, SB 19-181, and help to attain the NAAQS. SB 19-181
        specifically directs the Commission to “consider” revising its rules to adopt more
        stringent requirements for the oil and gas sector. The Commission determined
        that the Division’s proposal was reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no
        action alternative would very likely result in the need for much more stringent
        requirements to reduce nitrogen deposition in RMNP, improve visibility in
        Colorado’s Class I areas, and reduce ozone across the state but particularly in
        the DMNFR.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

To the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:




                                                                                          566
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of methane, VOCs, and other hydrocarbons.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

U.      December 18, 2020 (Part D, Section II.; Part E, Sections II., IV., and V.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis

On December 26, 2019, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reclassified the
Denver Metro North Front Range (DMNFR) to Serious, after 2015-2017 ozone data
failed to show attainment of the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standard (NAAQS). See 84 Fed. Reg. 247 (December 26, 2019). As a Serious area, the
major source threshold lowers from 100 tons per year (tpy) of VOC or NOx to 50 tpy.
EPA has also designated the DMNFR as Marginal nonattainment for the 2015 ozone
NAAQS of 70 ppb. Therefore, to ensure progress towards attainment of the 2008 and
2015 ozone NAAQS, the Commission is adopting revisions to Regulation Number 7 to
include reasonably available control requirements (RACT) for major sources with VOC


                                                                                          567
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

and/or NOx emissions equal to or greater than 50 tpy; specifically, for foam
manufacturing, boilers, turbines, landfill gas and biogas fired engines, and wood surface
coating.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such
rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-
7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article
7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the
atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and
provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants. Section 105(1)(a)(I)
directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS.
§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to
promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission
to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information.

§§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and (3) of the Act authorize the Commission to promulgate
regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for significant sources
and categories of sources, emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides
and hydrocarbons, and emissions control regulations pertaining to the storage and
transfer of petroleum products and other VOCs. § 25-7-109(2)(c), in particular, provides
broad authority to regulate hydrocarbons. § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to
adopt emission control regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other
hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from oil and gas operations.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes technological and scientific rational for the adoption
of the revisions.


                                                                                          568
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission is revising Regulation Number 7 to include provisions in the SIP that
require the implementation of RACT for major sources (> 50 tpy NOx and/or VOC)
including expanding existing requirements, incorporating federal requirements, and
including categorical RACT requirements.

The Commission is also clarifying requirements related to leak detection and repair
(LDAR) inspections. The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors found through the regulation.

Major source RACT

Due to the reclassification to Serious, Colorado must submit revisions to its SIP to
address the Clean Air Act’s (CAA) Serious ozone nonattainment area requirements, as
set forth in CAA §§ 172 and 182(c) and the final SIP Requirements Rule for the 2008
Ozone NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)). A Serious SIP revision must
include provisions that require the implementation of RACT for major sources of VOC
and/or NOx (i.e., sources that emit or have the potential to emit 50 tpy or more) and for
each category of VOC sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline (CTG) for
which Colorado has sources in the DMNFR. Therefore, the Commission adopted
revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT requirements in Colorado’s ozone
SIP for 50 tpy major sources of VOC and/or NOx including a NOx emission limit for
boilers between 50 MMBtu/hr and 100 MMBtu/hr, a NOx emission limit for landfill gas or
biogas fired engines, NOx emission limits for combustion turbines, categorical
requirements to reduce VOC emissions related to foam manufacturing, and expanded
categorical requirements to reduce VOC emissions related to wood surface coating.

Boilers

In 2019, the Commission expanded the combustion equipment requirements adopted in
2016 and 2018 for the 100 tpy major sources to the 50 tpy major sources. Specifically,
for boilers, the Commission adopted provisions requiring boilers greater than or equal to
50 MMBtu/hr at 50 tpy major sources to comply with a 0.2 lb/MMBtu NOx emission limit.
The Commission now further expands the categorical RACT requirements to require 50-
100 MMBtu/hr boilers at 50 tpy major sources to comply with a 0.1 lb/MMBtu NOx
emission limits. The owners or operators of these boilers will continue to comply with the


                                                                                       569
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

combustion process adjustment, periodic performance testing, and recordkeeping
requirements.

Engines

In 2019, the Commission expanded the NOx emission limit requirements for
compression ignition reciprocating internal combustion engines (RICE) and combustion
process adjustment requirements for stationary RICE. The Commission now further
expands the categorical RACT requirements for engines to include landfill gas and
biogas fired RICE and require the engines to comply with the NOx emission limit in
EPA’s NSPS JJJJ for landfill/digester gas fired engines. The owners or operators of
these engines will continue to comply with the combustion process adjustment, periodic
performance testing, and recordkeeping requirements.

Turbines

In 2019, the Commission adopted provisions requiring turbines constructed before
February 18, 2005, to comply with NSPS GG and turbines construction after February
18, 2005, to comply with NSPS KKKK. During review of the submitted SIP RACT
requirements, EPA questioned Colorado’s reliance on EPA’s NSPS GG as RACT and
requested Colorado consider the NOx emission limits in EPA’s NSPS KKKK for
Colorado’s NSPS GG and pre-NSPS GG turbines at major sources. While the
Commission does not agree that NSPS GG is inappropriate as SIP RACT for
Colorado’s NSPS GG and pre-NSPS GG turbines, the Commission revised the
requirements for turbines to reference NSPS KKKK NOx emission limits for the turbines
constructed before February 18, 2005, but retain the testing and monitoring
requirements of NSPS GG. Turbines with CEMS that are capable of operating in both
combined and simple cycle modes are to show compliance with a 30-day average.
Similar to EPA’s discussion in the preamble to NSPS KKKK, the Commission
recognizes turbines may have emission spikes during unit startup and that, therefore
intends the turbine NOx emission limits to be implemented as under NSPS KKKK. See
71 Fed. Reg. 38,482 at 38,488-38,489 (July 6, 2006) “While continuous compliance is
not required, excess emissions during startup, shutdown, and malfunction must be




                                                                                      570
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

reported.” All turbines will continue to comply with good air practices for minimizing
emissions, combustion process adjustment, and recordkeeping requirements.

Wood coating

In 2018, the Commission adopted requirements for wood furniture surface coating
based on recommendations in EPA’s Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions
from Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations CTG (Wood Furniture CTG) (1996),
including topcoat and sealer VOC content limits, work practices, and recordkeeping
requirements. Wood furniture is defined to mean “any product made of wood, a wood
product such as rattan or wicker, or an engineered wood product such as particleboard,”
which is not inclusive of all wood products such as doors. However, in EPA’s A Guide to
the Wood Furniture CTG and NESHAP (1997), EPA states that “States may choose to
extend their rules to other operations. For example, some States have developed rules
for manufacturers of wood products so they may include limitations for manufacturers of
items such as musical instruments or doors.” Therefore, the Commission expanded the
wood furniture surface coating requirements to the surface coating of other wood
products such as doors, door casings, and decorative wood accents.

Foam manufacturing

The Commission adopted new VOC control requirements for foam manufacturing
operations. The new provisions affect three foam manufacturing operations, although
one of the sources is modifying their permit to more accurately reflect their actual
emissions and will, therefore, have VOC emissions below 50 tpy. These new provisions
include emission control requirements, work practices, monitoring, and recordkeeping
requirements for foam manufacturing operations.

LDAR (Part D, Section II.)

The Commission also adopted clarifying revisions to the leak detection and repair
(LDAR) provisions the Commission adopted in December 2019 including clarification to
applicability and requirements for recordkeeping and reporting. The clarifications to
Sections II.E.4.c. and II.E.4.d. ensure that operators continue to determine applicability
in accordance with the storage tank or facility emissions as they have since the LDAR



                                                                                         571
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

program was adopted in 2014. The inclusion of recordkeeping and reporting elements
specific to increased inspections based on location from occupied areas ensure that the
Commission can evaluate the efficacy of the LDAR program. The Commission
acknowledges that not all operators will need to conduct a precise analysis concerning
their location in relation to occupied areas (i.e., proximity analysis) based on their
general distance.

However, the Commission believes it is important for operators to provide at least
general documentation that they considered their location, even if to describe an
extreme remote location. The Commission also acknowledges that some operators may
elect to comply with the increased frequency inspections for certain facilities without
conducting a proximity analysis. Documentation of this decision to comply with the
increased inspection frequency satisfies the proximity analysis requirement.

The Local Community Organizations proposed an alternate rule to establish shorter
repair deadlines for leaks discovered at well production facilities within 1,000 feet of an
occupied area. The Local Community Organizations, industry, and the Division
negotiated and agreed to the final language adopted by the Commission. For leaks
identified at a well production facility located within 1,000 feet of an occupied area,
operators must make a first attempt to repair the leak as soon as practicable, but no
later than five working days after discovery of the leak. If repair cannot be completed
within five days and the leak is not stopped using other means, the owner or operator
must notify the local government with jurisdiction over the location and the Division.
Reasons why an operator may be unable to attempt or complete repair within five days
include, among other things, inclement weather that prevents a timely repair or repair
attempt or delays in procuring necessary heavy equipment and workover rigs. The
industry parties also raised the issue about local government or other agency
requirements potentially delaying repair. Such impacts to repair schedules should be
considered as the program is implemented.

The Commission notes that it will be the operator's responsibility to demonstrate the
need for the delay beyond five working days, and the Commission expects that
operators will be able to explain the types of reasonable efforts the operator undertakes



                                                                                          572
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

to avoid the delay (e.g., reasonable efforts in procuring the equipment). If a leak is
detected at a facility without a proximity analysis, operators may conduct a proximity
analysis and may follow the repair deadlines in Section II.E.7.a. if there are no occupied
areas within 1,000 feet.

Consistent with the existing LDAR program, leaks detected are not subject to
enforcement by the Division so long as the operator complies with the repair and
recordkeeping requirements of Section II.E. However, as the Commission noted in 2014
and again in 2017, the Commission does not intend to relieve owners or operators of
the obligation to comply with the general requirements of Part D, Sections I.C, II.B, or
II.C (as applicable), including the requirements to minimize emissions and to operate
without venting.

Further, these revisions will correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting
errors found within the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7, Part E, Section II.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the serious ozone
nonattainment area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the
provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone
NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to satisfy
Colorado’s serious nonattainment area obligations.




                                                                                         573
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to achieve further
emission reductions in the oil and gas sector.

In accordance with §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), CRS, the Commission states the
rules in Part D, Section II. of Regulation Number 7 adopted in this rulemaking are state-
only requirements and are not intended as additions or revisions to Colorado’s SIP at
this time.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS, the Commission determines

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations in the
        oil and gas sector including fugitive emissions from components. NSPS OOOO
        and NSPS OOOOa may also apply to such oil and gas facilities and operations.
        The revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis to more fugitive
        emissions components then the NSPS. The Commission revised Regulation
        Number 7 to include regulatory RACT requirements for Colorado’s major sources
        of VOC and/or NOx (> 50 tpy) in the SIP. Specifically, the Commission revised
        Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section I. and Part E, Sections II. and V. to include
        categorical regulatory RACT requirements. MACT DDDDD, MACT JJJJJJ, MACT
        ZZZZ, MACT YYYY, NSPS GG, NSPS KKKK, NSPS IIII, and NSPS JJJJ may
        apply to such combustion equipment. However, the Regulation Number 7
        revisions apply on a broader basis to more combustion equipment.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        EPA has provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOOa by allowing a company to
        apply to EPA for an alternative means of emission limitations for fugitive
        emissions components.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP
        revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not
        determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. Similarly, EPA


                                                                                           574
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data, not
        Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s Moderate nonattainment area RACT obligations.
        Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its SIP directly, as the
        Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower 2015
        ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established a Serious SIP-RACT implementation deadline of July 20,
        2021, for strategies not needed for any attainment demonstration. There is no
        timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 strengthen Colorado’s SIP and state-only
        provisions. These sections currently address emissions from the oil and gas
        sector in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s oil
        and gas industry. The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part C, Sections I.
        recognize practices currently utilized by wood coating operations. The revisions
        to Regulation Number 7, Part E, also consider specific existing major sources of
        VOC and NOx, allowing for continued growth at Colorado’s major sources.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 Part D establish reasonable equity for oil
        and gas owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the same
        standards for similarly situated and sized sources. The revisions to Regulation
        Number 7, Part C and Part E similarly establish the categorical RACT
        requirements for similarly situated and sized sources.




                                                                                          575
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
        Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
        This outcome may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for component leaks. Other revisions reflect changes in
        industry practice, such as for wood coating and foam manufacturing. Similarly,
        the revisions concerning major sources of VOC and NOx generally reflect current
        emission controls and work practices.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, NOx, methane,
        and other hydrocarbons to address SB 19-181 and help to attain the NAAQS.
        The Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was reasonable and
        cost-effective. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in an
        unapprovable SIP.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the serious nonattainment area
requirements. However, to the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this
rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission
hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.




                                                                                          576
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of methane, VOCs, and other hydrocarbons.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

V.      February 18, 2021 (Part D, Section III.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted revisions to
several Colorado Revised Statutes in Senate Bill 19-181 (SB 19-181) (Concerning
additional public welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations)
that include directives for the Commission. SB 19-181 revised the Air Quality Control
Commission’s directives in § 25-7-109, CRS, to consider pneumatic device
requirements. Additionally, in HB 19-1261, the legislature mandated a 26% reduction in
GHG by 2025, 50% by 2030, and 90% by 2050 (from a 2005 baseline), §§ 25-7-
102(2)(g), 25-7-105(1)(e)(II), CRS.

Further, on December 26, 2019, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
reclassified the Denver Metro North Front Range (DMNFR) to Serious, after 2015-2017
ozone data failed to show attainment of the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (NAAQS). See 84 Fed. Reg. 247 (December 26, 2019). As a Serious


                                                                                          577
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

area, the major source threshold lowers from 100 tons per year (tpy) of VOC or NOx to
50 tpy. EPA has also designated the DMNFR as Marginal nonattainment for the 2015
ozone NAAQS of 70 ppb. Therefore, to further minimize emissions from the oil and gas
sector and ensure progress towards attainment of the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS
and necessary greenhouse gas emission reductions, the Commission is adopting
revisions to Regulation Number 7 to require non-emitting controllers in certain
situations.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1),
directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with
the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to
include essentially any gas emitted into the atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC,
NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and provides the Commission broad authority
to regulate air pollutants. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in
developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of
regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also
authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the
entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6)
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information.

§§ 25-7-109(1)(a), (2), and of the Act authorize the Commission to promulgate
regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for significant sources
and categories of sources, emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides
and hydrocarbons, and emissions control regulations pertaining to the storage and
transfer of petroleum products and other VOCs. § 25-7- 109(2)(c), in particular, provides
broad authority to regulate hydrocarbons. § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to
adopt emission control regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other
hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from oil and gas operations.

Purpose


                                                                                           578
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions. The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors found through the regulation. As discussed, SB 19-181 identifies
specific requirements the Air Quality Control Commission should consider, including
pneumatic controller requirements. In December 2019, the Commission expanded the
pneumatic controller inspection and maintenance requirements, adopted in 2017, from
nonattainment area applicability to statewide applicability.

As part of that rulemaking, the Commission directed the Statewide Hydrocarbon
Emission Reduction (SHER) team and Pneumatic Controller Task Force (PCTF),
stakeholder processes directed by the Commission in 2017, to continue their
stakeholder processes and bring to the Commission in 2020 their recommendations on
the use of zero-bleed pneumatic devices. Both the SHER team and PCTF continued to
meet through the spring of 2020. The stakeholder discussions from 2017-2020 informed
the Commission’s adopted provisions regarding non-emitting controllers. Non-emitting
controllers are a broader category than no-bleed pneumatic controllers and can include,
but are not limited to, air-driven controllers, mechanical controllers, electric controllers,
self-contained controllers and controllers where exhaust gas is routed to a combustion
device.

Definitions

The Commission took the opportunity to amend the definitions associated with
pneumatic controllers to reflect more accurate and appropriate technical definitions. The
definition of “intermittent pneumatic controller” is intended to include controllers that are
not designed to have a continuous bleed rate. Although intermittent pneumatic
controllers are not designed to emit between actuations, de minimis emissions may
occur between actuations. Such de minimis emissions do not alter a controller’s
classification as “intermittent.”

New Facilities and Certain Retrofits

The revisions to Regulation Number 7 adopted in this rulemaking require the use of
non-emitting controllers at well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations


                                                                                           579
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

that commence operations on or after May 1, 2021. The revisions also require retrofits
of natural gas emitting pneumatic controllers to non-emitting controllers at well
production facilities where a well first begins production or is recompleted or refractured
on or after May 1, 2021 and at natural gas compressor stations that increase
horsepower on or after May 1, 2021.

Company-wide plans

Additionally, the Commission has required operators with well production facilities or
natural gas compressor stations that commenced operations prior to May 1, 2021 to
develop plans on a company-wide basis to convert some of such facilities to use non-
emitting controllers. For purposes of Section III.C.4, retrofit refers to converting a natural
gas emitting pneumatic controller to a non-emitting controller. Plugging and abandoning
an existing well production facility constitutes an alternative method of compliance with
retrofit requirements as described in Section III.C.4.c.(iii).

Specifically, the Commission has adopted a program that requires owners or operators
of well production facilities that commenced operations prior to May 1, 2021 to
determine the percentage of their total liquids production at facilities with non-emitting
controllers. Facilities that commenced operation prior to May 1, 2021 shall be included
in the relevant (well production or compressor station) companywide plan, and the
companywide plan shall reflect operations as of May 1, 2021. If any of the events
described in Sections III.C.4.a.(ii) or (iii) occur on or after May 1, 2021 and before May
1, 2023, then the owner or operator may count, as applicable, the: (1) percentage of
production allocated to that facility as of May 1, 2021 as retrofit for purposes of the well
production facility companywide plan; or (2) the pneumatic controllers emitting to
atmosphere as of May 1, 2021 as retrofit for purposes of the compressor station
companywide plan.

Where facility production must be estimated pursuant to Section III.C.4.c.(ii)(A)(3),
owners or operators will follow the same process that would be used to establish permit
limitations on production throughput, such as summation of anticipated production
curves. Of note, if a facility operating in 2019 was subsequently acquired by a new




                                                                                          580
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

operator, then the facility (and its percent of production) is associated with the company-
wide plan of the entity owning the facility as of May 1, 2021.

Based upon this percentage, operators will be required to retrofit facilities incrementally
by May 1, 2022 and May 1 2023; the required retrofits correspond to an increasing
percentage of each operator’s total liquids production flowing through facilities with non-
emitting controllers. The incremental percentage increases for well production facilities
are found in Table 1. Operators that increase their total non-emitting facility percent
production up to a specified threshold are not required to achieve the entire incremental
percentage increase that would otherwise apply for that year. However, the minimum
incremental increases and specified thresholds do not restrict operators from exceeding
the requirements.

Each well production facility operator is required to submit a company-wide plan by
September 1, 2021 that lists specific information regarding its facilities that commenced
operations prior to May 1, 2021, its total liquids production, facilities with non-emitting
controllers, total percentage of liquid production flowing through facilities with non-
emitting controllers, and the facilities that the operator intends to retrofit or plug and
abandon in order to achieve the incremental increases in total liquids production flowing
through facilities with non-emitting controllers. This company-wide plan should be
updated in July 2022, with a final company- wide plan reflecting all facilities that were
retrofit or plugged and abandoned submitted in July 2023.

The Commission has also required operators of natural gas compressor stations that
commenced operations prior to May 1, 2021 to develop plans on a company-wide basis
to convert pneumatic controllers at such facilities to non-emitting controllers.
Specifically, the Commission has adopted a program that requires operators to
determine the percentage of emitting and non-emitting pneumatic controllers and based
upon that percentage, operators will be required to increase the percentage of non-
emitting controllers incrementally by May 1, 2022 and May 1, 2023. The incremental
percentage requirements for natural gas compressor stations are found in Table 2. As
for well production facilities, operators that increase their total percentage of non-
emitting controllers up to a specified threshold are not required to achieve the entire



                                                                                             581
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

percentage increase for that year that would otherwise apply. The minimum percentage
increases and specified thresholds do not restrict operators from exceeding these
requirements.

Each operator is required to submit a company-wide plan by September 1, 2021 that
lists specific information regarding its facilities that commenced operations prior to May
1, 2021, total controllers, percentage of emitting and non-emitting controllers, the
required incremental increases in non-emitting controllers, and the pneumatic
controllers that the operator intends to retrofit or remove from service to achieve the
incremental increases in non-emitting controllers.

For well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations, an owner or operator
may elect to combine facilities with other owners or operators that are owned or
operated by the same parent company in complying with company-wide compliance
plan requirements.

At this time, operators will not be subject to the requirement to retrofit pneumatic
controllers if they have facilities that on a company-wide basis, and taking into account
only wells that produced oil or gas or both in calendar year 2019, averaged 15 barrels of
oil and gas equivalent (“BOE”) or less per day per well. However, in 2021, the
Commission plans to consider additional emission reductions for the oil and gas sector
that would enable the state to meet its ambitious climate goals as set forth in HB 19-
1261. The Commission directs the Division to consider whether additional requirements
to reduce emissions at the sites not subject to retrofit pursuant to Section III.C.4.c.(iv),
including retrofit of pneumatic controllers, should be included in that rulemaking.

The requirement to submit an acknowledgement or certification under Sections
III.C.4.c.(v) and III.C.4.d.(v) (regarding sale or transfer) does not apply to well
production facilities or natural gas compressor stations that, at the time of sale or
transfer are not intended to and will not be used to achieve the Total Required Non-
Emitting Facility Percent Production or Total Required Non-Emitting Percent Controller
target, as applicable. The following are each an acceptable means of ensuring
compliance with Section III. following transfer through which owners or operators shall
satisfy their obligations under Section III.C.4.c.(v) or Section III.C.4.d.(v), as applicable:


                                                                                           582
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Example 1: Operator A has a Total Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production of
61%. Operator A is required to achieve an additional 5% of non-emitting facility percent
production by May 1, 2022, and an additional 10% by May 1, 2023, with a Total
Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production target of 76%. Operator A achieves
the additional 5% of non-emitting facility percent production by May 1, 2022. In 2023,
prior to May 1, Operator A transfer’s ownership to Operator B of two well production
facilities that Operator A had intended to retrofit with non-emitting controllers or plug and
abandon in order to achieve its Total Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production.
Retrofitting or plugging and abandoning those two facilities would have comprised half
of the additional production required by May 1, 2023 (i.e., 5% of Total Required Non-
Emitting Facility Percent Production).

Scenario 1: Notwithstanding the transfer, Operator A may find an alternative 5% of Total
Historic Production remaining in its Company-Wide Plan to achieve its Total Required
Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production. In this case, Operator A does not need to
submit an acknowledgement or certification upon transfer, but shall include this
information in its next update to the Company-Wide Plan. This example would apply
equally to transfers of assets subject to a Company-Wide Compressor Station
Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plan.

Scenario 2: Operator A submits an acknowledgement, on a Division-approved form, that
it will ensure the transferred asset is retrofit by May 1, 2023. Under this scenario, either
Operator A or Operator B may undertake any necessary retrofitting (or plugging and
abandonment) of the asset to allow Operator A to take credit for retrofit of the 5% of
Total Historic Production, provided, however, that Operator A will remain responsible for
retrofit of that asset to achieve its Total Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent
Production. This means that if retrofit of the asset is not completed for whatever reason,
Operator A would have to find an alternative 5% of Total Historic Production remaining
in its Company-Wide Plan to achieve its Total Required Non- Emitting Facility Percent
Production by May 1, 2023.

Scenario 3: Operator A submits an acknowledgement, on a Division-approved form, that
it plans to use the transferred asset to achieve its Total Required Non-Emitting Facility



                                                                                         583
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Percent Production and Operator B certifies, on a Division-approved form, that it will
retrofit the transferred asset by May 1, 2023. Upon certification by Operator B, Operator
A shall receive credit for the retrofit of the 5% of Total Historic Production towards its
applicable targets under Section III.C.4. The Division-approved form must include a
statement that Operator B assumes Operator A’s Section III.C.4 obligations with respect
to the transferred asset and is, therefore, subject to the Division’s enforcement authority
in the event of noncompliance. Acquisition of the asset does not alter the calculation of
Operator B’s compliance with the percentage thresholds specified in Table 1 or 2 for its
own Company-Wide Plan, if applicable.

Example 2: Operator A has a Total Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production of
61% and a Total Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production target of 76%.
Operator B has a Total Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent of 21% and a Total
Required Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production target of 56%. Operator A and
Operator B merge (or one entity acquires the other) in 2023, prior to May 1. Despite the
merger, the resulting ownership of Operators A and B must continue to separately
comply with the respective Company-Wide Plans and Total Required Non-Emitting
Facility Percent Production targets of Operator A and Operator B that existed prior to
merger.

Exemptions for Specific Controllers

The Commission has recognized that there are appropriate circumstances where even
non-emitting facilities may need to use pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas to the
atmosphere. Section III.C.4.e.(i)(A) authorizes use of pneumatic controllers necessary
for a safety or process purpose that cannot otherwise be met without emitting natural
gas. Starting May 1, 2021, new well production facilities or facilities where a well first
begins production or is recompleted or refractured, and new compressor stations or
stations that increase horsepower, must submit a justification for any safety or process
exemption to the Division for approval 45 days prior to installation of the emitting device
or retrofit of the facility. Owners or operators that intend to rely on this exemption to
maintain emitting controllers at facilities that are retrofit under a company-wide plan
must submit a justification to the Division 45 days prior to retrofit of the facility.



                                                                                             584
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission notes that the rule may not be effective 45 days prior to May 1, 2021.
If so, for well production facilities and natural gas compressor stations commencing
operation or taking actions described in Sections III.C.4.a.(ii) or (iii) on or after May 1,
2021 but prior to June 1, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the justification
required in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(A)(1) by May 1, 2021, and the justification shall be
deemed approved unless denied prior to commencing operation or prior to the time the
actions described in Sections III.C.4.a.(ii) or (iii) occur. Section III.C.4.e.(i)(A), the
requirement to seek Division approval is not applicable for: (1) well production facilities
that qualify as contributing to Historic Non-Emitting Facility Percent Production, as
defined in Section III.C.4.c.(ii)(D)(1) to (2), or (2) compressor stations that commenced
operation before May 1, 2021.

Section III.C.4.e.(i)(B) authorizes use of pneumatic controllers that emit natural gas for
activities that occur prior to the end of flowback and well abandonment activities. In
addition, Section III.C.4.e.(i)(C) allows owners or operators, upon notice to the Division,
to use temporary and portable equipment with pneumatic controllers that emit natural
gas for sixty days for purposes other than increasing the throughput of the facility. The
Commission directs the Division to develop a streamlined mechanism for filing these
notifications, including evaluating the potential for electronic notification. Owners or
operators must request Division approval to extend the sixty-day timeframe and must do
so at least fourteen days prior to the end of the exemption period. Owners or operators
utilizing temporary or portable equipment with pneumatic controllers that emit natural
gas must conduct AVO and AIMM inspections of those controllers on the same schedule
as the associated well production facility or compressor station under Section II.E., and
must comply with the repair, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of Sections
II.E.6 through 9.

The requirement to use non-emitting pneumatic controllers at sites that commenced
operations on or after May 1, 2021, or where one or more wells first begin production or
are recompleted or refractured on or after May 1, 2021 does not apply in certain
applications at some wellheads located away from the associated production facilities.
Additionally, operators that have or retrofit well production facilities to be non-emitting
pursuant to the company-wide plan may not be required to use non-emitting controllers


                                                                                             585
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

in certain applications at some wellheads located away from the associated production
facilities.

As set forth in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D), operators may use natural gas actuated
pneumatic controllers that emit to the atmosphere to control emergency shutdown
devices or artificial lift control at a wellhead if the wellhead is located more than one
quarter of a mile from the associated well production facility for well production facilities
commencing operations on or after May 1, 2021, or for wellheads not located on the
same surface disturbance for well production facilities commencing operations prior to
May 1, 2021. Any other pneumatic controllers (e.g. those not used as emergency
shutdown devices or for artificial lift control) located at the wellheads within the specified
distance from the associated production facilities must be non-emitting, unless the
operator submits a justification for use of an emitting controller to the Division for
approval at least 45 days prior to installation of the emitting device or retrofit of the
facility or by July 1, 2021 for well production facilities that commenced operations prior
to May 1, 2021 and the operator intends to be reflected as non-emitting in the company-
wide plan.

The Commission notes that the rule may not be effective 45 days prior to May 1, 2021.
If so, for well production facilities commencing operation or taking actions described in
Section III.C.4.a.(ii) on or after May 1, 2021 but prior to June 1, 2021, the owner or
operator shall submit the justification required in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(1) by May 1,
2021, and the justification shall be deemed approved unless denied prior to
commencing operation or prior to the time the actions described in Section III.C.4.a.(ii)
occur. The one quarter mile measurement associated with distance from the wellhead to
the well production facility shall be measured from the wellhead to the closest
equipment associated with the well production facility.

To qualify for the exemption in Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D), the operator must use an
approved instrument monitoring method and AVO to detect leaks at the wellhead at the
same frequency as the associated well production facility as set forth in Table 3 of
Section II.E.4, which sets forth the frequency of component inspections, or no less than
once per year, whichever is greater. For facilities that commenced operations prior to



                                                                                            586
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

May 1, 2021, this monitoring requirement will begin on May 1, 2022, or the date the
facility is converted to a site with only non-emitting controllers, whichever is later. The
Commission recognizes that wellheads may sometimes be difficult to inspect due to
land access issues or severe weather and has adopted provisions allowing operators to
delay inspections until access is restored. Owners or operators also may utilize OGI
camera-equipped aerial drones to perform these wellhead inspections to provide
frequent leak detection and further promote the advancement of leak detection
methodologies - both of which are foundational to Colorado’s find and fix approach to
leak detection. At the same time, the Commission believes this application of OGI
requires rethinking of the methodology generally used for land based OGI applications.

Thus, the provisions of Section III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3) allowing for the use of OGI camera-
equipped aerial drones to inspect wellhead equipment apply on a limited basis, as state-
only provisions and do not by themselves authorize the use of drones to inspect other
equipment or constitute approval of drones as alternative AIMM. Operators must
develop their own methodology before using OGI camera-equipped aerial drones and
make that methodology available to the Division upon request. The methodology must
include, at a minimum, procedures for: determining maximum wind speed during which
the inspection can be performed; determining the maximum viewing distance from the
equipment; how the operator will ensure an adequate thermal background is present to
view potential leaks; how the operator will deal with adverse monitoring conditions, such
as wind; and how the operator will deal with interferences. At a minimum, any drone
inspection must ensure line of sight from the drone to all wellhead equipment and
components and take place when the drone-mounted camera is close enough to the
wellhead equipment and components to achieve sensitivity for detection of emissions
similar to the sensitivity commonly achieved during OGI inspections carried out with
hand-carried infrared cameras. Furthermore, the Commission directs the parties to this
rulemaking that wish to participate to jointly recommend an OGI camera-equipped aerial
drone usage methodology to the Division’s Alternative AlMM Team by May 2022, for
further review and consideration.

Finally, operators may not use this exemption where equipment with natural gas
emitting pneumatic controllers other than the wellhead, such as a separator, is located


                                                                                          587
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

at the wellhead site. Under those circumstances, emitting pneumatic controllers used for
emergency shut down control may still qualify for the safety and process exemption
under Section III.C.4.e.(i)(A) where the necessary conditions and approvals for that
exemption are met.

Tagging of Controllers

In order to assist in ease of identification of pneumatic controllers that are authorized to
emit natural gas to the atmosphere, the Commission has required operators to tag
pneumatic controllers that are authorized to emit natural gas to the atmosphere
pursuant to the specified exemptions in Section III.C.4.e.(i) at wellhead production
facilities which are non-emitting and at natural gas compressor stations that have one or
more non-emitting controllers. Natural gas compressor station operators must
differentiate between emitting pneumatic controllers that are exempt under Section
III.C.4.e.(i) and those that are not identified as non-emitting controllers in the company-
wide plan and are, thus, not required to retrofit. The requirement to tag pneumatic
controllers that emit natural gas pursuant to Sections III.C.4.e.(i)(A) through (D) does
not apply at well production facilities that are not required to be non-emitting or elected
to be non-emitting pursuant to the company-wide plan requirements. In each instance
where the regulation references a requirement to use non-emitting controllers, such
reference is limited by the exemptions allowing the use of pneumatic controllers to emit
natural gas to atmosphere as set forth in the regulation.

Recordkeeping

Operators of well production facilities or natural gas compressor stations must keep the
following records for five years, and make them available to the Division upon request:
(1) Records of the date a well production facility completes retrofit or all wells flowing to
the well production facility are plugged and abandoned, or the date the natural gas
compressor station pneumatic controllers were retrofit or it is taken out of service, (2) If
claiming an exemption for an emitting pneumatic controller, records for each controller
demonstrating the exemption applies, (3) Copies of the Company-Wide Well Production
Facility Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plan and Company-Wide Compressor Station
Pneumatic Controller Compliance Plans, (4) For any operator utilizing III.C.4.c.(iv), the


                                                                                          588
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                         5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

records described in Section III.C.4.c.(iv) that demonstrate the owner or operator
qualifies under that provision, and (5) For each pneumatic controller required to be
tagged pursuant to Sections III.C.4.d.(iv), III.C.4.d.(vi)(B), III.C.4.e.(ii), or III.C.4.e.(iii), a
list of each tagged pneumatic controller, equipment location, and its tag identification
number.

In accordance with §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), CRS, the Commission states the
rules in Part D, Section II of Regulation Number 7 adopted in this rulemaking are state-
only requirements and are not intended as additions or revisions to Colorado’s SIP at
this time, other than those revising definitions currently in the SIP.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7- 110.5(5)(b), CRS, the Commission determines:

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations in the
        oil and gas sector including natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers. NSPS
        OOOO and NSPS OOOOa may also apply to such oil and gas facilities and
        operations. The revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis to
        more natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers than the NSPS.

(II)    The Federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        EPA has provided some flexibility in NSPS OOOOa by allowing a company to
        apply to EPA for an alternative means of emission limitations.

(III)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 strengthen Colorado’s state-only
        provisions. These revisions currently address emissions from the oil and gas
        sector in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s oil
        and gas industry.

(IV)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part D establish reasonable equity for oil
        and gas owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the same
        standards for similarly situated and sized sources.



                                                                                                 589
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include monitoring,
        recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where possible, to
        similar federal or state requirements.

(VI)    Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for pneumatic controllers.

(VII)   As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(VIII) Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, methane, and
        other hydrocarbons to address SB 19-181 and help to attain the NAAQS. SB 19-
        181 specifically directs the Commission to “consider” revising its rules to adopt
        more stringent requirements related to pneumatic devices. The Commission
        determined that the alternate proposal was reasonable and cost-effective.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

To the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record support the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of methane, VOCs, and other hydrocarbons.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.


                                                                                        590
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of the regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

W.      July 16, 2021 (Part C, Section I., Part D, Section III., Part E, Section II.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis

On December 26, 2019, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reclassified the
Denver Metro North Front Range (DMNFR) to Serious, after 2015-2017 ozone data
failed to show attainment of the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standard (NAAQS). See 84 Fed. Reg. 247 (December 26, 2019). As a Serious area, the
major source threshold lowers from 100 tons per year (tpy) of VOC or NOx to 50 tpy.
Currently, the DMNFR is also designated as Marginal nonattainment for the 2015 ozone
NAAQS of 70 ppb. To ensure progress towards attainment of the 2008 and 2015 ozone
NAAQS, the Commission is adopting revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include
reasonably available control requirements (RACT) for process heaters at major sources
of NOx emissions and metal parts surface coating.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such
rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-
7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article
7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the
atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and
provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants.

Section 105(1)(a)(I) directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP)
to attain the NAAQS. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in
developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of



                                                                                         591
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also
authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the
entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6)
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2) of the Act
authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical air
pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources and emission control
regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions. The Commission is revising Regulation Number 7 to include
provisions in the SIP that require the implementation of RACT for process heaters at
major sources of NOx emissions and metal parts surface coating. The revisions also
correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found through the regulation.

Metal parts coating

The Commission has previously adopted requirements for metal surface coating based
on recommendations in EPA’s Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing
Stationary Sources – Volume VI: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and
Products (1978), including VOC content limits, work practices, and recordkeeping
requirements. However, EPA published a subsequent metal coating CTG, Control
Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts Coatings (Metal
Coating CTG), in 2008 that recommends expanding the coatings VOC content limits
from four to fifty, including work practices, application methods, and recordkeeping.
Therefore, in response to EPA’s concern with Colorado’s existing metal parts coating
requirements as based on EPA’s 1978 CTG, the Commission revised the metal surface
coating requirements to correspond to the recommendations in the 2008 Metal Coating
CTG.

Pneumatic controllers




                                                                                           592
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

In February 2021, the Commission adopted a consensus alternate proposal to reduce
emissions from existing pneumatic controllers at well production facilities and natural
gas compressor stations, in addition to the proposed emission reductions from
pneumatic controllers at new and modified facilities. The Commission now adopts a
revision correcting an inadvertent incorrect citation.

Major source RACT

Due to the reclassification to Serious, Colorado must submit revisions to its SIP to
address the Clean Air Act’s (CAA) Serious ozone nonattainment area requirements, as
set forth in CAA §§ 172 and 182(c) and the final SIP Requirements Rule for the 2008
Ozone NAAQS (See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)). A Serious SIP revision must
include provisions that require the implementation of RACT for major sources of VOC
and/or NOx (i.e., sources that emit or have the potential to emit 50 tpy or more) and for
each category of VOC sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline (CTG) for
which Colorado has sources in the DMNFR. Therefore, the Commission adopted
revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT requirements in Colorado’s ozone
SIP for process heaters at major sources of NOx emissions, specifically NOx emission
limits for natural gas-fired and refinery gas-fired process heaters with a heat input rate
greater than or equal to 5 MMBtu/hr.

The Commission also adopted performance testing requirements, and associated
recordkeeping, for natural gas-fired and refinery gas-fired process heaters greater than
or equal to 100 MMBtu/hr and natural gas-fired process heaters greater than or equal to
50 MMBtu/hr but less than 100 MMBtu/hr. The owners or operators must comply with
the applicable NOx emission limits by May 1, 2022, except where the process heater
requires a permitting action or facility shut-down, in which case owners or operators
must comply by May 31, 2023. The May 31, 2023, later compliance deadline for facility
shut-downs is intended to provide additional time where a substantial shutdown is
required to comply with the NOx limits in Table 2, even if the entire plant is not shut
down. The owners or operators of subject process heaters will continue to comply with
the combustion process adjustment and associated recordkeeping requirements. The
Commission also expanded these provisions to process heaters at sources that emit, or



                                                                                          593
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

have the potential to emit, 25 tpy NOx, in anticipation of a reclassification to Severe
nonattainment. While expanding these requirements to 25 tpy sources in advance of the
reclassification differs from the past timing approaches for including RACT for major
sources, this expansion is limited in scope (i.e., process heaters) and the Commission
does not anticipate expanding SIP RACT requirements in advance of a reclassification
to become a regular practice.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7, Part E, Section II.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone serious
nonattainment area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the
provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone
NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to satisfy
Colorado’s serious nonattainment area obligations. These revisions do not exceed or
differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in determining what control strategies to
implement to reduce emissions. However, where the proposal may differ from federal
rules under the federal act, in accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS, the
Commission determines:

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address process heaters operated by
       refineries and the oil and gas sector. NSPS J, NSPS Ja, NSPS XX, MACT CC,
       and MACT UUU may also apply to petroleum refinery equipment and operations.
       However, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis to more
       process heaters.


                                                                                          594
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP
        revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not
        determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. Similarly, EPA
        develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data, not
        Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area RACT obligations.
        Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its SIP directly, as the
        Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower 2015
        ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established Colorado’s SIP-RACT implementation deadlines. There is
        no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 strengthen Colorado’s SIP. These sections
        currently address emissions from process heaters and metal parts coating in a
        cost-effective manner, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7, Parts C and E establish reasonable equity
        for owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards
        for similarly situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
        Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
        This outcome may subject others to increased costs.



                                                                                          595
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable,
        such as the requirements for metal parts coating. The revisions concerning major
        sources of NOx generally reflect current emission controls and work practices.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help
        to attain the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in
        an unapprovable SIP.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone nonattainment area
requirements. However, to the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this
rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission
hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of VOCs and NOx emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.


                                                                                       596
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

X.      December 17, 2021 (Revisions to Part D, Sections I., II., III., V., and VI.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted revisions to
several Colorado Revised Statutes in Senate Bill 19-181 (SB 19-181) (Concerning
additional public welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations)
that include directives for both the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and the Air
Quality Control Commission. Further, the General Assembly declared in House Bill 19-
1261 (HB 19-1261) that “climate change adversely affects Colorado’s economy, air
quality and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life[,]”
acknowledged that “Colorado is already experiencing harmful climate impacts[,]” and
that “many of these impacts disproportionately affect” certain disadvantaged
communities. Colorado’s statewide greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals seek a 26%
reduction of statewide GHG emissions by 2025; 50% reduction by 2030; and 90%
reduction by 2050 as compared to 2005 levels.

In October 2020, the Commission established a target for the oil and gas sector of a
36% reduction from the 2005 baseline by 2025 and a 60% reduction from the 2005
baseline by 2030 (an estimated 13 million metric tons (MMT) CO2e by 2025 and 8 MMT
CO2e by 2030). Commission targets for the sector including residential, commercial,
and industrial combustion emissions (RCI Sector) seek a 20% reduction from 2005
numbers by 2030. House Bill 21-1266 (HB 21-1266), signed into law on July 2, 2021,
memorializes percentage reductions in statute, and provides additional requirements for
the rulemakings to achieve these goals. The GHG Pollution Reduction Roadmap (GHG
Roadmap) developed by the Colorado Energy Office and CDPHE identifies the largest


                                                                                          597
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

contributors to state GHG emissions and quantifies the baselines from which these
reduction percentages are to be estimated. The oil and gas industry is a large source of
GHG emissions, and the largest anthropogenic source of methane in Colorado. For the
oil and gas industry, not all of its emissions are found in the “O&G Sector”, also referred
to as the “Oil & Gas Fugitive Emissions” category of the GHG Roadmap. Methane
emissions from upstream and midstream activities, along with estimates of methane
“leakage” from pipelines in the transmission & storage and distribution segments, are in
the O&G Sector. In contrast, most of the emissions from fuel combustion at oil and gas
sources in the upstream and midstream segments are actually found in the “RCI Sector”
of the GHG Roadmap (specifically in the “industrial” category, which is the subject of
new HB 21-1266).

In this rulemaking action, the Commission adopted requirements for upstream and
midstream segment operations, to reduce GHG emissions from those operations,
sufficient - when taken in combination with other regulatory and voluntary actions across
the state - to achieve the GHG reduction requirements of HB 21-1266. The Commission
did not adopt regulations applicable to the transmission and storage segment or the
distribution segment. With regard to the transmission and storage segment, the
Commission adopted a performance-based program for this segment in 2019 designed
to materially reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transmission and storage
operations; reporting of progress has not yet begun under that program and the
Commission believes it reasonable to evaluate the progress of that program before
modifying it. The Commission did not adopt regulations applicable to the distribution
segment because legislation passed in the 2021 session invests the Colorado Public
Utility Commission (PUC) with authority over this segment of the oil and gas industry.
SB 21-264 requires that gas distribution utilities will submit a comprehensive clean heat
plan that demonstrates projected reductions in methane and carbon dioxide emissions
that meet prescribed reduction targets. Each clean heat plan must outline the utility’s
proposal to reduce carbon dioxide and methane emission levels by 4% in 2025 and
22% in 2030. Gas distribution utilities, depending on their size, must submit clean heat
plans to the PUC by August 1, 2023, and January 1, 2024. Thus, the Commission
believes that the transmission & storage performance program and the clean heat plans


                                                                                         598
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

are likely to achieve reductions of emissions necessary from these segments to achieve
the goals of §25-7-105(1)(e)(XII).

In the 2021 legislative session, in HB 21-1266, the General Assembly determined that
“state action to correct environmental injustice is imperative, and state policy can and
should improve public health and the environment and improve the overall well-being of
all communities… [and] efforts to right past wrongs and move toward environmental
justice must focus on disproportionately impacted communities and the voices of their
residents.” HB 21-1266 also requires the Commission to ensure that there are additional
protections for, and reductions of co-pollutants in, disproportionately impacted
communities. CDPHE developed a map of the disproportionately impacted communities
that meet the definition of HB 21-1266. While this map is expected to change over time,
the disproportionately impacted communities that have been identified at the time of this
program’s adoption are as set forth in the following map:




                                                                                       599
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of Article 7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially
any gas emitted into the atmosphere and provides the Commission broad authority to
regulate air pollutants. § 25-7-301 directs the Commission to develop a program
providing for the attainment and maintenance of each national ambient air quality
standard in each nonattainment area of the state. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission
maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such
combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations
applicable to the entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution.




                                                                                            600
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

§ 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of
any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information. § 25-7-109(10)
directs the Commission to adopt emission control regulations to minimize emissions of
methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from oil and gas operations. Pursuant to
HB 21-1266, the Commission must, by January 1, 2022, adopt regulations to ensure
that the state meets its greenhouse gas reduction targets for the oil and gas sector
(36% by 2025 and 60% by 2030). The Commission must also ensure that industrial
sector emissions (including those from oil and gas fuel combustion equipment) are
reduced by 20% from the 2015 baseline by 2030. These revisions to Regulation
Number 7 will, taking into account other relevant laws and rules (including the revisions
to Regulation Number 22 adopted as part of this rulemaking action), as well as
voluntary actions taken by local communities and the private sector, achieve the state’s
GHG reduction goals through 2030 for the oil and gas industry. The revisions include
protections for disproportionately impacted communities that ensure reductions of
pollutants other than GHGs, additional requirements for monitoring and leak detection
and repair, and improve the state's current emission inventory reporting program in
Regulation Number 7, Part D.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, Part D, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for
the adoption of the revisions.

SIP revisions to address the Oil and Gas CTG: Section I.

As a moderate ozone nonattainment area, Colorado was required to revise its State
Implementation Plan (SIP) to address Clean Air Act (CAA) moderate ozone
nonattainment area requirements as forth in CAA § 182(b) and the final SIP
Requirements Rule for the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS)
(See 80 Fed. Reg. 12264 (March 6, 2015)), including revising its SIP to include
reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements for each category of
volatile organic compound (VOC) sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline
(CTG) for which Colorado had sources in the Denver Metro North Front Range


                                                                                       601
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(DMNFR) ozone nonattainment area. EPA finalized the Oil and Gas Control Techniques
Guidelines (Oil and Gas CTG) on October 27, 2016. In a 2017 rulemaking, the
Commission carefully considered what recommended provisions to include in
Colorado’s SIP. The Commission considered its discretion in adopting recommendations
in a CTG, and Colorado’s already existing emission control requirements that
addressed most of the same sources covered by EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG but were not
identical to the recommendations in the Oil and Gas CTG. The Commission submitted
SIP revisions addressing the Oil and Gas CTG to EPA in May 2018.

In June 2021, EPA proposed to approve these SIP revisions (see 86 Fed. Reg. 32656).
However, in September 2021, as a result of public comments received on the proposed
approval, EPA requested that Colorado strengthen associated monitoring requirements
for combustion devices controlling storage vessels and wet seal centrifugal
compressors. In this action, the Commission adopted targeted revisions to Section I. to
further align with EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG. Specifically, the Commission adopted
performance testing, or demonstration of manufacturer testing, for combustion
equipment used to control emissions from storage vessels, as defined in EPA’s Oil and
Gas CTG, and wet seal centrifugal compressors.

The Commission adopted language corresponding to the recommendations in the EPA’s
Oil and Gas CTG and provides the following clarifications as related to purpose, intent,
and terminology. Concerning the purpose of the performance test, EPA’s Oil and Gas
CTG recommends the performance test to demonstrate compliance with the
recommended level of control, which is a 95% reduction of VOC emissions from storage
vessels and a 95% reduction of VOC emissions from centrifugal compressor wet seal
fluid degassing systems. As EPA discusses in the Oil and Gas CTG, if an owner or
operator complies with the recommended RACT by using a combustion device, initial
and periodic performance testing of the device is recommended. The performance test
will demonstrate that the combustion device reduces the mass content of VOC in the
gases vented to the device by at least 95% by weight.

Concerning the terms “potential for VOC emissions” and “(controlled actual emissions)”
in the storage vessel applicability provision, the Commission adopted language



                                                                                     602
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

corresponding to the recommended applicability provision in EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG,
which is based on EPA’s NSPS OOOO and OOOOa. The Commission included the
phrase “(controlled actual emissions)” in recognition of more extensive storage tank
control requirements in Section I., as related to the recommendations in EPA’s Oil and
Gas CTG for storage vessels, and not to allow and operator to use a different
calculation methodology than that used to determine the storage vessel’s potential for
VOC emissions. The Commission intends for the Division to determine whether storage
vessels are subject to the performance testing requirement adopted in this December
2021 rulemaking, in the same manner the Division currently determines whether a
storage vessel is subject to NSPS OOOO, including averaging emissions across the
number of storage vessels in the battery as included in EPA’s NSPS.

Concerning “generally accepted model or calculation methodology,” “30-day period of
production,” and “legally and practically enforceable limit,” the Commission also intends
these phrases to be applied as the Division already applies them for NSPS OOOO. The
Commission recognizes that the Division provides guidance on acceptable calculation
methods and has issued guidance, “Interpretation of “Practically Enforceable” Limits for
Storage Vessels Addressed under NSPS OOOO” (Oct. 15, 2013), clarifying where
operators may take credit for permit required controls. The Commission intends for the
Division to apply the applicability provision in Section I.E.3.a., which is the CTG
recommended applicability and based on EPA’s NSPS OOOO and OOOOa, as the
Division currently applies such applicability provisions under NSPS OOOO.

Definitions: Section II.A.

The Commission has adopted definitions for new terms to facilitate implementation of
the new regulatory programs. Where these terms are also proposed for definition in
Regulation Number 22, these explanations are intended to address both regulations.

The Commission has revised the definition of Approved Instrument Monitoring Method
(AIMM) to clarify that when the Division approves an alternative AIMM, the Division’s
approved AIMM may address both AIMM and AVO leak inspections.

The Commission intended to define “disproportionately impacted community” consistent
with the definition in HB 21-1266. However, the statute does not specifically identify


                                                                                         603
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

which communities are considered disproportionately impacted. CDPHE is developing a
tool, called “enviroscreen” that will be utilized for members of the public and the
regulated community to understand which communities in Colorado are
disproportionately impacted. However, this tool was not ready at the time of this
rulemaking. Therefore, the Commission has determined that the disproportionately
impacted communities existing at the time of adoption of this program, and therefore the
communities in which provisions of this program apply, are identified in the map. The
Commission has included, in the definition of this term, a reference to the climate equity
data map at which more detail can be seen of the boundaries of the disproportionately
impacted communities addressed by this rulemaking. The Commission has also
referenced a list of the census block groups by 12-digit FIPS code covered by the map
incorporated into the definition, identifying what census blocks are disproportionately
impacted communities as of the date of this rulemaking. The Commission intends that
the Division will preserve a copy of the map and the accompanying list in place at the
time of this rulemaking such that sources may use the map and list as a guide for
understanding the applicability of requirements.

The Commission defined “midstream segment,” “natural gas processing segment,”
“natural gas transmission and storage segment,” and “oil and natural gas compression
segment” in this regulation to be consistent with definitions in other regulations,
including Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section IV. and Regulation Number 22, Part B,
Sections III. and IV.

Air Pollution Control Equipment: Section II.B.

The Commission established updated maintenance and performance test requirements
for air pollution control equipment in Section II.B. In Section II.B.2.f., the Commission
set forth the weekly visual inspections required for all air pollution control equipment
used to comply with Section II. In this context, the Commission intends “weekly” to
mean every seven calendar days. These requirements - as they applied to air pollution
control equipment controlling storage tanks - were previously located in Section II.C.1.d.
of this regulation (in Section II.C.1. and II.C.3., the Commission repealed these
provisions that moved to Section II.B.2.); however, to ensure requirements for air



                                                                                           604
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

pollution control equipment were in one location, the Commission has repealed the
provisions of Section II.C.1.d. that are now found in Section II.B.2.f. The Commission
does not intend that there is any period of time where air pollution control equipment is
not subject to either Section II.C.1.d. or II.B.2.f.

Section II.B.2.g. requires owners and operators to install and operate a flow meter at the
inlet to enclosed combustion equipment (or a bank of enclosed combustion devices)
used as air pollution control equipment covered by this section, with some exceptions. A
flow meter is a device that measures the amount of gas entering the enclosed
combustion device and can be used to help determine whether an enclosed combustion
device is functioning properly. The Commission believes that flow meters are an
important tool to help the Division ensure that air pollution control equipment achieves
at least 95% control efficiency for hydrocarbons, comparing flow rates against the high
end flow limitations of the enclosed combustion device used to ensure that the enclosed
combustion device is being operated within the design parameters. In Section
II.B.3.g.(iii)(C), the Commission recognizes that the use of flow meters may not always
be feasible; for example, flow meters can be less effective where the control device is a
“low flow” device - i.e. where the flow to the device is not consistent or high enough to
achieve generally accurate readings from the meter. The Commission encourages
operators to provide alternative mechanisms for tracking flow data (or other Division-
approved parameter) to air pollution control equipment for those situations in which flow
meters are less effective or accurate. Where an operator has submitted a plan for the
use of an alternate parameter under Section II.B.2.g.(iii)(C), the Commission directs the
Division to promptly review and approve or deny appropriate alternative monitoring
mechanisms or parameters to ensure operators may meet the applicable deadlines in
Section II.B.2. However, the burden remains on the operator to comply with the
regulation or, where approved, the provisions of the alternative approval. The
Commission intends that if the flow meter is not connected to automation to
continuously record flow, it should be capable of storing at least two weeks of data.

In Section II.B.2.h., the Commission established performance testing requirements for
enclosed combustion devices. Truly voluntary control equipment is not subject to these
provisions. Historically, the Commission has assumed that enclosed combustion


                                                                                        605
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

devices were achieving at least 95% control efficiency for hydrocarbons. However, the
Commission determined that it was appropriate to promulgate regulatory requirements
that will additionally ensure that enclosed combustion devices in the state are, in fact,
operating at and achieving 95% control efficiency for hydrocarbons emitted from
equipment controlled in accordance with requirements in Regulation Number 7, Part D,
Sections I.D., II.C.1., II.D., or II.F. (Note: this requirement is not intended to include
performance testing for combustion of pilot light gas only.) In Section II.B.2.h.(i)(H), the
Commission does not require retesting if an enclosed combustion device is replaced
with a newly manufactured enclosed combustion device. However, the Commission
intends that this apply only where the issue causing the failing test would be addressed
by replacement of the device itself, and the failing test was not due to some other
cause.

Section II.B.2.h.(ii)(A) contains a table that sets forth the schedule for the initial testing
of enclosed combustion devices that commenced operation before December 31, 2021
(unless the Division approves an alternative testing schedule). The Commission
prioritized the testing of enclosed combustion devices in disproportionately impacted
communities and, after that, devices in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area/northern Weld
County.

Some stakeholders wanted the Commission to formally adopt these requirements as
part of expanding the nonattainment area boundary for the 2015 ozone NAAQS;
however, at the time of the proposal for this regulation, the state was still waiting on final
action from the U.S. EPA, and such a change must be accomplished in the SIP, not in
Section II. of Regulation Number 7, Part D, which contains state-only requirements.

The Commission strongly encourages owners and operators to prioritize the testing of
the enclosed combustion devices at the biggest sites and the oldest enclosed
combustion devices. The Commission believes that underperforming, older enclosed
combustion devices at large sites could be responsible for a larger portion of
uncontrolled emissions and, therefore, such devices should be identified sooner rather
than later in order to more effectively limit the amount of uncontrolled emissions. In
addition, the Commission believes that, due to their age, older enclosed combustion



                                                                                             606
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

devices are more likely to malfunction and, therefore, underperform than newer
enclosed combustion devices. Thus, the Commission believes that a greater amount of
uncontrolled emissions could be avoided by prioritizing the testing, and corresponding
improvement in performance, of higher capacity or older enclosed combustion devices,
especially those in disproportionately impacted communities. However, the Commission
also recognizes that older enclosed combustion devices may not have been
manufactured or installed with appropriate ports for traditional stack test methods, which
will affect timing for performance testing where modifications to existing equipment must
first be made. Such considerations should be included as operators develop schedules
to perform required testing.

With regard to the testing schedule and other testing deadlines set forth in Section
II.B.2.h.(ii) (see, for example, Section II.B.2.h.(ii)(C)), an enclosed combustion device
that is relocated by an owner or operator to another facility that is also controlled by that
same owner or operator may maintain the same testing schedule as if it had not been
relocated.

Section II.B.2.h.(iii) provides that owners or operators of enclosed combustion devices
subject to Section II.B.2.h.(ii) must submit a notification to the Division with certain
specified information no later than July 31, 2022. Such notification must be submitted in
writing and may be amended as long as the testing schedule set forth in Section
II.B.2.h.(ii) is met. Section II.B.2.h.(iii)(A) identifies some of the specific information that
must be included in the notification, including the location of the enclosed combustion
device. When providing the location of the enclosed combustion device in a written
notification, the owner or operator must also state whether or not the enclosed
combustion device is located within a disproportionately impacted community and/or the
8-hour Ozone Control Area/northern Weld County.

The Commission has determined that performance tests must be conducted pursuant to
a Division-approved protocol. The Commission intends that as an alternative to a site-
specific protocol, operators may submit to the Division a company-specific protocol for
approval for that company’s different types of site configurations, to which an operator
would certify that it followed for each performance test conducted pursuant to that



                                                                                             607
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

protocol. The Commission also anticipates that the U.S. EPA will be releasing a protocol
for an outlet-only testing method and directs the Division to consider publishing that
protocol on its website as a pre-approved test protocol for enclosed combustion device
performance testing, to which operators would certify they followed in conducting a
performance test. The Division may also develop a statewide protocol that may be
followed by any owner or operator. If utilizing the Division’s statewide protocol, an owner
or operator need only provide a notice prior to conducting testing pursuant to the
protocol. The Commission also directs the Division to consider approving different
protocols for different types of devices. For example, the Commission would support a
different test protocol for devices operating at such low-flow that supplementing the gas
stream to the device would be required for purposes of the test. Given the evolving and
innovative work and study in this area to evaluate the performance of enclosed
combustion devices, the Commission recognizes that protocols may be developed,
subject to Division approval, that don’t result in a strictly numeric destruction efficiency
evaluation, such as a traditional stack test, and those may be approvable protocols, in
which case, the protocol will identify the metric by which the testing will be considered
passing or failing.

The Commission understands that development of performance testing protocols is
important to meeting the performance testing deadlines and directs the Division to
develop, by August 1, 2022, a standard protocol framework for performance testing to
allow operators to meet the required testing timelines, and by October 31, 2022, an
alternative protocol to a traditional stack test for low-flow ECDs where appropriate. The
Commission further directs the Division to review proposed companywide performance
testing protocols within six months of receipt of the proposal or, where approval or
denial cannot be accomplished in that time frame and where the protocol was submitted
with adequate time to implement testing after Division approval, to consider approving
alternative testing schedules. However, the inability of the Division to develop standard
protocols or to approve a performance test protocol within the time frames provided
does not relieve the operator of the duty to comply with this regulation.




                                                                                          608
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Performance testing requirements under Regulation Number 7 do not limit the division’s
authority to otherwise require performance tests under Common Provisions, Section
II.C. including those required as the outcome of approving a construction permit.

Section II.B.2.h.(i)(D) sets forth requirements for flow meter installation for each
enclosed combustion device subject to Section II.B.2.h. Flow meters are necessary for
certain performance test methodologies, specifically for inlet and outlet testing
protocols. Therefore, while permanent flow meters are required for individual or banks
of enclosed combustion devices under Section II.B.2.g., a temporary or permanent flow
meter must be installed for the time period of performance testing on each individual
enclosed combustion device. Where the Division approves an alternate protocol or
methodology that doesn’t require a flow meter for accurate determination of control
efficiency, owners or operators will not need to install a flow meter in accordance with
this requirement.

In Section II.B.2.h.(i)(E), the Commission explained how operators should use the
results of the performance test in calculating emissions for purposes of the annual
emissions inventory reporting under Sections II.G and V. If a performance test is
conducted on June 1, the enclosed combustion device fails the test, a retest is
conducted on July 1, and the enclosed combustion device passes the retest, the
operator should use the results of the failing performance test for emission calculations
from January 1 through June 30, and may use the results of the passing performance
test from July 1 through December 31 of that year.

In Sections II.B.2.i and II.B.2.j., the Commission established recordkeeping and
reporting requirements. The Commission deferred most of the reporting to the annual
emission reports in Section V, but did require some additional reporting. When an
enclosed combustion device fails its performance test, the Commission believes it is
critical that the Division be made aware as soon as possible, and so has required
notification be provided within thirty (30) days of a failing test. The Commission intends
that for reporting under Section II.B.2.j.(i), owners or operators will submit with the
notice of the failing test the monthly emissions of methane and VOC and monthly
throughput (production or throughput of either natural gas or oil to the equipment being



                                                                                          609
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

controlled) back to the beginning of the calendar year of the failed test. The Commission
intends that operators will still comply with the Division’s Compliance Test Protocol.

The Commission directs the Division to gather additional information about ECDs to
better understand the life cycle of the devices. For example: the degradation of the
devices over time, appropriate testing schedules, efficiency over time, and
characteristics of the failure rate. The Commission also requests that the Division report
back to the Commission with this information within 24 months.

Rod packing at natural gas processing plants: Section II.B.3.

In 2014, the Commission recognized that rod-packing replacement is an effective, and
cost-effective, method for reducing emissions from this equipment - both VOC and other
hydrocarbons. However, the Commission’s 2014 action applied only to reciprocating
compressors at compressor stations, and not gas plants. In 2017, the Commission
adopted rod-packing replacement requirements for compressors at gas plants in the 8-
hour Ozone Control Area. In this rulemaking, in Section II.B.3., the Commission
expands rod packing replacement requirements to natural gas processing plants
statewide except where the reciprocating compressor is subject to the rod packing
requirements of New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) OOOO or NSPS OOOOa.
Under these revisions, beginning upon the effective date, anticipated for February 14,
2022, operators will need to track hours of operation for purposes of compliance.

Owners or operators are required to change reciprocating compressor rod packing on or
before 26,000 hours of operation. Owners or operators may elect to change the rod
packing every 36 months instead of monitoring compressor operating hours. However,
the owner or operator must begin measuring hours or months on February 14, 2022,
and then change the rod packing on the applicable schedule of the parameter the owner
or operator elects to measure. While this provision builds upon current reciprocating
compressor rod packing requirements where this schedule was understood, the
Commission now clarifies that owners or operators must utilize one measurement
parameter per rod packing replacement cycle.

In Section II.B.3.c., the Commission clarified that the rod packing requirements adopted
in 2014 did not apply where the compressor was subject to the reciprocating


                                                                                         610
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

compressor requirements of NSPS OOOO. The revision to specifically identify the rod
packing requirements was not a change to the meaning of the provision.

Leak Detection and Repair: Sections II.E. and II.I.

Section II.E. of Regulation Number 7 establishes additional requirements under the leak
detection and repair (LDAR) program for well production facilities and natural gas
compressor stations. In 2014, 2017, and 2019, the Commission established LDAR
inspection frequencies to identify leaking components and require repairs in a timely
fashion to eliminate excess emissions. LDAR inspection frequencies are typically based
on the rolling twelve-month tons per year fugitive VOC emission rates of well production
facilities and compressor stations and their location.

In 2019, the Commission adopted more stringent inspection and repair requirements for
well production facilities in proximity to an occupied area. In this rulemaking action, the
Commission increased the frequency of inspections at compressor stations and well
production facilities statewide, in proximity to occupied areas, and in disproportionately
impacted communities (see map for the specific communities in which these
requirements apply). The Commission has determined that faster repair schedules and
additional monitoring is required to protect public health and the environment within
these disproportionately impacted communities.

In Section II.E.4.f., the Commission has set a static frequency of AIMM inspections for
newly constructed well production facilities - regardless of emissions. That is, any newly
constructed well production facility will have a monthly AIMM inspection frequency. The
Commission also increased inspection frequencies for most well production facilities
with emissions below 50 tpy (or below 20 tpy for tankless facilities) and created a new
Table 5 which will inform required LDAR frequencies beginning January 1, 2023. The
new table includes increased inspection frequencies at well production facilities in
disproportionately impacted communities and within 1,000 feet of occupied areas.

The Commission does want to encourage the use of alternative design techniques and
technologies, rather than just the traditional infrared (IR) camera. Technological
advances in leak detection can outpace regulations. The Commission expects that
many new technologies can be approved through the Division’s existing alternative


                                                                                         611
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

AIMM review process. The Commission does note, however, that some alternative
AIMM may be appropriate for statewide inspection requirements, but not to supersede
SIP inspection requirements (e.g., requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part D,
Section I.L.). The Commission encourages the Division to consider, where appropriate,
approving technologies as alternative AIMM for purposes of this Section II.E. even
where the technology may not be approvable as alternative AIMM for Section I.L. The
Commission also requests that the Division work with stakeholders and parties to this
rule in 2022 to consider the opportunities to employ advanced screening and/or
continuous monitoring as alternative AIMM.

The Commission has also recognized two scenarios where well production facilities
need not conduct AIMM inspections in accordance with the newly increased
frequencies. These scenarios include: 1) where the operator installs and uses systems
to continuously monitor and adjust pressures in the storage tanks to prevent venting
and to ensure lit pilot lights and 2) where the operator constructs a tankless well
production facility (i.e., no hydrocarbon liquid storage tanks except for a maintenance or
surge tank) with automation to provide operational feedback, non-emitting pneumatic
devices, and without gas-fired engines for compression or primary power generation.
For the first scenario, the Commission directs the Division to issue a protocol for the use
of these automated systems, based on the Division’s work in evaluating closed loop
vapor control systems. In the second scenario, AIMM inspections must be completed on
a semi-annual basis. For both scenarios, if an operator were to cease using any of
these scenarios, the facility would immediately revert to a monthly AIMM schedule or
schedule based upon Table 5, as applicable.

In Section II.I., the Commission determined that natural gas processing plants state-
wide must now have LDAR programs consistent with NSPS OOOO or OOOOa, rather
than just the gas plants in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area.

In Sections II.E.7.a.(iv) and II.I.1.b., the Commission considered requirements for
leaking equipment and components that are placed on delay of repair and, specifically,
required operators to mitigate emissions from leaking components on delay of repair
and document the efforts. At natural gas processing plants, the Commission would like



                                                                                        612
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

to encourage operators to consider drill and tap as a method of fixing component leaks
while reducing equipment blowdowns, where feasible. The Commission also
understands that low-e valves are cost effective and beneficial in reducing fugitive
emissions from components and recommends that operators consider low-e valves as
they replace and repair leaking equipment and construct new facilities.

Separator Control Requirements: Section II.F.

Section II.F. had previously required capture or control of hydrocarbon emissions from
separation equipment for a well-constructed, fracked, or recompleted after 2014. In this
revision, the Commission required the capture or control of hydrocarbon emissions from
all separation equipment, regardless of construction date. This is consistent with the
recent Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) mission change
rulemaking, which essentially requires capture and prohibits the venting or even flaring
of gas from the separation equipment unless a variance is obtained from the COGCC.
Where the COGCC determines that a variance for venting (as that term is defined by
the COGCC) is appropriate, that operation is exempt from Section II.F.2. of the
Commission’s regulation (though not from Section II.F.1. or other applicable provisions,
such as Regulation Number 3 reporting and permitting or Regulation Number 7, Part D,
Section V. annual emission reporting).

Further, Section II.F. was revised to clarify that all control equipment controlling
separators is subject to Section II.B.2. requirements (separators subject to Section II.F.
were already subject to Section II.B.1.).

Well Maintenance Requirements: Section II.G.

Certain activities - such as well liquids unloading, well maintenance events, and well
plugging - can result in emissions to the atmosphere. The Commission has long
required that operators use best management practices to reduce the need to emit
during these activities, and to reduce the amount of gas emitted during these activities.
However, the Commission has determined that it is necessary to specify some of the
practices that must be employed. Section II.G.1.c. therefore identifies several best
management practices that operators must use to reduce the need for emissions from
all these activities. For example, the Commission intends that in constructing a new well


                                                                                         613
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

production facility, operators must consider how to reduce the need for well liquids
unloading or well maintenance over the life of the well, and design accordingly. As
another example, the use of an artificial lift, such as a plunger lift, can both reduce the
need to emit during well liquids unloading and reduce the volume of gas emitted during
a manual liquids unloading event.

The Commission also recognizes that well unloading occurs to remove liquid build-up to
restore productivity. When attempting to relieve atmospheric pressure through emitting
to the atmosphere to remove liquid buildup in these wells, particularly when the
emissions occur multiple times each year over the life of a well, there can be significant
hydrocarbon emissions. The Commission considers well swabbing to be a well liquids
unloading event. Technology and practices have advanced such that it is possible to
use equipment - including equipment more typically considered process equipment - to
reduce the need to emit during well liquids unloading. The Commission has established
thresholds at which well liquids unloading activities must be controlled. These capture or
control requirements apply as of January 1, 2023; however, the Commission does not
intend that the “counting” of unloads will begin on January 1, 2023. Instead, for
determining whether control is required as of January 1, 2023, the operator must look
back over the preceding 12 months - i.e. calendar year 2022 - to consider if any of the
thresholds are met.

The regulation speaks to well production facilities that “have” wells with specified
numbers of unloading events. The regulation includes all wells producing into that well
production facility - the wellhead itself need not be physically located within the
boundaries of the well production facility. Most of the thresholds speak to well
production facilities where operators conduct a specified number of unloading events -
unless explicitly otherwise stated, the Commission intends this to account for unloading
events from all wells producing into that facility. For example, under Section
II.G.1.d.(ii)(A), capture or control is required if the number of unloading events at the
well production facility totals six or more; at a well production facility with 3 wells, this
threshold is reached where each well is unloaded to the atmosphere twice in that six-
month period.



                                                                                            614
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission’s existing regulation in Section II.G.2.b. requires operators to maintain,
among other things, the date, time, and duration of unloading events resulting in
emissions to the atmosphere. The Commission intends that the failure to keep required
records leads to a presumption that control would have been required for such events.

The Commission understands that, infrequently, a nearby hydraulic fracturing event
(i.e., an “offset frac”) can cause a well to fill up with water, necessitating the unloading of
that well to remove the water. The Commission believes that such unloading events - so
long as they are limited in scope and duration - should not be counted toward the
applicability thresholds of this rule, which is directed at wells that can be expected to
have routine or predictable unloading operations (with emissions to atmosphere). The
timing of the notice of the offset frac in Section II.G.1.d.(iii) is intended to be consistent
with the COGCC rule addressing the same notification. The Commission intends that if
the Division later determines the claim of offset frac was not valid for a particular event
or series of events, the operator bears the risk of not having employed capture or
control techniques. Further, the Commission emphasizes that it expects this to be a
"limited-use" exemption, subject to removal from the rule if overused.

For recordkeeping and reporting purposes, the Commission intends that operators
directly measure the volume of gas emitted during liquids unloading events and report
that information to the Division annually. The Commission included this measurement
and reporting requirement due to the uncertainty regarding the reliability of estimated
volumes reported to EPA under GHGRP and reported to the Division under Regulation
Number 7 annual emission reporting. However, the Commission encourages the
Division to work with operators on using direct measurement of volumes vented during
unloading to, as appropriate, develop updated calculation methodologies or emission
factors to use in reporting emissions from well liquids unloading.

Pigging and Blowdown Requirements: Section II.H.

The Commission was presented with data reported to EPA and to the Division that
generally agrees that the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions from the
midstream segment is the fuel combustion equipment; however, these data sets also
agree that emissions (particularly methane emissions) from operations and


                                                                                            615
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

maintenance activities - such as pigging and blowdowns - are significant, and, the
Commission has determined they are cost-effective to address.

The Commission recognizes that depressurizing pig launchers and receivers or blowing
down compressors and other equipment in natural gas gathering operations can emit
VOCs. Emissions associated with the removal of oxygen from equipment to place
equipment into service after a blowdown are not subject to Section II.H. in order to
safely operate the equipment. This gas released from pigging and blowdown activities is
under the same pressure as the pipeline and contains methane, ethane, and VOCs
including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene. Pig receivers can also contain
collected condensate liquid that had accumulated in the pipeline.

The Commission mandated that owners or operators capture and recover gas from
pigging and blowdown activities, and if not possible, to request Division approval to
install and operate air pollution control equipment, such as vapor recovery,
flare/combustors, or a Division-approved alternative to achieve a 95% reduction in
hydrocarbon emissions. The Commission has a strong preference for capture and
recovery established in this regulation, but does allow for control or use of a closed vent
system. The Commission intends that the reference to closed vent system here is
consistent with the requirements of Part D, Section I. and NSPS OOOOa, 40 CFR
60.481a.

The Commission adopted requirements to require capture or control of emissions from
pigging operations in all cases where the pigging unit is attached to a pigging pipeline
with an outside diameter of 12 inches or more and with a normal operating pressure
greater than or equal to 500 psig. The Commission defined normal operating pressure
by reference to the annual average operating pressure. However, if an operator makes
an engineering adjustment to the pigging pipeline that lowers the operating pressure to
below the 500 psig threshold (assuming that this engineering adjustment is not truly
temporary in nature), the Commission does not intend that the operator has to wait a
year for the annual average operating pressure to drop before falling out of applicability.
Additional requirements to capture or control are dependent on emission thresholds of
both VOC and methane, and the thresholds are the most stringent in disproportionately



                                                                                        616
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

impacted communities. The Commission included thresholds for both constituents
because of the difference in gas composition between the front range and the rest of the
state. The Commission is establishing the specific thresholds and performance
standards on pigging units and blowdowns in the midstream sector based on specific
operational and emissions data associated with the midstream segment in Colorado.

Further, the Commission is requiring capture or control of emissions from pigging
operations that commence operation after the effective date of this rule, where the
pigging unit is attached to a high-pressure pipeline (regardless of diameter) and at
certain specified emission thresholds. In addition, to encourage innovative engineering
of and practices at future natural gas compressor stations, natural gas processing
plants, and standalone pigging stations, the Commission adopted Section II.H.1.d.,
which requires an operator to analyze and implement engineering technologies and
capabilities and operational practices that maximize the capture and recovery of
hydrocarbon emissions from pigging operations and other equipment and piping that
are routinely blown down. The Commission intends that this analysis be undertaken at
the time of initial facility design and development. Similarly, to minimize emissions
associated with the equipment necessary to power the capture and control equipment,
the Commission adopted Section II.H.3.e. This section provides that where a natural
gas compressor station or natural gas processing plant is connected to the electrical
grid, the operator should use that electric grid as the source of power for the equipment
required for capture and recovery techniques, where technically and economically
feasible.

The Commission intends that this analysis be undertaken at the time the pigging unit or
piping and equipment must comply with Section II.H., whether by January 1, 2023, or
sometime after that initial compliance date. For example, if an operator adds a pigging
unit in 2024, and the operator intends to use gas recovery equipment to capture the
emissions, the operator must conduct an evaluation of whether it is technically and
economically feasible to power that gas recovery equipment through grid power. In
order to demonstrate compliance with Sections II.H.1.d. and II.H.3.e., the operator must
retain the record of that determination and the basis therefor. Under both these
provisions, it is not the Commission’s intent that the Division second-guess the


                                                                                        617
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

reasonable engineering, design, and business judgment of the operator. The
Commission recognizes that these analyses may contain confidential business
information.

In Sections II.H.1.a.(iii) and II.H.1.a.(iv), the Commission understands that capturing or
controlling emissions from small blowdown events, either from compressors or other
equipment, is often cost prohibitive (when looked at on a per-blowdown or per-
equipment basis) and may result in more emissions from the capture and control efforts
than what is reduced based upon the fuel source for the capture or recovery equipment.
Therefore, the Commission has included that blowdown events from compressors or
equipment, where between isolation valves the total volume is less than 50 cubic feet,
do not need to be included in emission calculations toward the thresholds nor do they
need to be captured or controlled. However, the Commission feels it is important to
better understand the frequency and number of such events. If an owner or operator is
found not to be keeping the required records relating to blowdown events greater than 1
cubic foot and under 50 cubic feet, the regulatory presumption is that capture or control
was required for equipment blowdown events, and noncompliance is not a simple
recordkeeping violation.

Further, in Sections II.H.1.c.(vii) and II.H.1.c.(viii), the Commission provided that when a
source previously not subject to capture or control has emissions that meet or exceed
the applicability thresholds, that source will have sixty (60) days from the first day of the
month after meeting/exceeding the thresholds to comply with the capture or control
requirements. The Commission believes that operators should be tracking emissions
such that they can generally predict when a source will exceed thresholds and should
prepare accordingly. However, the Commission understands that sometimes
unforeseeable events will cause an emissions increase. Under such circumstances, the
Commission encourages operators to reach out to the Division prior to missing a
compliance deadline, and directs the Division to work with those operators to ensure
capture and recovery begins as soon as practicable, which may be more than 60 days.

The Commission also provided, in Sections II.H.3.e and II.H.3.f, that capture and
recovery is not always required. Capture and recovery is only required during normal



                                                                                         618
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

operations - i.e. not during malfunctions. And capture and recovery is not required
during emergency shutdown systems testing, such as would be required under OSHA’s
Process Safety Management standard. Further, in Section II.H.3.g, the Commission
provided that capture or recovery is not required on certain vessels; however,
uncontrolled actual emissions from blowdowns of these vessels (if greater than 50 cf)
must be included in the calculations for purposes of the general applicability of control
requirements. Operators must look at uncontrolled actual emissions from blowdowns - if
a piece of equipment is blown down and the emissions are controlled, the uncontrolled
actual emissions from that blowdown event still count toward the applicability threshold.
The Commission does not intend that its requirements for capture and control place
operators in a situation to choose between compliance with this program and
compliance with federal regulatory programs for leak detection. Thus, to the extent there
are limited situations where an operator cannot reasonably capture or control the
blowdown emissions necessary to fix a leak within the timelines required by federal
programs, and under those same federal programs would be prohibited from placing
that leak on delay of repair, operators must keep records of these events, and include
information about these events on the annual emission reports submitted pursuant to
Section V. Under these limited circumstances, compliance with the federal rules will
generally not be deemed non-compliance with Section II.H. The Commission further
directs the Division to consider whether future revisions to this program are necessary
to address this type of conflict or others that may arise in the implementation.

The Commission, in addition to the capture and control requirements for pigging and
blowdowns, also requires the use of certain best practices to reduce either the need or
frequency of pigging and blowdown events or reduce the emissions from those
activities. The Commission understands that not all best practices are viable for every
location, however, and so in Section II.H.4.c., the Commission requires certain best
practices to be used unless not feasible. For economic feasibility, operators bear the
burden of demonstrating to the Division, upon request, that a particular decision not to
use this best practice was not economically feasible, including providing specifics as to
the costs used in the evaluation. Such costs do not appropriately include all indirect
costs, such as internal overhead or administrative costs.


                                                                                         619
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission mandated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in Sections
II.H.6. and V. applicable to pigging operations and blowdown activities to ensure
compliance with and to track the efficacy of the established emission reduction
measures. Emissions from pigging and blowdowns must be separately included in
Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section V. annual reports. The records for pigging
activities must include the total number of pigging events, even if not subject to capture
or control.

The records must outline the location, date, time, and duration of the blowdown
emissions, including records of the date, location, and equipment for which there are
blowdown events where the volume between isolation valves is less than 50 cubic feet
(but greater than 1 cubic foot for piping and equipment). Where Section II.H.5.b.(i)
requires recordkeeping of the pressure of the pigging unit before and after capture and
recovery (if applicable) and immediately before emissions to the atmosphere, the
Commission is seeking information regarding the volume of gas emitted. Therefore,
where capture and recovery techniques are employed, the Commission is seeking the
starting pressure of the pigging unit prior to capture and recovery and the pressure of
the pigging unit after capture and recovery but before the emission of the residual gas.
As an example, if the pigging unit is at 900 psig before sending the gas to a low-
pressure line by jumper line and at 50 psig where the remaining residual volume of gas
is emitted to atmosphere, the operator would report a starting pressure of 900 psig and
an ending pressure of 50 psig. Then, the emissions from the release to atmosphere of
the remaining 50 psig down to 0 psig would be recorded as actual emissions as
required by Sections II.H.5.b.(ii) and V. Where no capture and recovery techniques are
employed, the Commission understands that the ending pressure will always be 0 psig.

The Commission also updated Sections II.C.2.a. and III.C. to reflect that the “operate
without venting” mandate, and associated recordkeeping, applies during pigging and
blowdown activities where reductions are required. The venting from storage tanks
resulting from these operations and maintenance activities at midstream operations are
no longer automatically assumed to be appropriate or necessary.

Pneumatic Controller Revisions: Section III.



                                                                                        620
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also expanded the applicability of natural gas-fired pneumatic
controller requirements and inspection and enhanced response requirements state-wide
to natural gas processing plants. The Commission’s proposal would require new gas
plants to install, and existing gas plants to retrofit natural gas driven controllers with
non-emitting pneumatic controllers, unless certain safety exemptions are met. The
Commission’s proposal also requires that any remaining gas-driven controllers be
subject to the find and fix program.

In Section III.C.3.a., the Commission clarified a revision made in February 2021. In
February, the Commission revised this section to add an end-date of May 1, 2021, given
the new requirements in III.C.4. However, the requirements of Section III.C.4. do not
apply as widely as Section III.C.3.a., so the Commission here clarified that Section
III.C.3.a. continues to apply unless a specific provision of Section III.C.4. is controlling
(i.e., under the principle that the more specific controls over the general, in the event of
a conflict between Section III.C.3.a. and III.C.4., Section III.C.4. would control).

In Section III.F., the Commission aligned the inspection schedules for natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers with the revised inspection schedules for components in Section
II.E.

Annual Emissions Reporting: Section V.

The Commission made several updates to Section V., some for clarification and some to
better ensure the accuracy and verifiability of the annual emissions reports. In Sections
V.B.1.e. through V.B.1.g., the Commission clarified that operators must use Division-
approved calculation methods. The Commission considers this a clarification of the
program adopted in 2019, which required operators to use the Division-approved form.
The Commission adopted this clarification to ensure that operators are aware of the
duty to recalculate and resubmit their annual emissions reports if the Division
disapproves of a calculation methodology (if, for example, the methodology was not
approved ahead of the report’s submission).

In Section V.B.1.h., the Commission expressly required that operators who submit
emissions information using a calculation methodology different from that used to
submit the annual greenhouse gas reports to the U.S. EPA under the Greenhouse Gas


                                                                                             621
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Reporting Program also submit to the Division: 1) the emissions information using the
same calculation method as used in the GHGRP program; and 2) a justification for the
change in calculation methodology. The Commission recognizes that some equipment
is reported to EPA in the aggregate, while reported individually to the Division. The
Commission intends that the operator provide sufficient information to enable the
Division and the public to understand the differences in an operator’s calculation
methods; the Commission does not hereby require that operators educate the Division
or the public on the differences between the federal and state reporting programs. The
Commission believes that flexibility in calculation methodology is an important tool to
ensure more accuracy across operations; however, it is necessary to understand
deviations from EPA’s approved methodology to ensure appropriate comparisons and to
provide transparency. The Commission has also recognized again the Division’s
authority to require recalculation of emissions data if the alternative calculation
methodology is not deemed approvable by the Division.

In Section V.B.1.j., the Commission has required that operators using emission factors
to calculate emissions must either use Division-approved emission factors or may use a
site-specific emission factor. However, the Commission recognizes that gas composition
may change over time, and therefore has determined to require periodic gas
composition analysis to support the continued use of site-specific emission factors. The
Commission expects that the Division will, as appropriate, update any default factors
based upon collected gas composition data. The Commission directs the Division to
work with operators to conduct representative sampling, where appropriate. The
Commission has set the frequency for sampling at five years, which aligns with APEN
update frequencies. The Commission does not intend that operators can wait five years
to conduct their first gas composition analysis; in adopting a schedule that aligns with
APEN updates, the Commission intends to generally align the sampling schedule with
APEN updates.

In Section V.C.2., the Commission clarified the type of information that must be
submitted. The requirements adopted in 2019 specified that operators must submit
information including the emissions, emission factors, assumptions, and calculation
methodology. And Section V.B.1.c. required submission of information about the


                                                                                        622
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

activities and equipment covered by the report. The Commission now clarifies that other
information the Division deems necessary to support the emissions reported must be
included, to avoid operator reluctance to share this information based upon the previous
regulatory language.

In Section V.C.2.d., beginning with the June 2024 report for calendar year 2023, the
Commission requires owners or operators to report emissions, along with other
supporting information, resulting from blowdowns from facility equipment and piping
where the physical volume of the piping between isolation valves is greater than or
equal to 1 cubic foot. The Commission notes its interpretation that the 50 cubic foot
exemption adopted in 2019 never applied to blowdowns of pipeline segments between
facilities that were previously reported under Section V.C.2.s. (now Section V.C.2.t.).
The Commission has also rearranged the requirement to report emissions and other
supporting information for pigging operations such that it no longer falls under Section
V.C.2.d. and now stands alone under Section V.C.2.s. The allowance to exclude
blowdowns from facility equipment and piping as well as from pigging operations where
the physical volume of the piping between isolation valves is less than or equal to 50
cubic feet continues through the June 2023 report for the 2022 calendar year. The
Commission understands that accurate tracking of gas volumes from equipment and
piping where the physical volume of the piping between isolation valves is greater than
or equal to 1 cubic foot can be difficult. Therefore, the Commission directs the Division
to accept appropriate actual and approximated reported volumes for this subcategory of
blowdowns. For the revised exemption of blowdowns where the physical volume is less
than 1 cubic foot, the Commission requires operators to maintain a list of the equipment
and blowdown activities that have volumes less than 1 cubic foot so that the Division
can maintain oversight of those blowdowns and revisit the availability of this more
limited exemption as appropriate.

In Section V.C.2.k., the Commission specified that operators must report component
counts and gas speciation data used to support fugitive emission calculations. The
Commission acknowledges that component counts can be representative, and are not
necessarily specific counts per facility. However, where operators are using
representative component counts, that must be noted on the submittal.


                                                                                          623
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission made other clarifications and updates, and included the date of both
reporting year and year of report submittal where necessary to ensure that operators
have adequate time to capture any new information.

Annual Information Reporting: Section V.D.

In 2020, the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission adopted COGCC Rule
904(a), which was designed to facilitate information sharing between the COGCC and
CDPHE. COGCC Rule 904(a) mandates an annual report by the COGCC Director to
the COGCC, and expresses an intent that the COGCC Director collaborate with the
Division to include certain specified information. Stakeholders requested that this
Commission adopt a counterpart to that rule, to ensure that the information necessary to
that COGCC Rule 904 report is timely provided. The Commission agrees and has
adopted Section V.D. to facilitate that information sharing by the Division. The
Commission has specified that several annual reports already required to be presented
to this Commission will be provided thereafter to the COGCC, including the annual
ozone report and the annual GHG Roadmap progress report (and the more formal
biennial GHG Roadmap inventory update and progress report).

The Commission encourages meaningful and frequent collaboration between the
Division and the COGCC, to ensure that the state can meet its air quality goals,
including reducing greenhouse gas emissions, striving towards ozone attainment, and
reducing “cumulative impacts” of oil and gas development. The Commission anticipates
the agencies sharing information regarding evolving or new innovative technologies or
measures that may provide innovative methods to reduce emissions; identifying areas
for further study; and annual reporting to both this Commission and the COGCC will
ensure that collaboration is ongoing and effective.

Miscellaneous

In Section II.B.2. and II.B.3., the Commission updated the section regarding
requirements for compressors (reciprocating and centrifugal) to reflect that compliance
with either NSPS OOOO or NSPS OOOOa is sufficient. The revisions made to
Regulation Number 7 also renumber tables and provisions to accommodate the new
requirements, and correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors. The


                                                                                      624
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission directs the Division to consider extending the schedule for the company-
wide non-emitting controller program, and to consider additional requirements to retrofit
pneumatic controllers at sites not currently subject to retrofit pursuant to Section
III.C.4.c.(iv), coincident with the oil and gas section rulemaking planned for the first half
of 2023.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the
Act:

As some of these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the
federal act, in accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)    Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
       on those requirements;

       There are existing federal regulations that seek to identify and reduce methane
       emissions from the oil and gas industry, such as the Greenhouse Gas Reporting
       Program (Part 98) and NSPS KKK, OOOO, and OOOOa. The EPA will soon
       release additional proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions from oil and
       gas equipment, but EPA’s proposal will not address the particular situations
       addressed by the Commission’s revisions here. CAA Sections 172(c) and 182(b)
       require that Colorado submit a SIP that includes provisions requiring the
       implementation of RACT at sources covered by a CTG. The EPA issued the final
       Oil and Gas CTG in October 2016, leading to the revisions to the Ozone SIP
       adopted by the Commission in 2017. The revisions adopted by the Commission
       in this rulemaking strengthen the previously adopted requirements and are
       comparable to the Oil and Gas CTG’s recommendations.

       Under Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section I.G., natural gas processing plants
       in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area must comply with the LDAR program in NSPS
       OOOO or NSPS OOOOa. Natural gas processing plants outside the 8-hour


                                                                                          625
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        Ozone Control Area may also be subject to NSPS OOOO or NSPS OOOOa,
        depending on the date of construction. In these revisions, the Commission
        subjected gas plants statewide to requirements that had previously only applied
        within the 8-hour Ozone Control Area. EPA also has regulations and guidance for
        compressors (e.g., rod packing replacement) and pneumatic controllers.
        Colorado’s requirements - both existing and as proposed herein - meet or exceed
        these federal requirements. For example, many federal requirements are
        applicable in ozone nonattainment areas, while Colorado’s provisions apply
        statewide. Through Part D, as revised, the Commission builds upon established
        federal LDAR requirements and closes additional monitoring gaps by eliminating
        limits on NSPS OOOOa applicability by location for certain natural gas sources
        and to establish a more robust LDAR program throughout the state. EPA also
        asks states to consider environmental justice as part of their actions, though
        there are no specific federal regulatory requirements at this time. These revisions
        expand on environmental justice considerations by incorporating the definition of
        “disproportionately impacted communities” (DI Community), and seeking to
        prioritize reductions in DI communities.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        The federal requirements addressing methane reductions from the oil and gas
        sector (though not applicable in this situation) as described are both
        performance-based and technology-based. Current federal requirements for
        methane reductions speak to achieving a control efficiency, with minimal
        flexibility. Some requirements also mandate the use of technology to detect
        methane emissions. However, EPA does provide some flexibility in the
        technology that can be used.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would




                                                                                         626
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
       process that established the federal requirements;

       There are federal requirements that seek to reduce greenhouse gas from oil and
       gas operations, though none that are addressed to the specific goals of these
       revisions. The Commission’s revisions address Colorado-specific requirements
       and needs, like those of HB 19-1261 and HB 21-1266, which were not
       considered in any federal process. The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone
       NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP revisions that will ensure timely
       attainment of the NAAQS. Neither the ozone NAAQS nor EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG
       addressed concerns unique to Colorado.

(IV)   Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
       community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
       potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
       or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
       requirements later;

       The proposed midstream and upstream requirements ensure that the regulated
       community can achieve required GHG emissions reductions in cost-effective
       ways and reduce the need for costlier retrofits later. The SIP revisions build upon
       the existing regulatory programs being implemented by Colorado’s oil and gas
       industry, which is more efficient and cost-effective than a wholesale adoption of
       EPA’s recommendations in its Oil and Gas CTG as RACT.

(V)    Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
       implementation of federal requirements;

       This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
       no timing issue exists with respect to implementation of federal requirements.
       EPA is under a mandated deadline to act on Colorado’s SIP revisions as related
       to EPA’s Oil and Gas CTG and has requested that Colorado expeditiously adopt
       the SIP revisions included in this rulemaking in order to complete that approval
       action.




                                                                                        627
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The regulatory provisions allow a reasonable amount of time for affected entities
        to comply with the new revisions. As such, affected businesses or industrial
        sectors are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and
        future growth.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The Commission’s revisions establish and maintain reasonable equity because
        they subject similar sources statewide with similar emitting activities to similar
        requirements. Climate change is not a local problem, and these rules
        demonstrate that the sources everywhere must contribute to the solution.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
        enacted;

        The Commission believes that the cost of inaction would be greater to industry
        and the public than the costs associated with the revisions to Regulation Number
        7, Part D. Not only with respect to the social cost of climate change, but also
        more direct costs. These revisions are designed with the maximum flexibility for
        the regulated community. Under HB 21-1266, if the state is not on track to
        achieve the emission reduction goals, the Commission must adopt further
        regulations to achieve those goals. Future efforts are likely to be not as cost-
        effective as the flexible programs in these revisions.

        Further, if EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
        Implementation Plan, thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources
        and subjecting others to increased costs.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;



                                                                                             628
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are
        necessary to effectively quantify and measure Colorado’s progress toward
        statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public health, safety, and welfare
        goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. Many of the reporting requirements
        associated with these programs are in existing Commission regulations, in
        Regulation Number 7, Part D. However, these revisions do require some
        additional reporting. Under these requirements, owners and operators of these
        sources will be required to compile and report directly to the Division information
        collected by or available to them for business or other regulatory purposes. While
        this may overlap with some other federal reporting requirements, it is expected
        there will be reporting beyond what is required federally.

(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the requirements of
        these revisions. The Commission has also embedded maximum flexibility to take
        advantage of future technological developments.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        These revisions will cost-effectively reduce statewide GHG emissions to meet the
        legislative directive of the State Air Act, as revised by SB 19-181, HB 19-1261,
        and HB 21-1266. As noted, the General Assembly has acknowledged that
        climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and directed that GHG emissions
        should be reduced across the many sectors of our economy. Colorado has
        established specific GHG reduction goals within its statutes. Programs
        established in this rulemaking action - in both Regulation Numbers 7 and 22 -
        provide mechanisms for GHG reductions to occur cost-effectively across a
        specific, high-emitting sector of the state’s economy.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.


                                                                                        629
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       The new regulatory requirements and amendments are needed to achieve the
       statutorily mandated emission reductions. As noted, the State Air Act requires the
       Commission to implement GHG emission reduction strategies in order to secure
       reductions of pollution consistent with the statewide GHG emission reduction
       goals. Currently, emissions projections over the next decade demonstrate that a
       no-action alternative would fall short of achieving Colorado’s reduction goals.

       Additionally, no alternative combination of sector-specific regulations has been
       identified that is sufficient to meet the state’s GHG emissions reductions goals. In
       addition, the CAA requires that Colorado’s Ozone SIP must include RACT
       requirements for each category of VOC sources covered by a CTG. EPA
       requested that Colorado strengthen associated monitoring requirements for
       combustion devices controlling certain equipment to further align with EPA’s Oil
       and Gas CTG. Based on conversations with EPA, the revisions further align
       Colorado’s Ozone SIP RACT requirements with the recommendations in EPA’s
       Oil and Gas CTG. Alternative rules may not align with the recommendations in
       the Oil and Gas CTG, thereby failing to qualify as necessary SIP RACT resulting
       in an unapprovable SIP. Because EPA has requested these changes be made
       expeditiously, a no-action alternative would likely result in an unapprovable SIP.
       The Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was reasonable.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)    These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
       sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
       information submitted by interested parties.

(II)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
       demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.




                                                                                         630
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

Y.      December 17, 2021 (Removed from Regulation Number 22 and placed in
Regulation Number 7 April 20, 2023)
Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part B, Sections III. and IV.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted revisions to
several Colorado Revised Statutes in Senate Bill 19-181 (SB 19-181) (Concerning
additional public welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations)
that include directives for both the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (OGCC) and
this Commission. In the same session, the General Assembly adopted House Bill 19-
1261 (HB 19-1261), setting statewide greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals. The
General Assembly declared in HB 19-1261 that “climate change adversely affects
Colorado’s economy, air quality and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and
quality of life[,]” acknowledged that “Colorado is already experiencing harmful climate
impacts[,]” and that “many of these impacts disproportionately affect” certain
disadvantaged communities.

The goals set in HB 19-1261 seek a 26% reduction of statewide GHG emissions by
2025; 50% reduction by 2030; and 90% reduction by 2050 as compared to 2005 levels.
The GHG Pollution Reduction Roadmap (“GHG Roadmap”) developed by the Colorado


                                                                                           631
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Energy Office and CDPHE identifies the largest contributors to state GHG emissions
and quantifies the baselines from which these reduction percentages are to be
estimated.

In October 2020, the Commission established a target for the O&G Sector of a 36%
reduction from the 2005 baseline by 2025 and a 60% reduction from the 2005 baseline
by 2030 (an estimated 13 million metric tons (MMT) CO2e by 2025 and 8 MMT CO2e
by 2030). Commission targets for the sector including industrial combustion emissions
(Industrial Sector) include a 20% reduction from 2015 numbers by 2030. House Bill 21-
1266 (HB 21-1266), signed into law on July 2, 2021, memorializes these percentage
reductions in statute, and provides additional requirements for the rulemakings to
achieve these goals.

The oil and gas industry is a large source of GHG emissions, and the largest
anthropogenic source of methane in Colorado. For the oil and gas industry, not all of its
emissions are found in the “O&G Sector”, also referred to as the “Oil & Gas Fugitive
Emissions” category of the GHG Roadmap. Most methane emissions from upstream
and midstream activities, along with estimates of methane “leakage” from pipelines in
the transmission & storage and distribution segments, are in the O&G Sector. In
contrast, the emissions from fuel combustion at oil and gas sources in the upstream and
midstream segments are largely found in the “RCI Sector” of the GHG Roadmap
(specifically in the “industrial” category, which is the subject of specific requirements in
HB 21-1266).

In this rulemaking action, the Commission has adopted requirements for upstream and
midstream segment operations, to reduce GHG emissions from those operations,
sufficient - when taken in combination with other regulatory and voluntary actions across
the state - to achieve the GHG reduction requirements of HB 21-1266. In this action, the
Commission did not adopt regulations applicable to the transmission and storage
segment or the distribution segment. With regard to the transmission and storage
segment, the Commission adopted a performance-based program for this segment in
2019 designed to materially reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transmission and
storage operations; reporting of progress has not yet begun under that program and the



                                                                                          632
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission believes it reasonable to evaluate the progress of that program before
modifying it. The Commission did not adopt regulations applicable to the distribution
segment because legislation passed in the 2021 session invests the Colorado Public
Utility Commission (PUC) with authority over this segment of the oil and gas industry.
Senate Bill 21-264 (SB 21-264) requires that gas distribution utilities will submit a
comprehensive clean heat plan that demonstrates projected reductions in methane and
carbon dioxide emissions that meet prescribed reduction targets. Each clean heat plan
must outline the utility’s proposal to reduce carbon dioxide and methane emission levels
by 4% in 2025 and 22% in 2030. Gas distribution utilities, depending on their size, must
submit clean heat plans to the PUC by August 1, 2023 and January 1, 2024. Thus, the
Commission believes that the transmission & storage performance program and the
clean heat plans are likely to achieve reductions of emissions necessary from these
segments to achieve the goals of § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XII).

In the 2021 legislative session, in HB 21-1266, the General Assembly also determined
that “state action to correct environmental injustice is imperative, and state policy can
and should improve public health and the environment and improve the overall well-
being of all communities… [and] efforts to right past wrongs and move toward
environmental justice must focus on disproportionately impacted communities and the
voices of their residents.” HB 21-1266 also requires the Commission to ensure
additional protections for, and reductions of co-pollutants in, disproportionately impacted
communities. CDPHE developed a map of the disproportionately impacted communities
that meet the definition of HB 21-1266. While this map is expected to change over time,
the disproportionately impacted communities that have been identified at the time of this
program’s adoption are as set forth in the following map:




                                                                                        633
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission




Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of Article 7. The Act provides the Commission broad authority to regulate
air pollutants, including GHG and its constituent gasses (particularly carbon dioxide,
methane, and nitrous oxide).

§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to


                                                                                         634
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission
to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information. § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to adopt emission control
regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from
oil and gas operations.

Pursuant to HB 21-1266, the Commission must, by January 1, 2022, adopt regulations
to ensure that the state meets its greenhouse gas reduction targets for the oil and gas
sector in the GHG Roadmap (36% by 2025 and 60% by 2030). The Commission must
also ensure that industrial sector emissions (including those from oil and gas fuel
combustion equipment) are reduced by 20% from the 2015 baseline by 2030. These
revisions ensure that the state meets its statutory goals. These revisions to Regulation
Number 22 will, taking into account other relevant laws and rules (including the
revisions to Regulation Number 7 adopted as part of this rulemaking action), as well as
voluntary actions taken by local communities and the private sector, achieve the state’s
GHG reduction goals through 2030 for the oil and gas industry. The revisions include
protections for disproportionately impacted communities that ensure reductions of
pollutants other than GHGs, additional requirements for monitoring and leak detection
and repair, and improve the state’s current emission inventory reporting program in
Regulation Number 7, Part D.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 22, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions. The Commission recognizes that a task force on Carbon
Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) has been convened as part of the GHG
Roadmap implementation, with a report to the Governor due in January 2022. The
Roadmap recognizes CCUS may play an important role over a longer time horizon in
meeting the HB 19-1261 targets, but that uncertainties make modeling CCUS
contributions difficult at this time. The Commission encourages the Division to evaluate
ways to incorporate GHG emission reductions generated from CCUS projects into



                                                                                        635
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

existing or contemplated regulatory programs such as the fuel combustion program or
the GHG intensity program discussed.

Definitions: Sections III.A. and IV.A.

In Sections III.A. and IV.A., the Commission included several defined terms from
Regulation Number 7 and intends that the same terms have the same meaning in both
regulations unless otherwise specified (i.e., unless the regulation states that a term is
defined specifically for purposes of that regulation). The Commission intends that terms
used in Sections III. or IV., even if only defined in one of those Sections, have the same
meaning.

The Commission defined both the midstream segment and the upstream segment of the
oil and gas industry. The upstream segment is not intended to necessarily be co-
extensive with the use of the term “exploration and production operations” in Regulation
Number 7. The Commission recognizes that there is some “compression” undertaken at
well production facilities, and intends that those operations are part of the upstream
segment, not the midstream segment (even if they would otherwise fall under the
gathering and boosting segment as that term is used in the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas
Reporting Program). The Commission directs the Division to consider how centralized
oil facilities, such as those receiving hydrocarbon liquids from tankless well production
facilities, should be classified for purposes of these programs. The Commission has
also defined the oil and natural gas compression segment to reflect the above; to clarify,
if equipment is operated by the upstream operator at a well production facility, the
equipment is not part of the oil and natural gas compression segment. However, if an
emission point is located at a well production facility but operated by a midstream
operator, that emission point is part of the oil and natural gas compression segment.

The Commission has defined “disproportionately impacted community” consistent with
the definition in HB 21-1266. However, the statute does not call out which communities
are considered disproportionately impacted. CDPHE is developing a tool, called
“enviroscreen”, that will be utilized for members of the public and the regulated
community to understand which communities in Colorado are disproportionately
impacted.


                                                                                         636
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

However, this tool was not ready at the time of this rulemaking. Therefore, the
Commission has determined that the disproportionately impacted communities existing
at the time of this program - and therefore the communities in which provisions of this
program apply - are identified in the map. The Commission has included, in the
definition of this term, a reference to the climate equity data map at which more detail
can be seen of the boundaries of the disproportionately impacted communities
addressed by this rulemaking. The Commission has also referenced a list of the census
block groups by 12-digit FIPS code covered by the map incorporated into the definition,
identifying what census blocks are disproportionately impacted communities as of the
date of this rulemaking.

The Commission intends that the Division will preserve a copy of the map and the
accompanying list in place at the time of this rulemaking such that sources may use the
map and list as a guide for understanding the applicability of requirements. The
Commission added the definition of natural gas processing segment, which is intended
to mirror the applicability of sources reporting to EPA in the Greenhouse Gas Reporting
Rule, 40 CFR Part 98, as the natural gas processing segment. The Commission added
a definition of “preproduction emissions” and “production emissions”. It is the intent of
the Commission that all emissions from the well, wellhead equipment (both permanent
and temporary), the well production facility, and the piping between the wellhead and
the well production facility – everything “upstream” of the midstream segment – are
accounted for in one of these two definitions.

Midstream Steering Committee for Fuel Combustion Equipment: Part B, Section III.

The Commission recognizes that emissions from midstream fuel combustion equipment
are a significant portion of the midstream segment’s greenhouse gas emissions.
Emissions from fuel combustion equipment covered by this program include not only the
carbon dioxide emissions, but also the methane and other greenhouse gases from that
same equipment. For example, “methane slip” from engines, meaning the methane that
is not combusted and that escapes unburnt into the atmosphere, is included in this
program. The Commission also recognizes that reducing emissions from fuel
combustion equipment, particularly as it involves electrification of large combustion



                                                                                        637
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

equipment, will need to be carefully coordinated to ensure the continued reliability of
Colorado’s power grid. As a result, the Commission established the Midstream Steering
Committee to develop guidance for operators on how to develop each operator’s
company-specific emission reduction plan, addressing the mechanisms and timetable
for reducing greenhouse gas from fuel combustion equipment. The Commission
adopted minimum requirements for participation on the steering committee. To the
extent that more than one representative of a disproportionately impacted community
participates on the steering committee, the Commission intends that more than one
disproportionately impacted community would be represented. Recognizing that the
Commission does not have the authority to require participation by the Colorado Energy
Office or Public Utilities Commission staff but that their participation will be valuable, the
Commission intends that the Division include them on the steering committee if they are
willing.

The rules adopted by the Commission mandate that midstream segment owners and
operators submit certain specified information to the steering committee by July 31,
2022. This information must include an identification of all fuel combustion equipment
owned or operated by each midstream segment operator. There is no de minimis
equipment that should not be identified, though not all equipment may end up in the
operator’s ERP or the segment ERP.

This information should also allow the steering committee to easily understand what
equipment - and how much emissions - are located within disproportionately impacted
communities. Owners and operators must all include an estimate of the total annual
power demand required for use of all midstream combustion equipment owned or
operated by each midstream segment operator. When reporting this estimate, the
owners and operators should identify whether such equipment is required to run
continuously or whether operation of certain equipment is intermittent or interruptible.
Owners and operators are also required to seek an estimate of existing transmission
and/or distribution capacity to serve the estimated electric load (i.e. total power demand)
at the specific locations of the midstream segment fuel combustion equipment, and
provide that information to the steering committee.



                                                                                          638
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Transmission and/or distribution capacity should be obtained from the appropriate
electric utility, transmission, or distribution service provider and reported to the steering
committee when made available by the utility or utilities. Owners and operators should
evaluate whether their midstream segment fuel combustion equipment operations
require firm or non-firm transmission service. Should an owner or operator consider
potential electrification, the Commission intends the owner or operator will continue to
engage with the appropriate electric utility, transmission, or distribution service provider.

If the midstream steering committee determines that it needs additional information, it
may request it from the midstream segment operators. The rules provide that such
additional information should be requested by April 30, 2022; however, this does not
limit the Division’s authority to use existing statutes and regulatory authority to require
the submittal of additional information to the Division. The Division must preserve trade
secrets and other confidential business information, if provided to the Division, as
required by the Colorado Open Records Act. The Commission intends that the
midstream steering committee work with electric utilities as well as regulatory agencies
that have the information in publically available files. To the extent the midstream
steering committee seeks voluminous information available from the PUC, the
Commission encourages the midstream steering committee to first seek to obtain such
information from the PUC directly. The Commission intends the electric utilities work
collaboratively with the midstream steering committee to assist the committee in
locating and, if necessary, clarifying such information. The Commission does not intend
that the Division will provide, or that the steering committee will seek confidential or
trade secret information from utilities, such as pricing information. The Commission
intends that the electric utilities will work collaboratively with the midstream steering
committee to assist the steering committee in locating and, if necessary, clarifying
requested information.

The Division will provide the steering committee with the 2015 baseline for industrial
greenhouse gas emissions, from which the midstream segment needs to achieve a
twenty-percent (20%) reduction by 2030. While the Commission intends that reductions
should be achieved as quickly as possible, the Commission does not demand a linear
reduction in emissions between 2025 and 2030. Further, the emissions reductions


                                                                                            639
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

considered in this 20% reduction requirement include only emissions from the fuel
combustion equipment in the Industrial Sector of the GHG Roadmap. Emissions from
the power sector (generally referred to as “Scope 2 emissions”) that could result from
electrification of midstream fuel combustion equipment, are considered under another
portion of the GHG Roadmap.

The midstream steering committee will prepare a guidance document (or series of
documents) to help midstream segment owners and operators in preparing their own
company-specific emission reduction plans. The guidance document is not intended to
be an independent analysis of electric grid availability or a forecast of available
resources; it is designed to assist operators in identifying the issues they must consider
when preparing their company ERPs. The Commission has asked that utilities
participate on the midstream steering committee to help inform the issues that must be
addressed in considering electrification as an emission reduction strategy, but this
committee is not designed to perform independent analysis such as that performed by
individual operators, utilities, or the PUC. The Commission intends that the guidance
document will specify methods for calculating emissions from fuel combustion
equipment, and that the Division must approve of the calculation methods before they
can be included in the guidance.

Specifically, the Commission directs the Division to evaluate calculation methods used
in the annual emission reports to the Division under Regulation Number 7, Part D,
Section V., compare those with methods used to report to the U.S. EPA under the
greenhouse gas reporting program and other available calculation methods, and
determine the appropriate methods to be used by operators. The Commission expects
consistency in the calculation and reporting methods used by operators, as much as
practicable. The Commission directs the Division to ensure that midstream steering
committee work product, like the guidance document, is translated into Spanish and
made available with the draft guidance. The Commission also intends that the Division
hold public meetings to receive feedback on the midstream steering committee work
production (both the guidance and the midstream segment ERP), and that notice of
these meetings be made at least thirty (30) days prior and that the notice and agenda
be translated into Spanish.


                                                                                        640
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Operators must submit company emission reduction plans to the steering committee in
accordance with the requirements of Section III.D.4. and containing the information
specified in the guidance and regulation. The Commission intends that the Division will
prepare emission reduction requirements for any midstream owner or operator that
does not timely submit its company ERP; however, if a company ERP is submitted late,
the Division may nonetheless approve of inclusion of that company ERP into the
segment ERP.

The Commission structured the rule such that the midstream steering committee
submits a proposed regulatory package - with supporting analysis - to the Division
instead of directly to the Commission. The Commission intends that the Division will
review the steering committee’s proposal, and use its independent judgment as to
whether the proposal will ensure compliance with the requirements of § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. - i.e. achieves a 20% reduction in CO2e from the 2015 baseline -
for the midstream segment. The midstream segment emission reduction plan submitted
by the Division to the Commission will therefore be based on the segment-wide
emission reduction plan developed by the midstream steering committee, but will
consider the public comments received and the Division’s evaluation of whether the
steering committee’s emission reduction plan will achieve the state’s goals for CO2
reductions from midstream segment fuel combustion equipment.

Upstream Greenhouse Gas Intensity: Part B, Section IV.

In these revisions, the Commission has set targets for greenhouse gas intensity that
step-down over time to achieve the GHG reductions required of upstream segment
operations to meet the requirements of HB 21-1266. There is currently no regulatory
greenhouse gas intensity program in the United States of which the Commission is
aware. However, there are a number of voluntary programs, including ONE Future, the
Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative, etc. Multiple Colorado operators are already
participating in voluntary methane intensity programs.

While this program is new from a regulatory standpoint, the Commission feels it is an
important program to guarantee - as much as possible - the emissions reductions
needed from oil and gas upstream operations to meet the requirements of HB 21-1266.


                                                                                       641
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has adopted many regulations specific to oil and gas operations since
2005, including several since 2019 that are still in the process of being implemented.
The regulations already adopted, in conjunction with other laws and regulations and the
new direct regulations being adopted in this same rulemaking process in Regulation
Number 7, Part D, will all provide the necessary emissions reductions. If existing and
new measures are still not enough to ensure the emission reduction targets are met,
this intensity program will require additional enforceable emission reduction actions from
operators above their intensity targets. The Commission believes that the direct
regulations adopted as part of this rulemaking along with those adopted and still being
fully implemented will achieve or very nearly achieve the emission reductions required,
and this intensity program will create an enforceable mechanism to ensure that any
remaining required reductions are realized.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the annual emissions inventories or
other data collected by the Division reveals that the intensity program is not achieving
the reductions necessary to achieve either the state's 2025 or 2030 greenhouse gas
goals for these sectors, the Commission directs the Division to - consistently with the
requirements of § 25-7-105(1)(e)(VII), C.R.S. - propose requirements that include
additional direct regulation. The Commission intends that the same operator that
accounts, in the intensity program, for the production under Section IV.D. and the
emissions in the intensity calculation, is the operator that accounts for the emissions
under Regulation Number 7 reporting requirements. For the purposes of this intensity
program, this operator is referred to as the “Intensity operator,” as defined in Regulation
Number 22, Section IV.A.12.

Calculating Intensity

The Commission, for consistency across Colorado operations, determined that in
converting natural gas production to barrels of oil equivalent, owners and operators
should use the conversion factor of 5800 standard cubic feet of natural gas per barrel of
oil equivalent. To clarify the calculation for intensity, which requires use of oil and natural
gas production in thousand barrels of oil equivalent (kBOE), as well as the common




                                                                                           642
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

units used for reporting natural gas production of million standard cubic feet (MMscf),
operators should divide natural gas production reported in MMscf by 5.8 MMscf/kBOE.

The equation for calculating total production in kBOE is:

       TP (kBOE) = [NGP (MMscf)/5.8 (MMscf/kBOE)] + [OP (bbl)/1000 (bbl/kBOE)]

Where:

       TP (kBOE) = total annual production of natural gas and oil in the units of kBOE

       NGP(MMscf) = annual natural gas production in the units of million standard
       cubic feet

       OP (bbl) = annual oil production in the units of barrels of oil

The Commission set greenhouse gas intensity targets to cover all preproduction
emissions and production emissions from upstream oil and gas operations. The
intensity program covers emissions in both the “Industrial” sector and the “Oil and Gas”
sector in the GHG Roadmap. The Commission recognizes that these sectors have
different statutory targets for GHG reductions; the “Industrial” sector must meet a 20%
reduction from the 2015 baseline by 2030, and the “Oil and Gas” sector must meet a
36% reduction from the 2005 baseline by 2025 and a 60% reduction from the 2005
baseline by 2030. The Commission adopted the projected throughput from the GHG
Roadmap inventory work for purposes of setting these targets. However, the
Commission understands that some stakeholders may sponsor a study of production
forecasts to further inform and refine the established intensity targets. The Commission
is willing to consider the results of such a study, and directs that the Division consider
the results of any such study in the 2023 verification rulemaking (as discussed) and
propose updating targets as appropriate. The Commission determined that it was
appropriate to set more stringent intensity targets for the larger producers in the state
(i.e., “majority producers”), than for the smaller producers (i.e., “minority producers”).
The threshold set by the Commission for determining majority producers was based on
accounting for the operators representing at least 80% of the state’s oil and natural gas
production. The Commission recognizes that the smaller producers - that largely
operate wells with declining production - have less opportunity to reduce intensity than



                                                                                             643
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

the larger operators. However, the Commission does not intend that older facilities with
declining production should just be permitted to operate with ever-increasing intensities,
and directs the Division to study a potential facility-specific maximum allowable intensity
and propose it as part of the 2023 verification rulemaking, if appropriate.

Acquisitions

The Commission adopted provisions providing how to adjust operator-specific reduction
requirements upon the occurrence of asset transfer or other business realities. The
Commission does not intend that operators may meet their greenhouse gas intensity
targets simply by selling low-performing facilities, and the provisions for sales and
acquisitions are designed to ensure both statewide emission reductions and
greenhouse gas intensity targets are achieved. Generally, if an owner or operator sells
its interest in a well or facility at some point during a calendar year, the owner or
operator will report the production and emissions for the time period of its ownership,
and the purchasing entity will report the production and emissions for the time period of
its ownership, triggered by the closing date of the transaction. However, because
majority and minority operators have different targets, the Commission clarifies how
those situations should be addressed.

First, if a majority operator acquires assets from a minority operator, the majority
operator would have some time before the acquired assets would be subject to the
majority operator intensity targets. During the year of the acquisition, the majority
operator need only demonstrate that the emissions and production from the acquired
assets meet the minority operator targets – for the time period subsequent to the date of
closing of the transaction.

However, in the calendar year after the acquisition, the majority operator would include
the emissions and production from the acquired assets in its company-wide intensity
calculation and need to meet the majority operator targets. Second, if a minority
operator acquires assets from a majority operator, for the year of and the year following
the acquisition, those assets need to meet the minority operator target for the acquired
assets and would be included in the company-wide intensity calculation subject to the
minority operator target. Under these situations, the Commission recognizes that there


                                                                                        644
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

may be limited reasons why some additional time could be necessary. The Commission
encourages operators to timely reach out to the Division if more time is required, and for
the Division to work with operators that demonstrate equivalent or better emission
reductions would be achieved. However, the timing of the acquisition itself, or the failure
to conduct environmental due diligence prior to the acquisition, are not such limited
reasons that the Commission intends the Division use its discretion to accept.

If, at any point, a minority operator has production over 10,000 kBOE, or if a minority
operator increases its production by 2,500 kBOE over the prior calendar year production
- then in the calendar year after the acquisition, the minority operator would become a
majority operator and be subject to those targets (and other rules applicable to majority
operators). Otherwise, if a minority operator acquires assets (or merges with) a minority
operator, the minority targets must be met in the year of the acquisition for all assets,
including the acquired assets. If a majority operator sells assets, the majority operator
targets must still be met, even if that operator’s production falls below 10,000 kBOE. If a
new to market operator acquires the assets of a minority operator, the new to market
operator becomes a minority operator and the minority operator targets apply; similarly,
if a new to market operator acquires the assets of a majority operator, the majority
operator targets apply.

New Facility Intensity

The Commission also determined that it was necessary to set a “new facility intensity”
target, to recognize that operators of new well production facilities must continue to
improve their performance, and reduce GHG emissions associated with new production.
The Commission relied upon studies of intensity at oil and gas operations to determine
that a new facility GHG intensity should be approximately 78.5% of the majority operator
greenhouse gas intensity target. These new facility targets are in addition to the majority
operator/minority operator targets in Section IV.B. So, a majority operator who
constructs a new well production facility in 2027 must meet: (1) the greenhouse gas
intensity target in Section IV.B.3.a. for all its upstream segment operations including the
newly constructed well production facility (and subsequent majority operator targets in
Section IV.B.); (2) the new facility intensity target in Section IV.C.3. for calendar year



                                                                                             645
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

2027 for the newly constructed well production facility; and (3) the new facility intensity
target in Section IV.C.4. for calendar year 2028 for the newly constructed well
production facility.

Greenhouse Gas Intensity Plans

In Section IV.E, the Commission requires that owners or operators submit greenhouse
gas intensity plans. The primary purpose of these plans is for owners or operators to
demonstrate to the Division how they intend to meet the 2025, 2027, and 2030
greenhouse gas intensity targets in Sections IV.B.2. through IV.B.4. The Commission
determined to require submittal of site-specific plans that identify at which sites emission
reductions will be achieved to ensure that the greenhouse gas intensity targets are met,
all the way through the 2030 targets. The Commission intends that operators be
permitted to update their plans after submittal, but the greenhouse gas intensity plan in
effect must always demonstrate that the targets will be achieved.

The Commission is also requiring annual verifications identifying what actions were
taken, consistent with the plans. In addition to annual verifications to the intensity plans,
the Commission has required submittal of asset transfer plan updates specific to any
assets a company purchases. These assets transfer plans are to ensure that operators
do not purchase high-intensity sites from another operator without making any
improvements to those sites that would have been made if the sites had not been
transferred. The Commission adopted this requirement to protect the integrity of the
program and ensure emission reductions are realized as expected.

Verification

In Section IV.F., the Commission directs the Division to develop a mechanism to track
progress towards meeting the state’s GHG reduction goals and to evaluate compliance
with the greenhouse gas intensity targets and new facility intensity targets in Sections
IV.B. and IV.C. The Commission determined that it was advisable to give the Division
time in 2021 and 2022 (1) to evaluate the annual emission reports submitted in 2021
and 2022, (2) to evaluate different calculation and emission quantification
methodologies for different emitting activities and equipment, and (3) to consider the
impact and results of the aerial and ground-based survey work being conducted by the


                                                                                         646
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Division (and contractors) in 2021 (because this data will not be fully available until the
spring of 2022) as well as other relevant surveys. In 2023, the Commission expects that
the Division will propose a verification plan after considering the current status of oil and
gas GHG emissions, based on Regulation Number 7 reporting and top-down monitoring
results, production increases or decreases based on data reported to the OGCC, the
aerial and ground-based survey work, and other important considerations, such as the
availability, reliability, and cost-effectiveness of direct measurement techniques as
appropriate. This 2023 rulemaking may also address other aspects of the intensity
program, including evaluating progress towards the reduction targets for oil and gas in §
25-7-105(1)(e)(XII).

Disproportionately Impacted Communities

The Commission recognizes the critical need for emission reductions - and in particular
emission reductions of GHG co-pollutants - within disproportionately impacted
communities. The Commission also included the definitions of “co-benefits” and
“harmful air pollutants.” These terms are used in Sections III. and IV. to ensure that the
midstream segment emission reduction plan and operators’ greenhouse gas intensity
plans achieve and prioritize reductions of co-pollutants in disproportionately impacted
communities. In Section III., the Commission has included a requirement that operators
prioritize and quantify reductions of co-pollutants within disproportionately impacted
communities in their ERPs. In Section IV, the Commission required that greenhouse gas
intensity plans identify the facilities in disproportionately impacted communities and
demonstrate how co-pollutant emission reductions will be prioritized therein. The
Commission is further requiring that annual verifications to intensity plans demonstrate
that emission reductions were prioritized in disproportionately impacted communities,
and must quantify the reductions of harmful air pollutants. The Commission intends that
where the same or similar technological and economic considerations apply to
reductions that can be achieved in a disproportionately impacted community or
elsewhere, as it pertains to determining at which facilities or which activities to reduce
emission, reductions within disproportionately impacted communities must be prioritized
over other GHG reduction options. The 2023 verification rulemaking may also include



                                                                                         647
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

regulatory provisions addressing how the Division will evaluate compliance with the
requirement to prioritize reductions in disproportionately impacted communities.

The Commission also directs the Division to work with the Environmental Justice Unit at
CDPHE to ensure access to GHG Intensity Plan information – and the impact of GHG
Intensity Plans on DI Communities – by the residents of those communities. The
Commission has also included, in related revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part D,
Section VI., a direction that the Division report out on these issues to the Commission
on an annual basis.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the
Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)    Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
       on those requirements;

       There are no federal regulations applicable to the situations covered by the
       provisions of Part B, Sections III and IV. However, there are existing federal
       regulations that seek to identify and reduce methane emissions from the oil and
       gas industry, such as the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (40 CFR Part 98)
       and New Source Performance Standards (30 CFR Part 60) Subparts KKK,
       OOOO, and OOOOa. Part B, Sections III and IV do not conflict with any
       applicable current federal regulations. The EPA will soon release proposals to
       address greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas equipment, but EPA’s
       proposal does not address the particular situations addressed by the
       Commission’s revisions here. EPA also asks states to consider environmental
       justice as part of their actions, though there are no specific regulatory


                                                                                        648
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        requirements at this time. In this revision, Part B, Sections III and IV expand on
        environmental justice considerations by incorporating the definition of
        “disproportionately impacted communities” (DI Community), and seeking to
        prioritize reductions in DI communities.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        The federal requirements addressing methane reductions from the oil and gas
        sector (though not applicable in this situation) as described are both
        performance-based and technology-based. Current federal requirements for
        methane reductions speak to achieving a control efficiency, with minimal
        flexibility. Some requirements also mandate the use of technology to detect
        methane emissions. However, EPA does provide some flexibility in the
        technology that can be used.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;

        There are federal requirements that seek to reduce greenhouse gas from oil and
        gas operations, though none that are addressed to the specific goals of Part B,
        Sections III and IV. The Commission’s revisions address Colorado-specific
        requirements and needs, like those of HB 19-1261 and HB 21-1266, which were
        not considered in any federal process.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;




                                                                                         649
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The proposed midstream and upstream programs will ensure that the regulated
        community can achieve required GHG emissions reductions in cost-effective
        ways by giving covered entities options to reduce emissions through direct
        regulation and development of company-specific plans to ensure compliance with
        state targets.

(VI)    Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;

        This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
        no timing issue exists.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The regulatory provisions allow a reasonable amount of time for affected entities
        to comply with the new revisions. As such, affected businesses or industrial
        sectors are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and
        future growth. The rules adopted by the Commission establish a new midstream
        steering committee to assist in analyzing the technical feasibility and economic
        reasonability of future means of reducing emissions in this segment. The
        midstream steering committee will prepare a guidance document (or series of
        documents) to help midstream segment owners and operators in preparing their
        own company-specific emission reduction plans, thus allowing for additional time
        to achieve compliance. The upstream intensity program also accommodates
        uncertainty, by allowing for an additional year (at least) to consider and develop a
        verification program.

(VIII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        With respect to any sources already operating within the upstream segment, the
        rule establishes reasonable equity because it takes into account the size of the
        operator, the percentage of ownership each operator claims, and the location of
        the facility. With respect to any new well production facilities subject to the



                                                                                          650
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       upstream statewide intensity program requirements, the rule establishes
       reasonable equity as requirements are the same for each source type based on
       age of the production well. This is also demonstrated for the midstream segment
       with the establishment of the midstream steering committee to ensure equity
       across operators based on location and utility provider.

(IX)   Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
       enacted;

       The Commission believes that the cost of inaction would be greater to industry
       and the public than the costs associated with the revisions to Part B, Sections III.
       and IV. Not only with respect to the social cost of climate change, but also more
       direct costs. These revisions are designed with the maximum flexibility for the
       regulated community. Under HB 21-1266, if the state is not on track to achieve
       the emission reduction goals, the Commission must adopt further regulations to
       achieve those goals. Future efforts are likely to be not as cost-effective as the
       flexible programs in these revisions.

(X)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
       requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
       why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
       monitoring requirements;

       Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are
       necessary to effectively quantify and measure Colorado’s progress toward
       statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public health, safety, and welfare
       goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. Many of the reporting requirements
       associated with these programs are in existing Commission regulations, in
       Regulation Number 7, Part D. However, these revisions do require some
       additional reporting. Under these requirements, owners and operators of these
       sources will be required to compile and report directly to the Division information
       collected by or available to them for business or other regulatory purposes. While
       this may overlap with some other federal reporting requirements, it is expected
       there will be reporting beyond what is required federally.


                                                                                           651
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(XI)    Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
requirement;

        Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the requirements of
        these revisions.

(XII)   Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        These revisions will cost-effectively reduce statewide GHG emissions to meet the
        legislative directive of the State Air Act, as revised by SB 19-181, HB 19-1261,
        and HB 21-1266. As noted, the General Assembly has acknowledged that
        climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and directed that GHG emissions
        should be reduced across the many sectors of our economy. Colorado has
        established specific GHG reduction goals within its statutes. Programs
        established in this rulemaking action - in both Regulation Numbers 7 and 22 -
        provide mechanisms for GHG reductions to occur cost-effectively across a
        specific, high-emitting sector of the state’s economy.

(XIII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The new regulatory requirements and amendments are needed to achieve the
        statutorily mandated emission reductions. As noted, the State Air Act requires the
        Commission to implement GHG emission reduction strategies in order to secure
        reductions of pollution consistent with the statewide GHG emission reduction
        goals. Currently emissions projections over the next decade demonstrate that a
        no-action alternative would fall short of achieving Colorado’s reduction goals.
        Additionally, no alternative combination of sector-specific regulations has been
        identified that is sufficient to meet the state’s GHG emissions reductions goals.

Findings of Fact




                                                                                          652
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

Z.      December 15, 2022 (Revisions to Part A, Sections I., II., and Appendix A;
Part B, Sections IV. and VI.; Part C, Sections I., II., III., and IV.; Part D, Sections I.,
II., and III.; and Part E, Sections I., II., III., IV., VI., VII., and VIII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

On October 7, 2022, EPA reclassified the Denver Metro/North Front Range (DM/NFR) to
severe for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard of 75 parts per
billion (ppb) (2008 NAAQS), after 2019-2021 ozone data failed to show attainment. See
Fed. Reg. 60926. Separately, EPA has also designated the DM/NFR as marginal
nonattainment for the 2015 ozone NAAQS of 70 ppb, effective August 3, 2018 (83 Fed.


                                                                                           653
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Reg. 25776 (June 4, 2018)). On November 30, 2021, EPA expanded the boundary of
the 2015 ozone nonattainment area to include all of Weld County, effective December
30, 2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 67864). On October 7, 2022, EPA reclassified the DM/NFR and
northern Weld County to moderate, after 2019-2021 ozone data failed to show
attainment. See Fed. Reg. 60897. To ensure progress towards attainment of the 2008
and 2015 ozone NAAQS, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to
include reasonably available control requirements (RACT) for major sources of volatile
organic compounds (VOC) or nitrogen oxides (NOx) in the nonattainment areas,
specifically for combustion equipment, wood coating, solvent use, bakery operations,
digital printing, poultry waste processing, oil stabilization facilities, class II injection well
facilities, and industrial waste; to include state only provisions in the SIP concerning
specific oil and gas sector engines, pneumatic controllers, and liquids loadout as SIP
strengthening measures; to clarify the applicability of requirements to newly classified
ozone nonattainment areas; to include provisions corresponding to recommendations in
EPA’s Control Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts
Coatings (Miscellaneous Metal CTG) concerning motor vehicle materials; and to include
provisions establishing VOC content limits on automotive coatings. The Commission
also adopted revisions to expand gasoline tank truck testing requirements.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such
rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-
7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article
7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the
atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and
provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants. Section 105(1)(a)(I)
directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS.
§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to
promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission


                                                                                              654
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2) of the Act authorize the Commission to
promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for
significant sources and categories of sources and emission control regulations
pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions. The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors found through the regulation.

Major Source RACT

Due to the reclassifications to severe and moderate, Colorado must submit revisions to
its SIP to address the Clean Air Act’s (CAA) ozone nonattainment area requirements, as
set forth in CAA §§ 172, 182(b), 182(d), and the final SIP Requirements Rules. Severe
and Moderate SIPs must include provisions that require the implementation of RACT for
major sources of VOC and/or NOx (i.e., sources in a severe nonattainment area that
emit or have the potential to emit 25 tpy or more and sources in a moderate
nonattainment area that emit or have the potential to emit 100 tpy or more) and for each
category of VOC sources covered by a Control Technique Guideline (CTG) for which
Colorado has sources in the nonattainment area.

Therefore, to address the severe nonattainment area requirements under CAA § 182(d),
the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT
requirements in Colorado’s ozone SIP for 25 tpy major sources of VOC and/or NOx
including expanding the combustion equipment requirements; expanding wood coating
requirements; expanding solvent use requirements; incorporating requirements in the
SIP for oil stabilization and class II injection well facilities; and developing new
categorical rules for bakery operations, digital printing, poultry waste, and industrial
waste. To address the moderate nonattainment area requirements under CAA § 182(b),
the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT
requirements in Colorado’s ozone SIP for 100 tpy major sources of VOC and/or NOx in


                                                                                           655
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

northern Weld County including clarifying the applicability of SIP provisions to any
ozone nonattainment area, in contrast to the specified 8-hour ozone control area;
expanding the combustion equipment requirements; and expanding requirements for oil
and gas operations and equipment. The Commission also adopted revised
requirements for glass melt furnaces.

Boilers

In 2019, the Commission expanded the combustion equipment requirements adopted in
2016 and 2018 for the 100 tpy major sources to the 50 tpy major sources. The
Commission now further expands the categorical RACT requirements to boilers at 25
tpy major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area and at 100 tpy major sources in
northern Weld County. The Commission also adopted an emission limit for wood fired
boilers at 25 tpy major sources. The owners or operators of these boilers will comply
with the combustion process adjustment, periodic performance testing, and
recordkeeping requirements.

Engines

In 2019, the Commission expanded the NOx emission limit requirements for
compression ignition reciprocating internal combustion engines (RICE) and combustion
process adjustment requirements for stationary RICE. The Commission now further
expands the categorical RACT requirements for engines at 25 tpy major sources in the
8-hour ozone control area and at 100 tpy major sources in northern Weld County. The
owners or operators of these engines will continue to comply with the specified NOx
emission limit or applicable NSPS NOx limit, combustion process adjustment, periodic
performance testing, and recordkeeping requirements.

Turbines

In 2019, the Commission adopted provisions requiring turbines constructed before
February 18, 2005, to comply with NSPS GG and turbines construction after February
18, 2005, to comply with NSPS KKKK. In 2020, the Commission adopted revisions to
require all turbines to comply with emission limits in NSPS KKKK. The Commission now
further expands the categorical RACT requirements to turbines at 25 tpy major sources



                                                                                        656
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

in the 8-hour ozone control area and at 100 tpy major sources in northern Weld County.
As with the previous adoption of the NSPS KKKK limits, the Commission intends the
limits to apply as EPA has written in the rule. The Commission also adopted specific
requirements for one facility based on the permitted emission limits and monitoring
requirements. All turbines will continue to comply with good air practices for minimizing
emissions, combustion process adjustment, and recordkeeping requirements.

Process heaters

In 2021, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT
requirements in Colorado’s ozone SIP for process heaters at major sources of NOx
emissions, specifically NOx emission limits for natural gas-fired and refinery gas-fired
process heaters with a heat input rate greater than or equal to 5 MMBtu/hr. The
Commission also expanded these provisions on a state-only basis to process heaters at
sources that emit, or have the potential to emit, 25 tpy NOx, in anticipation of a
reclassification to severe nonattainment. The Commission now removes the state-only
designation to include these requirements in the SIP. The Commission also expanded
the categorical RACT requirements to process heaters at 100 tpy major sources in
northern Weld County.

Glass melt furnaces

In 2018, the Commission adopted requirements for glass melt furnaces at 100 tpy major
sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. In this rulemaking, the Commission revised
those requirements to address concerns expressed by EPA about start-up and shut-
down operations that were excluded from the NOx emission limit, as adopted based on
applicable federal requirements. The revised limit now applies during all periods except
for initial startup where the owner or operator must account for startup emissions by
calculating emissions from fuel consumption.

Wood coating

In 2020, the Commission adopted requirements for wood surface coating based on
recommendations in EPA’s Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Wood
Furniture Manufacturing Operations CTG (Wood Furniture CTG) (1996) and EPA’s A



                                                                                        657
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Guide to the Wood Furniture CTG and NESHAP (1997). The Commission now expands
the wood surface coating requirements to the surface coating of other wood products 25
tpy major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area.

Solvent use

In 2019, the Commission adopted a new categorical rule regarding general solvent use
operations. The Commission now expands the solvent use requirements to operations
at 25 tpy major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area.

Bakery operations

The Commission adopted a new categorical rule for bakery ovens and bakery scrap
recycling at 25 tpy major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. The primary VOC
associated with baking is ethanol, produced when yeast reacts with sugars in bread
dough. VOC emissions also result from the drying of bakery scrap product. The new
requirements reduce VOC emissions through the use of work practices and by routing
bakery oven emissions to a control device. One potentially subject facility is newly
installing such control device and the adopted requirements provide an appropriate
implementation time period for such installation. The applicable work practices and
recordkeeping requirements will continue to apply.

Digital printing

The Commission adopted a new categorical rule for digital printing operations at 25 tpy
major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. The adopted work practice and
recordkeeping requirements are similar to those adopted in other ozone nonattainment
areas and will reduce fugitive VOC emissions from printing.

Poultry waste processing

The Commission adopted a new categorical rule for poultry waste dryers at 25 tpy major
sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. The adopted work practices will reduce VOC
emissions from the drying of poultry waste (i.e., manure and spent hens).

Solid waste facilities




                                                                                       658
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted a new categorical rule for solid waste disposal at 25 tpy major
sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. The adopted work practices and
recordkeeping requirements will reduce VOC emissions from facilities that dispose of oil
and gas wastes. The Commission does not intend at this time for these provisions to
apply to municipal solid waste landfills, produced water disposal facilities, or oil and gas
operations that generate oil and gas waste.

Oil and gas sources

The Commission expanded the applicability of specific existing oil and gas SIP
provisions in Part D, Section I. to oil stabilization facilities and class II injection well
facilities at 25 tpy major sources in the 8-hour ozone control area. The expanded
requirements are currently applicable on a state-only or permit basis but may require
additional recordkeeping. The Commission notes that the definition of centralized oil
stabilization facility currently only applies to one facility and is not intended to apply to
facilities that receive combined produced water and condensate/crude oil that flows
from a wellhead to a production or centralized tank battery.

Automotive

Automotive materials

In 2021, the Commission revised the metal surface coating requirements in Regulation
Number 7 to update the provisions based on EPA’s 1978 CTG and correspond to the
recommendations in EPA’s 2008 Metal Coating CTG. The Commission did not, at that
time, propose to incorporate the VOC content limits for certain motor vehicle materials
used at facilities that are not automobile or light-duty truck assembly coating facilities
due to the overlap with EPA’s national rule, National Volatile Organic Compound
Emission Standards for Automobile Refinish Coatings (40 CFR Part 59 Subpart B).

EPA has since raised concerns about the differing definitions concerning motor vehicle
materials, and thus potential applicability, between EPA’s Metal Coating CTG and EPA’s
National Automobile Rule. Therefore, the Commission now incorporates the motor
vehicle materials VOC content limits and associated work practices into Regulation
Number 7.



                                                                                               659
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Automotive coatings

The Commission adopted VOC content limits, and associated work practices and
recordkeeping, as contingency measures for the Moderate SIP. The California Air
Resources Board (CARB) developed a Suggested Control Measure for Automotive
Coatings (SCM) that achieves additional reductions of VOCs from automotive coatings
beyond EPA’s national automobile refinish rule. The adopted requirements will apply to
anyone who sells, supplies, offers for sale, or manufacturers specified automotive
coatings and any person who applies or solicits the application of specified automotive
coatings should Colorado fail to attain the 2015 ozone NAAQS by the applicable
moderate attainment date.

NAA applicability

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to clarify the applicability of
Regulation Number 7 to “an ozone nonattainment” area. Regulation Number 7, Part A,
Sections I.B.2.d. and II.C.1.d.(iii) require existing sources in any ozone nonattainment
area to comply with applicable requirements in Regulation Number 7, whereas the other
applicability provisions in Regulation Number 7 apply to sources in the 8-hour ozone
control area. The 8-hour ozone control area, as defined, does not include the northern
portion of Weld County recently included by EPA in the 2015 ozone NAAQS
nonattainment area. These provisions in Part A, Sections I. and II. were adopted in 2008
on a state-only basis during the expansion of Regulation Number 7 requirements to
sources outside of the historic 1-hour ozone nonattainment area (i.e., the remaining
portion of the 8-hour ozone control area under the 75 ppb standard). However, the
implementation timeframes in Sections I.B.2.b. and II.C.1.d.(iii) conflict, particularly in
relation to the description from the adoption of the provisions that “existing sources that
have not been modified are allowed three years from the date of ozone non-attainment
designation to implement general RACT requirements.”

Therefore, the Commission aligned and clarified the timelines for implementation of
applicable requirements in Regulation Number 7 to existing sources in the northern
portion of Weld County. Specifically, the Commission adopted revisions to clarify that,
broadly, existing sources in northern Weld County must comply with applicable


                                                                                          660
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements within three years from the date of nonattainment designation (i.e.,
December 31, 2024), and, more specifically, that existing oil and gas sources must
comply beginning February 14, 2023, (i.e., the effective date of adoption) to recognize
that many oil and gas operations were already subject to state-only requirements that
are the same and/or similar to the SIP requirements. The Commission recognizes that
Weld County has challenged EPA’s expansion of the 2015 ozone nonattainment area
boundary and directs the Division to evaluate the use of the term “northern Weld
County” as related to the ozone nonattainment area following the conclusion of the
litigation, as necessary. The Commission does not use the term “northern Weld County”
to indicate any particular culpability of Weld County as related to the ozone
nonattainment classification but selected that term for consistency, clarity for potentially
impacted sources, and necessary alignment of implementation timeframes, as
discussed above. The Commission also updated the maps and chronology in Appendix
A.

Inclusion of state-only provisions in the SIP

As SIP-strengthening measures, the Commission adopted state-only requirements into
the SIP. Specifically, the Commission adopted requirements for specific 1,000 hp
engines (requirements adopted in 2020), requirements for new well production facilities
and natural gas compressor stations to use non-emitting pneumatic controllers
(requirements adopted in 2021), and requirements to control emissions from the loadout
of hydrocarbon liquids from storage tanks to transport vehicles (requirements adopted in
2019). The engine tables A and B in Part E, Section I.D.4.c were built based on operator
engine reporting that began in 2021.

As part of that reporting, operators identified engines fleet-wide that could achieve
emission reductions through permitted emissions reductions, installation of additional
controls, and engine replacement. The listing of specific engines in Table A does not
preclude operators the ability to replace an engine in accordance with an authorized
Alternative Operating Scenario (AOS) contained in a permit provided that the
replacement engine meets or exceeds the applicable emission standard of the engine
being replaced, in accordance with Sections I.D.5.b.(vi)(A) or I.D.5.b.(vi)(B). These



                                                                                         661
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements for pneumatic controllers, loadout, and specific engines now apply in the
SIP for subject owners or operators in the ozone nonattainment area. In providing
different compliance schedules for the provisions as included in the SIP as compared to
the compliance schedules adopted with as state-only, the Commission does not intend
to provide a gap in compliance for owners or operators already complying with the
state-only provisions but includes compliance dates for SIP applicability purposes.

Gasoline tank truck testing

The Commission expanded the gasoline tank truck testing provisions to encourage the
use of emission controls and support year-round testing. The testing provisions, based
on EPA’s CTGs, in particular the Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from
Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection Systems (1978), limited testing to October
through April. Neither EPA’s CTGs nor the required Method 27 limit the calendar time
during which testing must occur but both direct that gasoline vapors be purged from the
gasoline tank truck before conducting the leak-tightness test to avoid residual gasoline
vapors causing testing inconsistencies. Because these provisions are in Colorado’s SIP,
Colorado must demonstrate that revising the provisions will not cause an interference
with Colorado’s ability to attain or maintain the NAAQS. See CAA 110(l). The estimated
uncontrolled emissions from the testing of 1,800 gasoline tank trucks (tests in 2021) are
80 tpy.

Currently, there are four testing facilities located in the DM/NFR, four located outside the
DM/NFR, and two remote testing facilities. Controlling the purged vapors that occur as
part of the testing procedure would result in an emissions reduction of 76 tpy, if all
testing facilities chose the proposed testing schedule option. To use this year-round
testing schedule option, testing facility operators must also control vapor purge
emissions that occur for other reasons, such as gasoline tank truck repair, which would
result in additional controlled emissions reductions. The Commission also adopted
combustion device inspection and monitoring requirements to maintain equipment,
improve performance, and reduce emissions. As with a similar provision adopted in
2019, the Commission does not intend that owners or operators should shut-in the
combustor for the sole purpose of performing the inspection of the burner tray. Further,



                                                                                         662
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

owner or operators need only inspect those portions of the burner trays that are visible
without shutting-in the combustor. Therefore, the option allowing year-round testing so
long as the testing facility operator controls all vapor purge emissions from testing or
other purging will reduce emissions and will not interfere with attainment or
maintenance of the NAAQS.

Clean-up

The Commission adopted revisions to reflect the intended reporting time frame in Part
E, Section I.D.5., correcting the reporting start year from 2022 to 2023. The reporting
requirement in Part E Section I.D.5.g.(iii) is for monitoring that did not begin until 2022.
Operators are supposed to report monitoring information from the “previous calendar
year.”

The Commission corrected typographical errors in Part D, Section II.H., specifically in
Section II.H.3.c. to correct numbering, in Section II.H.2.f.(i) to correct a citation, and in
Section II.H.1.c.(vii) to correct applicability, and in Section II.H.5.c. to correct a
numbering error.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7.

Supplemental Information

Improving air quality in Disproportionately Impacted (DI) Communities is critical and the
Commission is committed to advancing Environmental Justice. Though these SIP
revisions may not have strategies that limit emissions in DI Communities specifically, the
Commission is committed to doing so in future hearings. The ozone reductions
garnered by these SIP revisions will improve the health of DI and other communities.



                                                                                           663
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission intends to continue to reduce ozone precursors that are so often
emitted in or near DI Communities. These precursors and the ozone they form and
other pollutants can have serious health impacts. It is anticipated that EPA will have
Environmental Justice Guidance soon and the Commission encourages the Division to
use this guidance and the CDPHE’s Environmental Justice Action Task Force
recommendations, and to continue the work it is doing and to prepare regulations that
will improve Air Quality and health in DI Communities. Consistent with its mandates to
expeditiously attain the ozone NAAQS, reduce greenhouse gases, and protect
disproportionately impacted communities, the Commission expects the Division to work
with the Regional Air Quality Council to commence stakeholder processes in 2023 to
evaluate ozone reduction strategies, and their benefits and impacts on the Division’s
other air quality and equity goals, and propose to the Commission for rulemaking those
beneficial and cost-effective strategies needed to achieve attainment of the 2008 and
2015 ozone standards.

The stakeholder process should evaluate ozone reduction strategies across a broad
range of ozone precursor sources, which should include, at a minimum:

   •   Prohibitions on gasoline-powered lawn and garden equipment sales, and further
       incentives for the conversion of gas-powered equipment to electric;

   •   Additional non-road equipment reduction strategies;

   •   Building and appliance efficiency standards;

   •   Residential auto maintenance incentives;

   •   Commercial diesel best practices initiatives;

   •   Advanced Clean Cars II standards;

   •   Strengthening the vehicle inspection and maintenance program;

   •   Mobile source credits as part of nonattainment new source review;

   •   Additional/permanent funding for VMT reducing strategies such as zero-fare
       transit, increased transit services, and bicycle and walking infrastructure;

   •   Emission reduction approaches for indirect sources;


                                                                                         664
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

      •   Additional industrial source emission reduction requirements, such as flaring
          minimization requirements at applicable sources, episodic and seasonal
          restrictions on industrial and commercial activities, oil and gas pre-production
          activities, rules to reduce emissions from gas-fired reciprocating internal
          combustion engines (RICE) in the oil and gas sector, requiring emission offsets
          or aggregation of wellhead and production facility equipment when permitting oil
          and gas sector minor sources, and zero-emitting retrofits for all existing
          pneumatic devices;

      •   and any other measures that the Division determines would assist in attainment
          of the ozone NAAQS.

In the case of the Colorado Clean Cars rule, the Commission expects that the Division
will make a proposal consistent with the State’s 2023 Electric Vehicle Plan. Per its 2019
resolution, the Commission expects the Division to report on the impacts and benefits of
proposed ozone reduction strategies on achieving the state’s nitrogen deposition
reduction goals in Rocky Mountain National Park as part of future ozone reduction
rulemakings.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the severe and moderate ozone
nonattainment area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the
provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone
NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS.
Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to satisfy
Colorado’s nonattainment area obligations. These revisions do not exceed or differ from
the federal act due to state flexibility in determining what control strategies to implement
to reduce emissions. However, where the proposal may differ from federal rules under
the federal act, in accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS, the Commission
determines:

(I)       The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address process heaters, boilers, turbines,
          engines, ceramic kilns, dryers, furnaces, wood coating, solvent use, industrial
          waste, bakery operations, poultry waste operations, digital printing, gasoline tank


                                                                                             665
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        trucks, automotive materials, and the oil and gas sector. NSPS OOOO, NSPS
        OOOOa, NSPS Kb, NSPS KKK, NSPS IIII, NSPS JJJJ, NSPS GG, MACT KK,
        MACT DDDDD, MACT JJJJJJ, MACT BBBBBBB, MACT CCCCCC, MACT
        ZZZZ, MACT YYYY, MACT HH, MACT HHH, and 40 CFR Part 59 Subpart B may
        also apply to and the above listed equipment and operations. However, the
        revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 and 2015 NAAQS and requires Colorado to
        develop SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone
        NAAQS was not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado.
        Similarly, EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and
        data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area RACT obligations.
        Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its SIP directly, as the
        Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower 2015
        ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established Colorado’s SIP-RACT implementation deadlines. There is
        no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 strengthen Colorado’s SIP. These sections
        currently address emissions from combustion equipment, wood coating, solvent
        use, industrial waste, bakery operations, poultry waste operations, digital printing,




                                                                                          666
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        gasoline tank trucks, automotive materials, and the oil and gas sector in a cost-
        effective manner, allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
        Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
        This outcome may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable.
        The revisions concerning major sources of NOx generally reflect current
        emission controls and work practices.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help
        to attain the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in
        an unapprovable SIP.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone nonattainment area
requirements. However, to the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this
rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission
hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.


                                                                                       667
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of VOCs and NOx emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

AA.     April 20, 2023
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation Number
22, the Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts and
sections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such as
the Commission, to review their rules and consider whether the rule is necessary;
whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of the agency or with other federal,
state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain language and is
easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more
or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more flexibility,
reduce regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while
maintaining its benefits; whether the rule is implemented in an efficient and effective


                                                                                          668
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

  manner, including the requirements for the issuance of permits and licenses; whether a
  cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making agency; and whether
  the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state or its
  residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the
  existing rules should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed.

  Purpose

  The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
  Regulation Number 7. The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four
  regulations: Part B became Regulation Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number
  25; Part D remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E became Regulation Number
  26. The upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program provisions
  currently in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing
  sector greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation
  Number 27.

  To assist in tracking the history of the regulatory revisions, associated statements of
  basis and purpose, and restructured location, the Commission provides the following
  tracking table.



 Year of     Date of      Summary of rule(s)        Regulation      Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule         rule              adopted             7 Section         Section          Section (as
adoption    adoption                                 (pre-2019       (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                    numbering)          as of
                                                                      12.2022)

1995        Dec. 21      Clarify substances that    Section II.B.   Part A,            Regulations
                         are negligibly reactive                    Section II.B.      7 and 24-26,
                         VOCs.                                                         Part A

1996        Mar. 21      Revisions related to       Sections        Part A,            Regulations
                         the maintenance            I.A.1.          Sections           7 and 24-26,
                                                    through         I.A.1. through



                                                                                                669
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation       Regulation 7             Rule &
  rule       rule             adopted            7 Section          Section           Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019        (numbering          of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)               as of
                                                                    12.2022)

                      demonstration.            I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;      Part A
                                                II.E.            II.E.

1996       Nov. 21    Updated NRVOC list.       Section XII.     NA                  NA
                      Removed control of
                      VOC emissions from
                      dry cleaning facilities
                      using
                      perchloroethylene.




1998       Oct. 15    Revisions specific to     Section II.F.    NA                  Regulation
                      Gates Rubber                                                   24-25, Part A
                      Company.




2001       Jan. 11    Correct discrepancies     Sections         Part B,             Regulation
                      in posted versus          III.C.;          Section I.;         24, Part B;
                      adopted provisions.       IX.L.2.c.(1);    Part C,             Regulation
                                                X.D.2.           Section I.;         25, Part B
                                                through          Part C,             (fkna Part C)
                                                XI.A.3.          Sections II.
                                                                 through III.




                                                                                              670
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation       Regulation 7           Rule &
  rule       rule              adopted           7 Section          Section           Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019        (numbering          of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)               as of
                                                                    12.2022)




2003       Nov. 20    Repealed provisions       Sections         Part A,             Regulations
                      establishing a            I.A.2.           Sections            7 and 24-26,
                      procedure for granting    through          I.A.1. through      Part A
                      exemptions for de         I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;
                      minimis sources and       II.E.            II.E.
                      for approving
                      alternative compliance
                      plans.




2004       Mar. 12    Revisions adopted in      Sections         Part A,             Regulations
                      conjunction with the      I.A.; I.B.;      Section I.A.;       7 and 24-26,
                      early action compact      XII.; XVI.       Part A,             Part A
                      ozone action plan –                        Section I.B.;
                      control of emissions                       Part D,
                      from condensate                            Section I.;
                      operation at oil and                       Part E,
                      gas facilities,                            Section I.
                      emissions from internal
                      combustion engines,
                      emissions from gas



                                                                                              671
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)      Regulation     Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted            7 Section        Section          Section (as
adoption   adoption                             (pre-2019      (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                               numbering)          as of
                                                                12.2022)

                      processing plants, and
                      emissions from oil and
                      gas operations
                      dehydrators.


2004       Dec. 16    Revisions adopted in     Sections       Part A,            Regulations
                      response to EPA          I.A.; II.A.;   Section I.A.;      7 and 24-26,
                      comments (re practical   XII.; XVI.;    Part A,            Part A
                      enforceability) on the                  Section II.A.;
                      ozone action plan                       Part D,
                      adopted 3/2004.                         Section I.;
                                                              Part E,
                                                              Section I.

2006       Dec. 17    Expanding oil and gas    Section XII.   Part D,            Regulation 7,
                      condensate tank                         Section I.         Part B (fkna
                      emission controls.                                         Part D)



2006       Dec. 17    Reduce emissions         Sections       Part A,            Regulation 7,
                      from oil and gas         I.A.1.b.;      Section I.A.;      Part A and
                      operations and natural   XVII.          Part D.,           Part B (fkna
                      gas fired engines.                      Section II. &      Part D);
                                                              Part E.            Regulation
                                                              Section I. (for    26, Part A
                                                              engines)           and Part B




                                                                                          672
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation      Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted             7 Section           Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019       (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)            as of
                                                                     12.2022)

                                                                                   (fkna Part E)

2008       Dec. 12    Expand VOC RACT           Title;          Part A,            Regulation
                      requirements for 100      Sections I.;    Section I.;        24, Part B;
                      tpy sources and clarify   II.; VI.        Part A,            Regulation
                      how RACT                  through         Section II.;       25, Part B
                      requirements in           XIII.; XVII.;   Part B,            (fkna Part C);
                      Regulation Numbers 3      XVIII.; and     Sections IV.       Regulation 7,
                      and 7 interact in the     Appendices      through VI. &      Part B (fkna
                      ozone nonattainment       A through F     Part C,            Part D);
                      area. Make                                Sections I.        Regulation
                      typographical and                         through IV. &      26, Part B
                      formatting changes.                       Part D,            (fkna Part E)
                      Revise oil and gas                        Section I.;
                      condensate tank and                       Part D,
                      pneumatic controller                      Section II.
                      requirements.                             and Part E,
                                                                Section I. (for
                                                                engines); Part
                                                                D, Section III.;
                                                                Part A,
                                                                Appendix A. &
                                                                Part B,
                                                                Appendices B
                                                                and C & Part
                                                                C,



                                                                                         673
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)      Regulation      Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted            7 Section         Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                             (pre-2019       (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                               numbering)           as of
                                                                  12.2022)

                                                               Appendices D
                                                               and E
                                                               (formerly
                                                               Appendix F)




2011       Jan. 7     Include engine           Outline;        Part A,           Regulation
                      requirements in the      Sections I.;    Section I.;       26, Part B
                      Regional Haze SIP.       XVII.           Part E,           (fkna Part E)
                                                               Section I.



2012       Dec. 20    Address EPA              Sections II.;   Part A,           Regulation 7,
                      comments on the June     XII.; XVII.     Section II.;      Part B (fkna
                      2009 submittal. Revise                   Part D,           Part D)
                      state-only                               Section I.;
                      requirements for                         Part D,
                      consistency.                             Section II.




2014       Feb. 23    Adopt additional oil     Sections II.;   Part A,           Regulation 7,



                                                                                       674
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation      Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted             7 Section         Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019       (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)           as of
                                                                   12.2022)

                      and gas emission          XVII.; XVIII.   Section II.;      Part B (fkna
                      reduction requirements                    Part D,           Part D)
                      – auto-igniters, expand                   Section II.;
                      condensate tank                           Part D,
                      controls, limit storage                   Section III.
                      tank venting, expand
                      dehydrator control,
                      establish leak
                      detection and repair
                      program, limit venting
                      during well
                      maintenance and
                      liquids unloading,
                      expand pneumatic
                      controller
                      requirements.




2016       Nov. 17    Adopt RACT                Sections I.;    Part A,           Regulation
                      requirements for          X.; XII.;       Section I.;       25, Part B
                      industrial cleaning       XIII.; XVI.;    Part C,           (fkna Part C);
                      solvents, lithographic    XIX.            Section II.;      Regulation 7,



                                                                                        675
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation      Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted             7 Section         Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019       (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)           as of
                                                                   12.2022)

                      and letterpress                           Part D,           Part B (fkna
                      printing, and specific                    Section I.;       Part D);
                      major sources.                            Part C,           Regulation
                      Including existing                        Section IV.;      26, Part B
                      combustion device                         Part C,           (fkna Part E)
                      auto-igniter and                          Section V.;
                      storage tank inspection                   Part E,
                      requirements in the                       Section III.
                      SIP. Adopting major
                      source combustion
                      equipment combustion
                      process adjustment
                      requirements and
                      incorporate by
                      reference NSPS and
                      NESHAP for specific
                      major sources.




2017       Nov. 16    Adopt provisions          Sections II.;   Part A,           Regulation 7,
                      based on                  XII.; XVII.;    Section II.;      Part B (fkna
                      recommendations in        XVIII.          Part D,           Part D)
                      EPA’s Oil and Gas                         Section I.;
                      Control Techniques                        Part D,
                      Guideline. Revise                         Section II.;


                                                                                        676
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)      Regulation         Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted            7 Section            Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                             (pre-2019          (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                               numbering)              as of
                                                                     12.2022)

                      state-only                                  Part D,
                      requirements for                            Section III.
                      consistency.




2018       July 19    Adopt requirements for   Sections           Part E,           Regulation
                      existing major source    XVI.; XIX.         Section II.,      26, Part B
                      boilers, turbines,                          Part E,           (fkna Part E)
                      lightweight aggregate                       Section III.
                      kilns, glass melting
                      furnaces, engines.




2018       Nov. 15    Adopt requirements for   Sections I.;       Part A,           Regulation
                      major source             II.; VI.; VIII.;   Section I.;       24, Part B;
                      breweries and wood       IX.; X.; XII.;     Part A,           Regulation
                      furniture                XIII.; XVI.;       Section II.;      25, Part B
                      manufacturing.           XVII.; XIX.;       Part B,           (fkna Part C);
                      Address EPA concerns     XX.; XXI.          Section IV;       Regulation 7,
                      with requirements for                       Part B,           Part B (fkna
                      industrial cleaning                         Section VI.;      Part D);
                      solvents, metal                             Part C,           Regulation
                      furniture surface                           Section I.;       26, Part B
                      coating, and                                Part C,           (fkna Part E);



                                                                                          677
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation    Regulation 7            Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted             7 Section       Section          Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019     (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)           as of
                                                                 12.2022)

                      miscellaneous metal                     Section X.;        Regulation
                      surface coating.                        Part D,            23 (fkna Part
                      Updated incorporation                   Section I.;        F)
                      by reference dates.                     Part C,
                                                              Section IV.;
                                                              Part C,
                                                              Section V.;
                                                              Part D,
                                                              Section II.;
                                                              Part E,
                                                              Section III.;
                                                              Part E,
                                                              Section IV.
                                                              Part F




2019       Dec. 19    Reorganized into Parts    Sections I.   (see
                      A through F. Replaced     through XX.   reorganization
                      the SIP system-wide       and           cross walk)
                      condensate tank           Appendices
                      control program with a    A through F
                      fixed threshold storage
                      tank control program.
                      Increased state-only,
                      state-wide storage


                                                                                        678
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

Year of    Date of     Summary of rule(s)      Regulation   Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted           7 Section      Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                            (pre-2019    (numbering       of 4.2023)
                                               numbering)      as of
                                                              12.2022)

                      tank controls. Adopted
                      oil and gas storage
                      tank measurement
                      system, hydrocarbon
                      liquids loadout, leak
                      detection and repair,
                      well plugging, and
                      pneumatic controller
                      requirements. Adopted
                      an oil and gas
                      transmission and
                      storage segment
                      methane intensity
                      program. Adopted an
                      annual oil and gas
                      inventory program.
                      Expanded SIP
                      requirements to 50 tpy
                      sources. Aligned
                      gasoline tank truck
                      testing requirements
                      with federal
                      requirements as SIP
                      clean-up.




                                                                                  679
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)         Regulation   Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule       rule              adopted            7 Section       Section          Section (as
adoption   adoption                               (pre-2019     (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                  numbering)        as of
                                                                  12.2022)




2020       Sept. 23   Adopted requirements                     Part D,            Regulation 7,
                      for natural gas fired                    Sections II.;      Part B (fkna
                      1,000 horsepower                         IV.; V.; VI.;      Part D);
                      engines. Adopted                         Part E,            Regulation
                      flowback vessel control                  Section I.         26, Part B
                      requirements and pre-                                       (fkna Part E)
                      and early-production
                      monitoring
                      requirements.
                      Expanded
                      hydrocarbon liquids
                      loadout requirements
                      to class II disposal well
                      facilities.

2020       Dec. 18    Adopted requirements                     Part D,            Regulation 7,
                      for major source foam                    Section II.;       Part B (fkna
                      manufacturing, boilers,                  Part E,            Part D);
                      turbines, landfill and                   Sections II.;      Regulation
                      biogas fired engines,                    IV.; V.            26, Part B
                      and wood surface                                            (fkna Part E)
                      coating.

2021       Feb. 18    Adopted non-emitting                     Part D,            Regulation 7,



                                                                                        680
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)        Regulation   Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule       rule             adopted            7 Section        Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                              (pre-2019     (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                 numbering)         as of
                                                                 12.2022)

                      pneumatic controller                    Section III.       Part B (fkna
                      requirements for new                                       Part D)
                      facilities and existing
                      pneumatic controller
                      retrofit requirements
                      for existing facilities.

2021       July 16    Adopted requirements                    Part C,            Regulation
                      for metal parts surface                 Section I.;        25, Part B
                      coating and major                       Part D,            (fkna Part C);
                      source process                          Section III.;      Regulation 7,
                      heaters.                                Part E,            Part B (fkna
                                                              Section II.        Part D);
                                                                                 Regulation
                                                                                 26, Part B
                                                                                 (fkna Part E)

2021       Dec. 17    Adopted SIP revisions                   Part D,            Regulation 7,
                      to address EPA                          Sections I., II., Part B (fkna
                      concerns with the EPA                   III., V., VI.      Part D)
                      Oil and Gas CTG.
                      Adopted oil and gas
                      combustion device
                      performance testing
                      requirements.
                      Expanded
                      reciprocating



                                                                                       681
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

Year of    Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation   Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted            7 Section      Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                             (pre-2019    (numbering       of 4.2023)
                                                numbering)      as of
                                                               12.2022)

                      compressor rod
                      packing, leak detection
                      and repair, and
                      pneumatic controller
                      requirements at natural
                      gas processing plants.
                      Expanded leak
                      detection and repair,
                      separator, and well
                      maintenance
                      requirements. Adopted
                      pigging and blowdown
                      requirements.




                                                                                   682
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

 Year of   Date of     Summary of rule(s)          Regulation   Regulation 7             Rule &
  rule       rule             adopted              7 Section        Section            Section (as
adoption   adoption                                (pre-2019     (numbering            of 4.2023)
                                                   numbering)         as of
                                                                   12.2022)

2022       Dec. 15    Adopted requirements                      Part E,               Regulation
                      for major source                          Sections I., II., 24, Part B
                      combustion                                III., VI., VII.,      (fkna Part B);
                      equipment, wood                           and VIII., Part       Regulation
                      coating, solvent use,                     C., Sections          25, Part B
                      bakery operation,                         I., II., and IV.,     (fkna Part C);
                      digital printing, poultry                 and Part D,           Regulation 7,
                      waste processing, oil                     Section II.;          Part B (fkna
                      stabilization facilities,                 Part D,               Part D);
                      class II injection well                   Sections II., ;       Regulation
                      facilities, and industrial                Part A,               26, Part B
                      waste; included state                     Sections I.           (fkna Part E)
                      only provisions as SIP                    and II.; Part
                      strengthening                             C, Section I.;
                      measures; clarified the                   and Part B,
                      applicability of                          Section IV.
                      requirements to newly
                      classified ozone
                      nonattainment areas;
                      included requirements
                      for motor vehicle
                      materials and
                      automotive coatings;
                      expanded gasoline
                      tank truck testing




                                                                                            683
  CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
  Air Quality Control Commission

Year of       Date of       Summary of rule(s)        Regulation    Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule          rule              adopted              7 Section       Section         Section (as
adoption     adoption                                  (pre-2019    (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                      numbering)        as of
                                                                      12.2022)

                           requirements.

  The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
  throughout the regulations.

  Incorporation by Reference

  The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

  Additional Considerations

  These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from
  the requirement of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

  Findings of Fact

  To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
  considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
  determination that:

  (I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
  scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
  by interested parties.

  (II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
  demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

  (III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
  reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
  implement and comply with the rules.

  (IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction
  in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.




                                                                                            684
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation
in the most cost-effective manner.

BB.     July 20, 2023 (Part B Sections II, V, and VIII)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted House Bill
19-1261 (HB 19-1261), setting statewide greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals. The
General Assembly declared in HB 19-1261 that “climate change adversely affects
Colorado’s economy, air quality and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and
quality of life[,]” acknowledged that “Colorado is already experiencing harmful climate
impacts[,]” and that “many of these impacts disproportionately affect” certain
disadvantaged communities. The goals set in HB 19-1261 seek a 26% reduction of
statewide GHG emissions by 2025; 50% reduction by 2030; and 90% reduction by 2050
as compared to 2005 levels. The GHG Pollution Reduction Roadmap (“GHG
Roadmap”) developed by the Colorado Energy Office and CDPHE identifies the largest
contributors to state GHG emissions and quantifies the baselines from which these
reduction percentages are to be estimated.

In December 2021, the Commission adopted a revision to this regulation that
established greenhouse gas intensity requirements for upstream operators and required
owners or operators of well production facilities to submit greenhouse gas intensity
plans. The primary purpose of these plans is for owners or operators to demonstrate to
the Division how they intend to meet the 2025, 2027, and 2030 greenhouse gas
intensity targets in Sections VIII.B.2. through VIII.B.4. In Section VIII.F., the Commission
directed the Division to develop a mechanism to track progress towards meeting the
state’s GHG reduction goals and to evaluate compliance with the greenhouse gas
intensity targets and new facility intensity targets in Sections VIII.B. and VIII.C. The
Commission determined that it was advisable to give the Division time in 2021 and 2022


                                                                                           685
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(1) to evaluate the annual emission reports submitted in 2021 and 2022, (2) to evaluate
different calculation and emission quantification methodologies for different emitting
activities and equipment, and (3) to consider the impact and results of the aerial and
ground-based survey work being conducted by the Division (and contractors) in 2021
(because this data was not fully available until the spring of 2022) as well as other
relevant surveys. The Commission directed the Division to, by 2023, propose a
verification plan after considering the current status of oil and gas GHG emissions,
based on Regulation Number 7 reporting and top-down monitoring results, production
increases or decreases based on data reported to the OGCC, the aerial and ground-
based survey work, and other important considerations, such as the availability,
reliability, and cost-effectiveness of monitoring techniques as appropriate.

In this rulemaking action, the Commission has adopted a comprehensive GHG intensity
verification program for upstream operators that allows for operator flexibility and the
ability to adapt to new technologies as they emerge.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of Article 7. The Act provides the Commission broad authority to regulate
air pollutants, including GHG and its constituent gases (particularly carbon dioxide,
methane, and nitrous oxide).

§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to
promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission
to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information. § 25-7-109(10) directs the Commission to adopt emission control




                                                                                           686
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from
oil and gas operations.

Pursuant to HB 21-1266, the Commission must adopt regulations to ensure that the
state meets its greenhouse gas reduction targets for the oil and gas sector in the GHG
Roadmap (36% by 2025 and 60% by 2030). § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XII), C.R.S. The
Commission must also ensure that industrial sector emissions (including those from oil
and gas fuel combustion equipment) are reduced by 20% from the 2015 baseline by
2030. These revisions ensure that the state meets its statutory goals. These revisions to
Regulation Number 22 will, taking into account other relevant laws and rules (including
the revisions to Regulation Number 7 adopted as part of this rulemaking action), as well
as voluntary actions taken by local communities and the private sector, achieve the
state’s GHG reduction goals through 2030 for the oil and gas industry.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Section II, Pressure Actuator System

The Commission adopted an acceptable alternative to flow meters, a pressure actuator
system, for monitoring enclosed combustion devices to confirm that the enclosed
combustion device is being operated appropriately. A pressure actuator system monitors
pressure and provides an operator more control of their vapor control system to ensure
it is operating within design parameters. This system was discussed as an alternative in
2021, but the concept was not clearly understood by the Division or operators at that
time. The Division has since approved several proposals that use pressure actuator
systems as an alternative to flow meters (as allowed by II.B.2.g.(iii)(C)). The
Commission intends that those approvals remain valid; however, to comply with Section
II.B.2.g. an owner or operator may choose to notify the Division that it rescinds its
approved proposal and that it instead will adhere to the pressure actuator system
requirements of II.B.2.g.




                                                                                        687
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Section V, Oil and Natural Gas Annual Emission Inventory Report (ONGAEIR)

The Commission has adopted revisions to the annual reporting requirement for oil and
gas owners and operators in Section V to support GHG intensity verification and
reporting. The Commission has also adopted a revised requirement for the owners or
operators of oil and natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural
gas processing plant and class II disposal well facilities that are not subject to reporting
under Section IV. Such owners and operators are now required to submit their annual
emission reporting (ONGAEIR) with emissions identified by month beginning with
calendar year 2024 reporting, which will be due by June 30, 2025.

Section VIII.A, Definitions

The Commission adopted new definitions in Section VIII.A for “Certified third-party
auditor,” “Measurement informed inventory,” “Direct measurement,” “Oil and Natural Gas
Annual Emissions Inventory Report (ONGAEIR)”, “Parametric measurement”,
“Measurement strategy” and “State default intensity verification factor” to clarify the
terms as used in Section VIII.F.

Section VIII.F. and VIII.G., GHG Intensity Verification

In December of 2021, the Commission adopted language in Section VIII.F.1. that
directed the Division to develop a mechanism by 2023 to track progress towards
meeting the state’s GHG reduction goals and to evaluate compliance with the
greenhouse gas intensity targets and new facility intensity targets in Sections VIII.B. and
VIII.C. In this action, the Commission repealed Section VIII.F.1. and replaced that
section with the new Sections VIII.F.2 – 5 and VIII.G. The new Sections VIII.F.2- 5 and
VIII.G. achieve the directives given in the December 2021 rulemaking.

In Section VIII.F.2 - 3., the Commission adopted requirements for methodologies and
strategies for operators to demonstrate compliance or verify their company-wide and
new facility GHG intensity. Subject owners and operators must use a measurement-
informed inventory relying upon the Oil and Natural Gas Annual Emission Inventory
Reports (ONGAEIR) required in Section V to demonstrate that the targets in Sections
VIII.B and C are being met. The inventory must also take into account quantification of



                                                                                          688
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

emissions from regional, local, or point source monitoring (emission or parametric
measurement monitoring). The Commission intends that monitoring be used to quantify
methane in the creation of a measurement-informed inventory.

For calendar years 2023 and 2024, operators of new facilities will use their ONGAEIR
alone to calculate intensity to compare against new facility intensity standards. For
subsequent calendar years, operators of new facilities will be required to determine
intensity in accordance with the methods to create a measurement-informed inventory.

To create a measurement-informed inventory, operators will either:

   •   apply a state default intensity verification factor to their ONGAEIR methane
       emissions, or

   •   follow an operator-specific program, subject to Division approval.

Section VIII.F.3.a., State Default Intensity Verification Factor

The state default intensity verification factor must be developed by the Division annually,
and made available to operators by December 31 of the previous calendar year to
which the state default intensity verification factor will be applied. The Commission
directs the Division to include aerial and ground based emission monitoring, as well as
other appropriate monitoring, to create the state default intensity verification factor. The
state default intensity verification factor may be statewide, regional, basin-wide, or site
specific, and the methodology may change year to year with appropriate review and
public comment. The Commission intends for the Division to strive for general
consistency in developing this factor, while still keeping up with, and making necessary
changes in response to, the evolving technology landscape for emissions detection and
measurement. The Commission also directs the Division to make all data and materials
used to create the state default intensity verification factor publicly available, and
include a summary report of the methodology and calculations annually. To the extent
possible, emissions measurements should be compared against emission reporting for
the same time period, and any assumptions about longevity, scaling, and emission
distribution must be clearly identified in the report.

Section VIII.F.3.b., Company-wide GHG Intensity Verification Program



                                                                                         689
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The minimum requirements of the operator-specific program are laid out in Section
VIII.F.3.b. The operator-specific program includes two important elements to verify that
the company’s GHG emission reporting meet the requirements for a measurement-
informed inventory: 1) a measurement strategy and 2) a third-party audit.

1)     Measurement Strategy

The measurement strategy may be developed by the Division or, beginning in 2027, by
the intensity operator. The Commission intends that the measurement strategy
addresses emissions from all types of facilities, of various sizes, of various frequencies,
and across the day and year. The measurement strategy must explain the
considerations and reasoning for the operator’s selections. To fully inform emissions
calculations from all facilities, the number of facilities monitored must be sufficient to
represent that company’s portfolio of well production facility types. Well production
facilities can be characterized by size, stages of separation, storage tank type, age, and
other distinguishing factors. Further, emissions vary in both size and frequency. Some
emissions are very small but consistent, while others are large and intermittent or
infrequent. The measurement strategy must account for these varying conditions.
Finally, the measurement strategy must consider opportunities for data collection at
different times of day and during different seasons. The measurement strategy must
include direct measurement and may also include parametric measurement. The
measurement strategy should be supported by other inputs, if needed, and the
measurement strategy (in conjunction with ONGAEIR) should demonstrate with
sufficient precision that the operator is accurately calculating its required intensity. Such
other inputs could include parametric measurement, statistical analysis of direct
measurements to extrapolate the results of sampled measurements, and reconciliation
between inventory-based emissions and measured emissions.

Direct Measurement

The Commission intends that a variety of previously validated monitoring equipment
and methodologies may be used for the measurement strategy, but all measurement
strategies must utilize direct measurement at the site-level. By “site-level,” the
Commission means that direct methane emission measurements must be able to be


                                                                                             690
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

attributed to a specific site, stationary source, or facility. Technologies that are designed
to measure methane emissions from various emission points at a site or technologies
that are designed to measure the overall site-wide methane emissions from a site are
acceptable.

To ensure that the direct measurement technologies and methodologies are “fit for
purpose, capture a sufficient portion of expected emissions, and be validated with
appropriate testing”, the Division or the operator must consider the uncertainty of the
method, the minimum detection level at a probability of detection of at least 90%, the
rigorousness of the testing, and the frequency of the monitoring.

Parametric Measurement

Where parametric measurement is utilized, the measurement strategy must detail how
the parametric data informs emission calculations. For example, if a pressure actuator
and temperature sensor is used to monitor an enclosed combustion device, the
measurement strategy must outline how the readings will impact the emissions
calculations for control efficiency or downtime.

The Commission has indicated in Section VIII.F.3.b.(i)(B) that the Division may consider
other reasonable and necessary monitoring considerations in the development of a
measurement strategy. The Commission intends that any such additional monitoring
considerations (i) be necessary to ensure development of a measurement-informed
inventory, (ii) consider the commercial viability and availability of the proposed
monitoring technology or consideration, and (iii) be reasonably tied to the purposes set
forth by this Commission in adopting these rules.

The Commission understands that at this time, there is no single or group of monitoring
technologies that will accurately quantify or detect all emissions all of the time. The
Commission intends that the measurement strategy utilize currently available
technologies to inform emissions, be reviewed annually, and be updated as new and
validated technologies and methodologies arise and where the operator determines
measurement strategy changes will result in more accurate and comprehensive
understanding of greenhouse gas emissions.




                                                                                          691
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission intends for the Division to complete, for each year from 2026 through
2031, a comprehensive review of operators’ measurement strategy and implementation
of the measurement strategy for the preceding calendar year. The comprehensive
review will aid the Division in assessing prior assumptions about available technology,
deployment of that technology, methods of reconciliation, and other aspects of the
measurement strategy and implementation, and determining whether these aspects
should continue to be utilized or should be modified. The Commission intends for the
Division to update the GHG Intensity Verification Protocol document as necessary in
response to the findings of the Division’s comprehensive review.

2)     Third-Party Audit

The Commission intends for operators to have a certified third party auditor complete a
review of the operator’s ONGAEIR reporting. The certified third-party auditor must have
no financial incentive to that operator, must have expertise in emission calculation and
developing emission inventories, and have stringent processes in place to retain
integrity, transparency, and trust.

In Section VIII.F.3.b.(iii), the Commission intends that the Division have the option to
require an operator to revise their operator-specific program or deny the operator-
specific program and require the operator to utilize the state default intensity verification
factor. The Commission expects that this would only apply to an operator who has
significantly failed to comply with the operator-specific program (the measurement
strategy, the audit or both) such that they have not developed a measurement-informed
inventory that can be relied upon to determine compliance with the intensity standard.
Less significant errors or corrections can be addressed through the Division’s existing
authorities.

Section VIII.F.4., GHG Intensity Verification Protocol

In Section VIII.F.2.c., the Commission adopted provisions that direct the Division to
create and maintain a protocol for intensity verification. This Intensity Verification
Protocol will detail how the Division will update the state default intensity verification
factor(s) and how operators must develop their operator-specific programs.




                                                                                             692
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Intensity Verification Protocol must include the measurement strategies developed
by the Division, the methodology to calculate the state default intensity verification
factor, guidance to operators in developing their own measurement strategies (for
calendar year 2027 through 2030), a list of expectations for certified third party auditors,
and guidance on reporting requirements as designated in Section VIII.G. During the
development of the protocol and any modifications to it, the Commission intends for the
Division to collaborate with all stakeholders, including local governments, regarding the
methodologies used to calculate default intensity verification factor(s).

The Commission is aware of several Measurement, Reporting, Verification (MRV)
frameworks that would support a measurement-informed inventory for methane,
including the United Nations Environment Programme Oil and Gas Methane Partnership
2.0 (OGMP 2.0); MiQ, GTI Veritas; CleanConnect ProveZero; Project Canary/Trustwell;
Quantification, Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (QMRV); and others. The
Commission intends for the division to evaluate these and other newly developed
programs to identify how they will support the requirements of the operator-specific
intensity verification program.

The Commission expects that a final Version 1.0 of the Intensity Verification Protocol will
be completed by December 31, 2023, but no later than June 30, 2024. The Commission
intends for the Division to continue engagement with stakeholders in the development
and finalization of Version 1.0 of the Intensity Verification Protocol.

Beginning in 2025, the Commission intends for the Division to review the protocol
annually and identify revisions, if needed. Any future revisions to the protocol must
include public review and comment, and should be published by June 30 of the
calendar year preceding the effectiveness of the protocol (e.g. by June 30, 2025 for
reporting year 2026).

Section VIII.G., Reporting

The Commission adopted new reporting requirements and consolidated existing annual
verifications into Section VIII.G. The Commission requires that intensity operators
intending to follow an operator-specific program provide a summary of their
measurement strategy to the Division three months before the start of the calendar year


                                                                                         693
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

for which they intend to use the strategy. This summary should include the information
outlined in the Intensity Verification Protocol developed by the Division, such as the
types of technologies being used, the key specifications for those technologies (i.e., the
minimum detection level at 90% probability of detection), the anticipated frequency of
monitoring, and a description of how the results from the measurements conducted
under the strategy will be incorporated into ONGAEIR.

The Commission also expanded on the annual verification requirement to include
reporting of the company-wide and new facility greenhouse gas intensity and whether
an intensity operator elected to use the state default intensity verification factor or used
an operator-specific program to create a measurement-informed inventory. The
Commission also clarified that the annual verifications due in 2024 and 2025 only need
to include the relevant information for new facilities subject to new facility intensity
requirements in 2023 and 2024.

The Commission created a new requirement that where an intensity operator does not
meet the required intensity standard, the intensity operator must either revise or
supplement the most recently submitted greenhouse gas intensity plan from Section
VIII.E. and submit the updated plan to the Division. The intensity operator must include
planning on how they will bring the intensity down to the required standard in the
following year and how they will make up the difference in emissions that should have
been reduced had they met the intensity standard in the previous year.

The Commission finally created new reporting requirements for those intensity
operators following operator-specific programs to attain a measurement-informed
inventory. The intensity operators following operator-specific programs will be required
to submit their complete measurement strategy and an evaluation of the implementation
of the strategy by June 30 of the year following the calendar year in which the
measurement strategy was implemented. Further, intensity operators will be required to
submit the reports from the certified third-party auditor as well as a summary of any
changes the intensity operator made to ONGAEIR as a result of the audit.

GHG Roadmap Progress




                                                                                           694
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission intends for the Division to publish the methodology the Division will
use to evaluate total greenhouse gas emissions relative to the applicable baseline and
progress towards statewide greenhouse gas emission reduction goals for oil and gas
emissions. This methodology must include statewide, regional, or local measurement
and quantification of methane emissions. The Commission intends for the Division to
engage with stakeholders prior to publishing this methodology.

Evaluation of Rule Implementation

The Commission recognizes that, in future years, after the state has had time to assess
the implementation of the verification program it may be appropriate to revise the
regulatory requirements of Regulation 7, Part B, Sections V, VIII.F., and VIII.G. Along
with other elements the Division typically reviews during rule implementation, beginning
in 2025, the Division should review the timing of reporting and auditing requirements to
ensure that the learning cycle built into the rule is sufficiently informing the program. If
the Division’s ongoing evaluation indicates that a rulemaking is warranted to ensure that
the verification program sufficiently informs compliance with the intensity standards, the
Division should return to the Commission with a revised rule proposal for consideration
at that time. The Commission expects that, leading up to 2025 and beyond, the Division
will continue to evaluate and improve the state’s data management and processing
systems.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the
Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)    Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
       on those requirements;




                                                                                          695
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado’s concern and situation was considered in the
        federal process that established the federal requirements;

        There are federal requirements that seek to reduce greenhouse gas from oil and
        gas operations, though those requirements are separate and distinct from the
        requirements set forth in Part B, Sections II, V, and VIII, which were addressed in
        this rulemaking. The Commission’s revisions address Colorado-specific
        requirements and needs, like those of HB 19-1261 and HB 21-1266, which were
        not considered in any federal process.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;

        The proposed upstream programs will ensure that the regulated community can
        achieve required GHG emissions reductions in cost-effective ways by giving
        covered entities options to reduce emissions and develop a measurement-
        informed inventory to ensure compliance with state targets.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;

        This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
        no timing issue exists.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;




                                                                                         696
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        The regulatory provisions allow a reasonable amount of time for affected entities
        to comply with the new revisions. As such, affected businesses or industrial
        sectors are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and
        future growth.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The regulatory provisions offer flexibility to operators in their choice of
        compliance mechanisms, thus maintaining reasonable equity.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
        enacted;

        These revisions are designed with the maximum flexibility for the regulated
        community. Under HB 21-1266, if the state is not on track to achieve the
        emission reduction goals, the Commission must adopt further regulations to
        achieve those goals. Future efforts are likely to be not as cost-effective as the
        flexible programs in these revisions.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;

        Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are
        necessary to effectively quantify and measure Colorado’s progress toward
        statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public health, safety, and welfare
        goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. Under these requirements, owners and
        operators of these sources will be required to compile and report directly to the
        Division information collected by or available to them for business or other
        regulatory purposes. While this may overlap with some other federal reporting
        requirements, it is expected there will be reporting beyond what is required
        federally.




                                                                                            697
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the requirements of
        these revisions.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        These revisions are part of a regulatory program that will cost-effectively reduce
        statewide GHG emissions to meet the legislative directive of the State Air Act, as
        revised by SB 19-181, HB 19-1261, and HB 21-1266. As noted, the General
        Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy
        and directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across the many sectors of
        our economy. Colorado has established specific GHG reduction goals within its
        statutes. Programs established in this rulemaking action provide mechanisms for
        GHG reductions to occur cost-effectively across a specific, high-emitting sector of
        the state’s economy.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The new regulatory requirements and amendments are needed to verify the
        statutorily mandated emission reductions. As noted, the State Air Act requires the
        Commission to implement GHG emission reduction strategies in order to secure
        reductions of pollution consistent with the statewide GHG emission reduction
        goals. Currently emissions projections over the next decade demonstrate that a
        no-action alternative would fall short of achieving Colorado’s reduction goals.
        Additionally, no alternative combination of sector-specific regulations has been
        identified that is sufficient to meet the state’s GHG emissions reductions goals.

Findings of Fact




                                                                                          698
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

CC.     December 15, 2023 (Revisions to Part A, Sections I.A.1.c. and II.C. and Part
B, Sections I.F.3.c., I.J.1.l., I.L.7., II.E.9., and VI.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

On October 7, 2022, EPA reclassified the Denver Metro/North Front Range (DM/NFR) to
severe for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard of 75 parts per
billion (ppb) (2008 NAAQS), after 2019-2021 ozone data failed to show attainment. See
86 Fed. Reg. 60926. Separately, EPA has also designated the DM/NFR as marginal
nonattainment for the 2015 ozone NAAQS of 70 ppb, effective August 3, 2018 (83 Fed.
Reg. 25776 (June 4, 2018)).


                                                                                           699
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

On November 30, 2021, EPA expanded the boundary of the 2015 ozone nonattainment
area to include all of Weld County, effective December 30, 2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 67864).
On October 7, 2022, EPA reclassified the DM/NFR and northern Weld County to
moderate, after 2019-2021 ozone data failed to show attainment. See 86 Fed. Reg.
60897.

Further, in a March 2023 letter Governor Jared Polis directed the Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) and the Energy and Carbon Management
Commission (ECMC) (fka COGCC) to adopt rules to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx)
emissions from upstream oil and gas operations by 30% in 2025 and 50% by 2050,
relative to a 2017 baseline.

To ensure progress towards attainment of the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS and
comply with the Governor’s directive, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation
Number 7 to reduce the impact from the use and operation of fossil fuel-fired equipment
at oil and gas well drilling and completion operations in the nonattainment area between
May 1 and September 30 starting in 2024. Specifically, operations occurring in
cumulatively impacted communities must be completed using grid power or non-fossil
fueled fired equipment and/or established practices. Operations not occurring in
cumulatively impacted communities must comply with NOx intensity targets and/or
established practices. While not required by the rule, the Commission encourages
operators to electrify equipment or schedule operations outside the May through
September months, particularly in cumulatively impacted communities. The use and
operation restrictions adopted by the Commission will aid in progressing only towards
attainment of the ozone NAAQS but also towards achieving the Governor’s directive.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such
rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-
7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article
7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into the
atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and
provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants. Section 105(1)(a)(I)


                                                                                        700
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS.
Section 105(1)(b) directs the Commission to adopt emission control regulations in
conformity with § 25-7-109. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in
developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of
regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also
authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the
entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6)
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a) directs the
Commission to adopt emission control requirements that require the use of effective
practical air pollution controls for (I) each significant source or category of significant
sources of air pollutants and (II) each type of facility, process, or activity which products
or might product significant emissions of air pollutants. Section defines emission control
regulation to mean a regulation that is applicable to a specified type of facility, process,
or activity for the purpose of controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted
and a regulation that adopts any design, equipment, work practice, or operational
standard. § 25-7-109(2) allows emission control regulations pertaining to, among other
pollutants, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Oil and gas pre-production operations

The Commission adopted rules to reduce the impact of the use and operation of fossil
fuel-fired equipment at oil and gas drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
refracturing operations. As adopted, the regulations on the use and operation of fossil
fuel-fired equipment will have a positive impact on ensuring compliance with the
Governor’s directive to secure a 30% reduction in upstream oil and gas NOx emissions
by 2025, advance environmental justice in Colorado, and move the area towards
attainment with federal ozone standards. The Commission adopted these revisions


                                                                                              701
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

recognizing they are one step in continuing to reduce emissions from the upstream oil
and gas sector and directs the Division to continue efforts to collaborate with the ECMC
in establishing a NOx reduction steering committee to continue the work of identifying
innovative, cost effective, and efficient means of reducing NOx emissions to meet the
Governor’s directive of achieving a 50% reduction in NOx emissions from the upstream
oil and gas sector by 2030. The NOx reduction steering committee may, if appropriate,
evaluate the 2026 NOx intensity target and use practices. In achieving NOx reduction
targets, the commission urges the steering committee to consider methods of providing
protections for all categories of disproportionately impacted communities, and
requirements for or methods of encouraging electrification of pre-production engines
and stationary engines, including engines under 100 horsepower.

In furtherance of environmental justice and equity (see e.g., HB 21-1266 “…state policy
can and should improve public health and the environment and improve the overall well-
being of all communities”), the Commission adopted revisions to implement in-use
restrictions on oil and gas operators that will result in reduction of NOx and other
emissions when drilling and hydraulic fracturing in a cumulatively impacted community.
The Commission also adopted provisions requiring operators to meet an upstream NOx
intensity for drilling, hydraulic fracturing, hydraulic refracturing, and production
operations. Under these requirements, operators will have flexibility to select
appropriate and effective equipment and operational methods. As adopted, these
revisions offer multiple, cost-effective pathways to compliance that expand the adoption
of innovative technology and practices to reduce emissions from drilling, completion,
and production operations. Options include the adoption of electric equipment, which
the Commission encourages wherever technically and economically practicable, the use
of high performing and low emitting equipment, and the use of supplemental
technologies and practices such as battery assists and smart engine systems to further
reduce emissions. These in-use practice options apply to engines or turbines use to drill
or hydraulically fracture or refracture a well, i.e., engines or turbines used to turn the drill
bit or power the hydraulic fracturing or refracturing pumps. The general maintenance
and operation practices apply to both these engines and turbines as well as other
associated equipment used during drilling or hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. The


                                                                                            702
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission urges the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s energy
liaison to recommend grid-powered and low-emission engines as best management
practices when consulting on proposed oil and gas development plans in the
nonattainment area located within all categories of disproportionately impacted
communities.

The Commission expects the Division to evaluate compliance with the NOx intensity
considering the projected production rate used to determine the NOx intensity but also
the actual production rate for the year of compliance. The Commission adopted
reporting requirements for operators to submit an interim report of NOx emissions and
production for the Division to use to evaluate progress toward the NOx intensity targets,
i.e., five months of NOx emissions from May through September over 5/12ths of twelve
months of production. The use of interim values recognizes that operators will complete
their annual reporting by every June, following any necessary operator quality
assurance processes, which would delay the determination of progress. Should the
upstream operators not achieve the adopted NOx intensity, after also considering the
actual production rate, the Commission directs the Division to evaluate what additional
actions may need to be taken to achieve reductions in pre-production and/or production
emissions to ensure achievement of the applicable upstream NOx reduction target.
Potential actions may include reevaluation of the sector intensity targets, establishment
of additional reduction measures, or corrective action from individual operators.

The Commission encourages the Division to prioritize the timely creation of the interim
reporting mechanisms (described in VI.E.4). The Commission directs the Division to
make available usable information obtained from the November 30 interim report on the
Division's website, in a format that provides totals for the nonattainment area, for review
by the NOx Reduction Steering Committee and other state agencies and interested
parties no later than February 1st.

The Commission intends for the Division to approve “other technologies and operational
optimization methods” that align with the achievement of the state’s emissions reduction
and environmental justice goals but recognizes that cases may exist where, due to the
emerging nature of technologies to be used, technologies may not perform as expected



                                                                                       703
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

or performance is prevented or delayed by an event(s) arising from causes which are
not reasonably foreseeable, are beyond the owner or operator’s control, and cannot be
overcome by due diligence (e.g., a force majeure). In such cases where due diligence
was completed yet expected performance is not achieved, the Commission anticipates
the Division will engage with the owner or operator to identify appropriate next steps.
The Commission further intends for the Division to continue collaboration with ECMC
when ‘identifying and approving other technologies and operational optimization
methods’.

Recognizing the importance of expanding the technical and economic feasibility of
electrification to meeting the State’s air quality, greenhouse gas, and environmental
justice goals, the Commission directs the Division, in complimentary and parallel effort
to the NOx reduction steering committee, to continue collaborating with other state
agencies, utility providers, and impacted parties in identifying steps forward to expand
adoption of electrification. The Commission requests the Division brief the Commission
in 2025 on the status and effectiveness of the NOx Intensity Program and discuss, if
needed, any recommendations for changes.

Clean-up

The Commission clarified reporting requirements in Part B, Section I.L.7. to identify the
additional facility category subject to this reporting requirement, for which the
Commission adopted as an expansion to applicability in December 2022. This proposed
revision does not expand any existing requirements but merely clarifies the reporting
provisions. The Commission also adopted revisions to Part B, Section II.E.9.b. to reflect
that the provisions referenced in Section II.E.4.d. have been superseded by the
inspection frequencies in Table 5 and, therefore, are no longer necessary to be
specifically identified in this reporting requirement as they will be identified in reporting
due to the inspection frequencies and source identification in Table 5.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference




                                                                                           704
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met by
including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 7.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the severe ozone nonattainment
area requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted
by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone NAAQS and requires
Colorado to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission
adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to further achieve reductions of ozone
precursor emissions. These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to
state flexibility in determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions.
However, where the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS, the Commission determines

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address state only requirements for drilling
        and completion operations in the oil and gas sector. NSPS OOOO, NSPS
        OOOOa, NSPS IIII, NSPS JJJJ, and MACT ZZZZ may also apply to the above
        listed operations and equipment. However, the revisions to Regulation Number 7
        apply on a broader basis.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        The proposed state only requirements are technology- and performance- based
        that allow for maximum flexibility for demonstrating compliance.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to
        develop SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone
        NAAQS was not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado.
        Similarly, EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and


                                                                                          705
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s obligation to attain the ozone NAAQS. Instead,
        Colorado can adopt applicable provisions to reduce emissions of ozone
        precursors, as the Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 ozone NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower
        2015 ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the
        regulated community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower
        NAAQS insofar as efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted by the
        Commission may prevent or reduce the need to implement additional, more
        burdensome requirements to meet the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     The proposed revisions are state-only and are not impacted by federal timelines.
        However, the implementation of the requirements for drilling, pre-production, and
        production operations in 2024 and beyond will aid in the attainment of the 2008
        ozone NAAQS by the federally established 2026 attainment date.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish a flexible framework for
        compliance and allow for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the ozone NAAQS, EPA will reclassify the ozone
        control area and northern Weld County to a more stringent nonattainment area.
        This outcome would result in more stringent federal requirements for the region
        and may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include monitoring,
        recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where possible, to
        similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable.



                                                                                       706
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help to attain
the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in failure to attain
the ozone NAAQS. As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the
Commission has taken into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-
109(1)(b).

To the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of VOCs and NOx emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

DD.     December 20, 2024 (Revisions to Part A, Section I.A. and Part B, Sections
III.C.4., V.C, and VII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,




                                                                                          707
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In 2021, the Commission adopted requirements for upstream and midstream segment
oil and gas operations, to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from those
operations to achieve the GHG reduction requirements of House Bill 21-1266 (HB 21-
1266). Specifically for the midstream segment, the Commission adopted requirements
for owners or operators to submit fuel combustion equipment company emission
reduction plans to a midstream steering committee by July 31, 2022; for the midstream
steering committee to develop recommendations for a midstream segment emission
reduction plan (SERP) and submit the recommendations to the Division by March 31,
2024; and for the Division to submit a regulatory proposal to the Commission by August
31, 2024, and request a rulemaking hearing for no later than December 31, 2024. The
process and work of the midstream steering committee was detailed in the Midstream
Segment Emission Reduction Plan for Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions from
Colorado Oil and Natural Gas Midstream Segment Fuel Combustion Equipment
recommendations presented by the Midstream Steering Committee to the Colorado Air
Pollution Control Division on March 31, 2024. The Commission has now adopted a
SERP that will achieve a 20% reduction in CO2e from the 2015 baseline, as required by
§ 25-7-140(2)(a)(II).

The Commission also adopted revisions in response to EPA actions on Colorado’s state
implementation plan (SIP) submissions. Specifically, a disapproval of contingency
measures for the serious SIP under the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standard (NAAQS), see 88 Fed. Reg. 76676 (Nov. 7, 2023).

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of Article 7. The Act provides the Commission broad authority to regulate


                                                                                     708
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

air pollutants, including GHG and its constituent gasses (particularly carbon dioxide,
methane, and nitrous oxide). § 105(1)(a)(I) directs the Commission to adopt a state
implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS. § 25-7-106 provides the Commission
maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such
combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations
applicable to the entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution.
§§ 109(1)(a), (2), and (3), C.R.S., authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations
requiring effective practical air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of
sources and emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides and
hydrocarbons. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission to require owners and
operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information. § 25-7-
109(10) directs the Commission to adopt emission control regulations to minimize
emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, VOC, and NOx from oil and gas operations.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Midstream segment emission reduction program

In adopting the midstream segment emission reduction program in a new Section VII.F.,
the Commission repealed provisions no longer relevant to the program. Specifically, the
Commission repealed the definitions of 8-hour ozone control area in Section VII.A.1.,
Co-benefits in Section VII.A.2., Company emission reduction plan in Section VII.A.3.,
Midstream segment emission reduction plan in Section VII.A.8. (renumbered as Section
VII.A.14.), Midstream segment steering committee in Section VII.A.9. (renumbered as
Section VII.A.15.), and Northern Weld County in Section VII.A.12 (renumbered as
Section VII.A.19.). The Commission repealed Sections VII.C. through VII.E., which
concerned the creation of the midstream steering committee and initial information
collection; midstream steering committee duties, guidance, company ERPs, and




                                                                                          709
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

segment ERPs, and recordkeeping and reporting related to the requirements in
Sections VII.C. and VII.D.

The Commission also revised the definition of Disproportionately impacted community
in Section VII.A.4. (renumbered as Section VII.A.7.) to reflect the revised statutory
definition and citation. The revised definition, and as reflected in EnviroScreen Version
1, was used to update the facility locations in the company emission reduction plans
and as evaluated by the Midstream Steering Committee. The Commission did not, at
this time, adopt a location assessment requirement related to future versions of the
EnviroScreen mapping tool in recognition of the challenges and complexity of planning
for and implementing emission reduction measures at midstream segment operations.

Facilities were identified as being within a disproportionately impacted community in
2024, based on the definition at 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F), C.R.S. (2023) and as
reflected in Colorado EnviroScreen Version 1. The Commission recognizes that, over
time, census block groups may undergo changes in the factors that determine whether
they are classified as “disproportionately impacted” under the statutory definition and
thus may change classification after the date of this rulemaking. However, as noted
above, the Commission recognizes the need for midstream operators to have certainty
in understanding where they must achieve reductions due to the potentially long lead
times to implement some reduction projects prior to 2030. This setting of
disproportionately impacted classification does not revise any requirements a company
may have under Regulation Number 3 related to the permitting of a new or modified
facility or equipment, which may include evaluations under future versions of Colorado
EnviroScreen.

However, the Commission incorporated the use of EnviroScreen Version 2.0 for
purposes of the FRPA reductions and prioritization of reductions in disproportionately
impacted communities, discussed further below, in order to also include potential onsite
reductions in communities identified as disproportionately impacted communities in
Version 2.0. After extensive information gathering and conversations with stakeholders
over two-and-a-half years, the Division determined that the most appropriate method to
achieve the required greenhouse gas reductions includes a performance-based cap



                                                                                        710
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

approach set on a company-wide basis. This approach maximizes the chances for
success of the program, helps to preserve gas and electric grid reliability, reduces costs,
allows for technological innovations, allows for cost-sharing, and allows the midstream
operator to execute projects that best suit physical and operational constraints. Caps
are set on a company-wide basis, rather than by individual facilities, because there were
over 270 midstream facilities in 2021 with widely varying levels of reduction feasibility.
Setting caps on a company level allows the operator to incorporate their individual
circumstances and operations into their chosen strategy.

In evaluating segment emissions, the Division incorporated crankcase venting from
natural gas engines of over 130 horsepower into its historical GHG inventories including
the 2015 baseline year for the program. These emissions were not historically included
as EPA only published revisions to Part 98 of EPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas
Reporting program including new reporting requirements and calculation methods for,
among other things, crankcase venting on May 14, 2024 (89 Fed. Reg. 42062).
Crankcase venting occurs in all reciprocating engines when cylinder gases (containing
methane and other pollutants) escape around piston rings and into the crankcase,
where they must be vented to avoid an explosion hazard. In contrast, methane slip
occurs where methane passes through the engine’s combustion chamber and stack
uncombusted, and operators report methane slip in ONGAEIR as engine combustion
emissions. Therefore, using EPA’s calculation methodologies, the Division estimated the
increase in CO2e from crankcase venting in 2015 to be approximately 14,330 mt CO2e.
Engine crankcase venting emissions was also incorporated into the 2021 data used to
establish emissions caps and inform other elements of the program. In support of this,
the Commission adopted revisions to include crankcase venting from natural gas
engines of over 130 horsepower to the Regulation No. 7 Part B, Section V. requirements
for annual reporting through ONGAEIR, starting for reporting year 2025.

The Commission adopted two caps: one “segment cap” that pertains to all midstream
fuel combustion equipment in Colorado and one “company cap” that pertains to each
company’s midstream fuel combustion equipment. The sum of all company caps
achieves the segment’s 2030 target (i.e., 20% below the 2015 baseline). The company
cap is allocated to each company based on their 2021 emissions levels, the proportion


                                                                                         711
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

of their emissions that occur in disproportionately impacted community locations, and
recognition of electrification projects completed between January 1, 2016, and summer
2022. Recognizing that larger midstream operators (the top 3 emitted 68.6% of the
segment’s total in 2021, and the top 10 emitted 90.9% of the segment’s 2021 total) have
more facilities and MFCE and thus are more likely to have more feasible reduction
options available to them, the larger operators are allocated a relatively lower (i.e., more
stringent) company cap. All midstream operators are allocated a company cap, but
smaller operators (fewer than 25,000 mt CO2e emissions from MFCE in 2021) are
assigned a company cap equal to their 2021 (or if more representative, a more recent
year’s) emissions.

The company cap is initially set for each company in the 2024 rulemaking, but must be
adjusted if facility ownership is transferred. In their annual reporting, midstream
companies are required to identify facilities that were transferred in the previous
calendar year and the associated changes to the caps of the buying and selling parties.
The Division, in its annual summary report, will publish an updated list of company
emission caps, including changes due to asset transfers or company cessation of
operations. The Division may consider the reevaluation of company caps should
significant new information arise pertaining to global warming potentials, MFCE
calculation methods, etc., and any changes made will be in coordination with other
Division programs such as the GHG Inventory Unit. Such potential changes to company
caps will be proposed to the Commission for consideration. The Division will hold at
least one public engagement outreach meeting following the publication of the 2025
annual to inform interested persons and communities about the benefits and
expectations of midstream segment emissions reductions projects.

In fulfillment of the statutory requirement to prioritize CO2e reductions with co-benefits
in disproportionately impacted communities, and the program goal to ensure that a
minimum amount of CO2e reductions will occur on-site in locations in and near
populated areas and disproportionately impacted communities, the program includes
restrictions on access to the credit trading market for larger midstream companies that
operate in nine Front Range counties (defined as FRPA). These counties also constitute
Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area, with the exception of a portion of Larimer County.


                                                                                        712
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The FRPA counties are home to 68% of Colorado’s population, and are where the
majority (59.4%) of 2021 MFCE GHG emissions occurred. It is also understood that
electrification projects are likely to be more feasible and lower-cost in the FRPA versus
other regions in the state. Importantly, CO2e reductions from MFCE will typically be
accompanied by reductions in harmful air pollutants. Ensuring a minimum level of on-
site reductions at midstream operations in disproportionately impacted communities or
in the FRPA, before FRPA-restricted companies can purchase credits to meet their
company caps, ensures that reductions (and associated co-benefits) are more likely to
take place near more densely-populated areas, addresses some electrification
feasibility challenges, focuses on the largest companies with more options for
reductions, promotes NOx and VOC reductions within the ozone nonattainment area,
and limits the administrative burden to the Division as there are currently six FRPA-
restricted companies. The Commission expects midstream companies to prioritize
reductions at operations located in disproportionately impacted communities, where
possible. This expectation applies to all midstream companies and not just current
FRPA-restricted companies. These FRPA-company reduction obligations are also
initially set for each company in the 2024 rulemaking but may also be adjusted if facility
ownership is transferred. The regulation includes provisions for FRPA-restricted
companies to demonstrate technical and/or economic infeasibility of the required onsite
reductions. The Commission intends that midstream companies can transfer FRPA
reduction obligation in connection with an asset transfer, including achieved and not yet
achieved FRPA reduction obligation.

In general, this program does not restrict the modification, construction, and/or
relocation of MFCE, so long as company emissions caps are met, and other applicable
regulations are complied with. This means that, in order to achieve its emissions caps, a
company can add new MFCE sources but any increase in MFCE CO2e must be
balanced by reductions elsewhere in the company’s operations. Midstream companies
must calculate MFCE GHG emissions in accordance with Division-approved calculation
methodologies, and must be consistent with the calculation methodologies used for
calculating and reporting emissions for the ONGAEIR annual reporting.




                                                                                        713
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Concerning new entrants, the Commission recognizes the challenge of electrification
and that it is not the Commission's intent to discourage new entrants and is trying to
create pathways for compliance. The Commission’s intent is that new entrants be fully
electric as soon as possible, and for those companies with a zero cap, the Commission
anticipates the Division will work with those companies under available mechanisms in
this rule to recognize the challenges that the companies are facing. This rule does not
treat new entrants differently than existing company expansions.

The Commission also established a GHG credit system where a midstream company
achieving MFCE CO2e emissions at or below their company cap, beginning 2028 for
emissions reporting year 2027, would generate GHG credits equal to the difference
between the midstream company’ annual direct GHG emissions and the midstream
company’s overall cap. These credits could be used or sold to another regulated entity
in the market. The GHG credit system as developed for the midstream segment will
provide additional flexibilities for midstream companies, incentive early reductions, and
cause additional reductions to be achieved. In order for a midstream company to
generate credits for a particular vintage year, the company must report their annual
emissions to the Division by March of the reporting year. If a credit generating
midstream company does not report their annual emissions by the March deadline of
the reporting year in which they want to participate, the company will be unable to
generate credits for that vintage year. The Commission did not revise the reporting
deadlines in Section V. but expects the Division to make the annual reporting portal
available at a time sufficient for such early reporting.

The Commission directs the Division to evaluate the developing credit market, and by
December 2028, evaluate whether the market will be sufficient to support the needed
emissions reductions. Further, the Division should consider the interplay of the market
between midstream and GEMM operators. Should an adjustment need to be made to
the credit markets in either Regulation Number 7 or Number 27, the Commission directs
the Division to bring such a proposal to the Commission. The Commission also directs
the Division to include the midstream sector when it evaluates the use of the state-
managed fund, developed pursuant to Commission direction under the GEMM



                                                                                         714
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

rulemakings, to receive and allocate monies to finance projects to reduce GHG
emissions from the midstream segment.

Ozone state implementation plan contingency measures

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include contingency
measures for the Serious SIP under the 2008 Ozone NAAQS, in response to EPA’s
disapproval. See 88 Fed. Reg. 76676 (Nov. 7, 2023). Under CAA § 172(c)(9),
nonattainment area SIPs must provide for the implementation of specific measures,
termed contingency measures, if an area fails to attain the NAAQS or to demonstrate
RFP by the required deadline. The Commission had adopted contingency measure for
the Serious SIP in 2020 with anticipated future year emission reductions in VOC and
NOx from on-road mobile sources. However, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit issued a decision in January 2021 interpreting the CAA requirements
for contingency measures to require such measures be prospective and conditional, in
contrast to previous EPA interpretation and corresponding state implementation. See 88
Fed. Reg. at 54978 discussing Sierra Club v EPA. Therefore, EPA disapproved
Colorado’s Serious SIP contingency measures, finding the measures did not satisfy the
CAA requirements as interpreted by the DC Circuit. Therefore, the Commission now
included the pneumatic controller retrofit and replacement requirements applicable to
well production facilities in the ozone nonattainment area in the SIP as contingency
measures for the Serious SIP. These provisions required existing well production
facilities to replace or retrofit specified percentages of natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers with non-emitting pneumatic controllers by May 2022 and May 2023, thus
being implemented and achieving emissions reductions after the Serious attainment
date of July 2021. This provision regarding pneumatics sunsets no later than June 7,
2025, if EPA has taken action prior to that date that stops the running of the sanctions
clock regarding the November 2023 disapproval of contingency measures. Until June 7,
2025, the Commission directs that these revisions not be submitted by CDPHE to EPA
as a SIP revision. If EPA does not take this action by June 7, 2025, the revisions shall
not sunset and shall promptly be submitted to EPA as a contingency measure SIP
revision.



                                                                                          715
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-
103(12.5) are met by including specific information and making the regulations available
because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be
unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission includes, where necessary, reference dates to rules and reference
methods incorporated in Regulation Number 7.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the
Act: § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)   Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
      on those requirements;

      There are no federal regulations applicable to the situations covered by the
      provisions of Part B, Section VII. However, there are existing federal regulations
      that seek to identify and reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas industry,
      such as the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (40 CFR Part 98) and New
      Source Performance Standards (40 CFR Part 60) Subparts KKK, OOOO, and
      OOOOa. Part B, Section VII. does not conflict with any applicable current federal
      regulations. The EPA has published NSPS Subpart OOOOb and Emission
      Guideline Subpart OOOOc to address greenhouse gas emissions from oil and
      gas equipment, but EPA’s proposal does not address the particular situations
      addressed by the Commission’s revisions here.




                                                                                      716
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        The federal requirements addressing methane reductions from the oil and gas
        sector (though not applicable in this situation) as described are both
        performance-based and technology-based. Current federal requirements for
        methane reductions speak to achieving a control efficiency, with minimal
        flexibility. Some requirements also mandate the use of technology to detect
        methane emissions. However, EPA does provide some flexibility in the
        technology that can be used.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;

        There are federal requirements that seek to reduce greenhouse gas from oil and
        gas operations, though none that are addressed to the specific goals of Part B,
        Section VII. The Commission’s revisions address Colorado-specific requirements
        and needs, like those of HB 19-1261 and HB 21-1266, which were not
        considered in any federal process.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;

        The proposed midstream emission reduction program will ensure that the
        regulated community can achieve required GHG emissions reductions in cost-
        effective ways by giving covered entities options to reduce emissions to ensure
        compliance with state targets.




                                                                                         717
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;

        This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
        no timing issue exists.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The regulatory provisions allow a reasonable amount of time for affected entities
        to comply with the new revisions. As such, affected businesses or industrial
        sectors are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and
        future growth. The rules adopted by the Commission establish a midstream
        segment emission reduction program, providing a technically feasible and
        economically reasonable means of reducing emissions in this segment.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        With respect to any sources operating within the midstream segment, the rule
        establishes reasonable equity because it takes into account the size of the
        operator, the percentage of ownership each operator claims, and the location of
        the facility. This ensures equity across operators based on location and utility
        provider.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
        enacted;

        The Commission believes that the cost of inaction would be greater to industry
        and the public than the costs associated with the revisions to Part B, Section VII.
        Not only with respect to the social cost of climate change, but also more direct
        costs. These revisions are designed with the maximum flexibility for the regulated
        community. Under HB 21-1266, if the state is not on track to achieve the
        emission reduction goals, the Commission must adopt further regulations to
        achieve those goals. Future efforts are likely to be not as cost-effective as the
        flexible program in these revisions.



                                                                                            718
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(IX)   Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
       requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
       why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
       monitoring requirements;

       Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are
       necessary to effectively quantify and measure Colorado’s progress toward
       statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public health, safety, and welfare
       goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S.

       Many of the reporting requirements associated with these programs are in
       existing Commission regulations, in Regulation Number 7, Part B. However,
       these revisions do require some additional reporting. Under these requirements,
       owners and operators of these sources will be required to compile and report
       directly to the Division information collected by or available to them for business
       or other regulatory purposes. While this may overlap with some other federal
       reporting requirements, it is expected there will be reporting beyond what is
       required federally.

(X)    Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
       requirement;

       Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the requirements of
       these revisions.

(XI)   Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
       address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
       gain;

       These revisions will cost-effectively reduce statewide GHG emissions to meet the
       legislative directive of the State Air Act, as revised by SB 19-181, HB 19-1261,
       and HB 21-1266. As noted, the General Assembly has acknowledged that
       climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and directed that GHG emissions
       should be reduced across the many sectors of our economy. Colorado has
       established specific GHG reduction goals within its statutes. The program



                                                                                         719
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        established in this rulemaking action provides mechanisms for GHG reductions
        to occur cost-effectively across a specific, high-emitting sector of the state’s
        economy.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The new regulatory requirements and amendments are needed to achieve the
        statutorily mandated emission reductions. As noted, the State Air Act requires the
        Commission to implement GHG emission reduction strategies in order to secure
        reductions of pollution consistent with the statewide GHG emission reduction
        goals. Currently, emissions projections over the next decade demonstrate that a
        no-action alternative would fall short of achieving Colorado’s reduction goals.
        Additionally, no alternative combination of midstream segment-specific
        regulations has been identified that is sufficient to meet the state’s GHG
        emissions reductions goals.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
by interested parties.

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas, VOC, and NOx emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction
in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.




                                                                                           720
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation
in the most cost-effective manner.

EE.     February 19-21, 2025 (Revisions to Part B)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In March 2024, EPA finalized 40 C.F.R. Part 60, Subpart OOOOc, Emission Guidelines
for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Existing Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities (EG
OOOOc), which triggered the requirement for states to develop plans that include
standards of performance for all designated facilities addressed in EG OOOOc. EG
OOOOc includes presumptive standards for storage vessels, process controllers (aka
pneumatic controllers), pumps (aka pneumatic pumps), fugitive emissions, gas well
liquids unloading, well associated gas, centrifugal compressors, and reciprocating
compressors. Regulation Number 7 includes requirements for all of these designated
facilities, some of which differ from the presumptive standards in EG OOOOc.
Therefore, the Commission adopted revisions to the requirements for pneumatic
controllers and pneumatic pumps, to align more closely with the presumptive standards
in EG OOOOc. Revisions related to the other designated facilities will be considered in
future rulemakings, before March 9, 2026.

In December 2021, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7 and
Regulation Number 22 (the requirements in Regulation Number 22 have since been
moved to Regulation Number 7) to address several state goals, including the directives
in House Bill 21-1266 (Environmental Justice Disproportionate Impacted Community). In
House Bill 21-1266 the General Assembly determined that “state action to correct
environmental injustice is imperative, and state policy can and should improve public
health and the environment and improve the overall well-being of all communities…
[and] efforts to right past wrongs and move toward environmental justice must focus on


                                                                                        721
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

disproportionately impacted communities and the voices of their residents.” Therefore,
the Commission adopted, among other things, more stringent requirements for sources
located in or near disproportionately impacted communities, referencing the 2021
version of 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S., which included the previous definition of
“disproportionately impacted community”. However, in House Bill 23-1233 (Electric
Vehicle Charging and Parking Requirements), signed into law May 23, 2023, the
Colorado General Assembly revised the definition of “disproportionately impacted
community” in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. The Commission revised the definition of
“disproportionately impacted community” to align with the revised statutory definition.

In September 2020, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7 to
address the directives in SB 19-181 (concerning additional public welfare protections
regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations) to consider adopting continuous
monitors at oil and gas operations. In 2023, the Energy and Carbon Management
Commission (ECMC) funded an evaluation of the monitoring program and submitted
monitoring plans and reports, published in August 2024. The report recommended
potential standardizations to achieve consistent monitoring programs and data. In
response, the Commission adopted revisions to standardize monitoring equipment
calibration and testing procedures, response thresholds, response actions, monitoring
sampling and data reporting intervals, and monitoring plan and reporting formats for air
quality monitoring at pre-production and early-production oil and gas operations.

Further, the Commissions adopted revisions to address typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors found throughout the regulation.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of Article 7. The Act broadly defines “air pollutant” to include essentially
any gas emitted into the atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and
other hydrocarbons) and provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air
pollutants. See § 25-7-103(1.5). § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), directs the Commission to adopt a


                                                                                         722
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS. Section 25-7-105(1)(b), directs
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations in conformity with § 25-7-109. §
25-7-106, provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating any such combination of regulations as may be
necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106(1)(c), also authorizes the
Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state,
specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6), further
authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution source
to monitor, record, and report information. § 25-7-109(1)(a), directs the Commission to
adopt emission control requirements that require the use of effective practical air
pollution controls for: (1) each significant source or category of significant sources of air
pollutants; and (2) each type of facility, process, or activity which products or might
product significant emissions of air pollutants. § 25-7-103, defines “emission control
regulation” to mean a regulation that is applicable to a specified type of facility, process,
or activity for the purpose of controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted
and a regulation that adopts any design, equipment, work practice, or operational
standard. § 25-7-109(2), allows emission control regulations pertaining to, among other
pollutants, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.

In addition, § 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(A), asserts that all statewide agencies shall use the
definition of disproportionately impacted community as set forth in the statute. § 24-4-
109(2)(a)(I)(B), provides that a statewide agency may “prioritize or target” certain
subsets of communities that meet the definition of disproportionately impacted
community if the prioritization is warranted and reasonably tailored to the statewide
action being taken. If the statewide agency making the determination to prioritize or
target retains rulemaking authority, the agency must make this determination by rule.
See § 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B). § 24-4-109(2)(b)(IV), defines “statewide agency” to include
any commission, thus, the Commission is authorized to prioritize or target certain
subsets of the definition of disproportionately impacted community so long as that
prioritization is warranted and reasonably tailored to the Commission’s action.

Purpose



                                                                                          723
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Disproportionately impacted community definition

In December 2021, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7 and
Regulation Number 22, since moved to Regulation Number 7, to address several state
goals, including the directives in Senate Bill 19-181 (Concerning additional public
welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations), House Bill 19-1261
(Climate Action Plan To Reduce Pollution), and House Bill 21-1266 (Environmental
Justice Disproportionate Impacted Community). The Commission adopted, among other
things, more stringent requirements for sources located in disproportionately impacted
communities.

However, in House Bill 23-1233 (Electric Vehicle Charging and Parking Requirements),
the General Assembly revised the definition of disproportionately impacted communities
and directed statewide agencies to apply the most recent version of the Colorado
EnviroScreen tool available at the time the agency determines whether a community is
a disproportionately impacted community. Therefore, the Commission adopted in this
rulemaking revisions to the definitions in Regulation Number 7 to align with the more
recent statutory definition. The Commission also clarified implementation of
requirements as related to any changes resulting from the revised definition.

The Commission incorporated the statutory definition for “disproportionately impacted
community” as in 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. (2023). Additionally, the
Commission revised in the definition the data tool that must be used to identify
disproportionately impacted communities. Previously, the Commission directed the use
of Colorado EnviroScreen as the tool used to identify disproportionately impacted
communities. Now, the Commission directs the use of the Colorado Disproportionately
Impacted Community Map (November 2024) to identify disproportionately impacted
communities. The areas in Colorado that meet criteria in the definition are displayed on
the Colorado Disproportionately Impacted Community Map. For uses of this regulation,
users must select the statutory criteria from 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F), C.R.S.


                                                                                          724
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(2023). Those criteria are labeled as: “Mobile home communities”, “Low-income
population above 40%”, “People of color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-
burdened population above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and
“Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”. In contrast to this Map, Colorado
EnviroScreen does not itself define disproportionately impacted communities, except, as
directed by HB 23-1233. This Map also shows areas with a Colorado EnviroScreen
score above the 80th percentile, which should presumptively be considered to meet the
cumulative impacts prong of the statutory definition. While updating the mapping tools,
CDPHE also updated the census data used for the Colorado Disproportionately
Impacted Community Map from the American community survey (5 year) 2015-2019
dataset to the American community survey (5 year) 2018-2022 dataset. CDPHE is
committed to continuous improvement of these mapping tools and will continue to
update the Colorado Disproportionately Impacted Community Map to reflect the most
recent data and meet the needs of the people and organizations it is intended to benefit.
Additionally, along with the definition update, the Commission adopted requirements for
owners or operators to assess the location of their facilities in relation to a
disproportionately impacted community using the most recent version of the Colorado
Disproportionately Impacted Community Map.

House Bill 23-1233 also authorized agencies to prioritize or target certain criteria of the
definition of disproportionately impacted community or certain subsets of communities
that meet the definition in a rulemaking process (see § 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B)), which the
Commission did in the February 2025 Regulation Number 7 rulemaking. Specifically, the
Commission chose to prioritize applying the rule in a subset of communities that met the
definition of disproportionately impacted community based on demographic factors and
cumulative impacts. It chose not to prioritize or target regulatory requirements in other
categories of places that met the definition under the federal Justice 40 definition, Tribal
lands, and historically marginalized communities. Specifically, the federal Justice40
definition is intended for use in federal funding efforts, not state regulatory efforts.
Further, the Commission lacks jurisdiction to regulate sources of pollution on Tribal
lands. Finally, the historically marginalized community component of the definition is an




                                                                                           725
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

“opt-in” system, and no communities opted in to that definition during the Regulation
Number 7 rulemaking.

EG OOOOc

In March 2024, EPA finalized EG OOOOc, which triggered the requirement for states to
develop plans that include standards of performance for all designated facilities
addressed in EG OOOOc. With these revisions, the Commission adopted additional
requirements for pneumatic controllers and pneumatic pumps to align more closely with
the presumptive standards in EG OOOOc.

EG OOOOc - pneumatic devices

Colorado has required owners or operators to reduce emissions from pneumatic
controllers for decades, starting with low-bleed standards for continuous-bleed
pneumatic controllers, later requiring periodic inspections of all natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers for proper operation, adopting non-emitting pneumatic controller
standards for new facilities and natural gas processing plants, and finally adopting a
retrofit or replacement program for pneumatic controllers at existing well production
facilities and natural gas compressor stations, requiring compliance by May 1, 2023.
However, the presumptive standard in EPA’s EG OOOOc is for all natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers (EPA redefined as process controllers), except such pneumatic
controllers that are emergency safety devices, to comply with a zero methane emissions
to atmosphere standard, achieved by using a pneumatic controller not powered by
natural gas, by capturing emissions from the natural gas-driven pneumatic controller
and routing the emissions to a process, or by using self-contained natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers. Therefore, the Commission expanded the non-emitting
pneumatic controller requirements to achieve emissions reductions from facilities that
have not yet replaced or retrofit natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers as well as
natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers operating for safety or process purposes that
are not also emergency safety devices to align with EG OOOOc.

The new provisions require applicable oil and gas operators to eliminate emissions from
pneumatic controllers in accordance with a phased-in compliance schedule. Because of
the large number of controllers located in Colorado that must be addressed, the


                                                                                         726
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

schedule reflects supply chain concerns and other resource needs while still achieving
full compliance by EPA’s deadline of March 9, 2029. However, because of the large
cumulative amount of emissions produced by pneumatic controllers at oil and gas
operations and the need for emission reductions of ozone precursors in the ozone
nonattainment area, the Commission adopted a faster compliance phase-in for those
facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or northern Weld County. To comply
with the new pneumatic controller requirements, owners or operators of applicable
facilities have options including, but not limited to, retrofitting existing natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers to route to a process or be self-contained, replacing natural gas-
driven pneumatic controllers with non-natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers,
replacing pneumatic controllers with non-pneumatic controllers, or shutting down
facilities. Section III.C.5.b.(ii) clarifies that for each owner or operator, compliance is
demonstrated separately for facilities located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or
northern Weld County and facilities located in the rest of the state.



The Commission adopted three new sections of reporting requirements for the
pneumatic controller provisions: a one-time initial report (Section III.C.5.b.(iii)), interim
annual compliance reports (Section III.C.5.b.(iv)), and ongoing annual compliance
reports (Section III.C.5.c.(vi)). For the initial report in Section III.C.5.b.(iii) and for each of
the interim annual compliance reports in Section III.C.5.b.(iv), owners or operators are
required to provide “total facility counts” that identify the facilities subject to Section
III.C.5.b and where they are located. The interim annual compliance reporting
requirement in Section III.C.5.b.(iv) ceases in 2027 for facilities subject to Section
III.C.5.b.(ii)(A) and 2029 for facilities subject to Section III.C.5.b.(ii)(B), after which point
all facilities must be in compliance with Section III.C.5.b. For facilities that did not
comply with Part B, Section III.C.5.b. as of May 1, 2023, the ongoing annual compliance
reports in Section III.C.5.c.(vi) apply to facilities beginning after they are counted
towards compliance with Section III.C.5.b. Reporting from that point on will reflect only
facilities with natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers that are self-contained or from
which emissions are routed to a process through a closed vent system and will include
applicable compliance information such as equipment inspection information, deviations


                                                                                              727
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

from regulatory requirements, closed vent system bypass device information, and
changes in methods of compliance. For facilities that use natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers that comply with Section III.C.5.b. as of May 1, 2023, the requirements for
the ongoing use of natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers (i.e., self-contained or
routed to process) in Section III.C.5.c. apply starting May 1, 2027. The Commission
clarifies that while owners or operators must demonstrate compliance with Section
III.C.5.b. separately for their facilities located within and outside the 8-hour Ozone
Control Area or Northern Weld County, owners or operators need only submit one report
for all facilities in both areas. In the reports, owners or operators will indicate in which
area their facilities are located.

Each owner or operator will produce total facility counts that identify the number of
facilities subject to Section III.C.5.b., in order to measure compliance with the required
compliance percentages in each year. For the initial report in Section III.C.5.b.(iii), the
total facility count equals all of the owner’s or operator’s facilities that used natural gas-
driven pneumatic controllers that did not comply with Section III.C.5.b.(i) as of May 1,
2023, which is the final compliance date of the pneumatic controller requirements in
Section III.C.4. Section III.C.5. gives credit to owners or operators who retrofitted or
converted their facilities to eliminate emissions from natural gas-driven pneumatic
controllers after May 1, 2023. For purposes of compliance with Sections III.C.5.b.(ii)(A)
and III.C.5.b.(ii)(B), as demonstrated in the compliance demonstrations in Section
III.C.5.b.(iv)(A)(3), relevant owners or operators may include these facilities in their total
facility count and count them in the compliance demonstrations. The Commission
clarifies that owners or operators would only account for facilities owned or operated as
of December 1, 2025, the date the initial report is due. This ensures owners or
operators are not accounting for facilities that were owned or operated as of May 1,
2023, but have since been divested; and are accounting for facilities that were not
owned or operated as of May 1, 2023, but have since been acquired. The initial total
facility count serves as the initial baseline for the number of facilities that an owner or
operator will need to make comply to meet the compliance percentages in each year.
The total facility count will be revised each year to account for asset transfers that affect
an owner’s or operators’ total facility count.


                                                                                           728
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

In each annual compliance report pursuant to Section III.C.5.b.(iv), an owner or operator
will demonstrate compliance with the applicable compliance percentage by dividing the
number of the owner’s or operator’s facilities made to comply with Section III.C.5.b.(i)
after May 1, 2023, (numerator) by the owner’s or operator’s revised total facility count
(denominator). How an asset transfer affects an owner’s or operator’s compliance
demonstration depends on whether a compliant or non-compliant facility was acquired
or divested within the previous compliance year and how many facilities are already
compliant. If a non-compliant facility is acquired or divested, the owner’s or operator’s
total facility count increases or decreases accordingly and the number of compliant
facilities does not change. If a compliant facility is acquired or divested, the owner’s or
operator’s total facility count increases or decreases accordingly and the number of
compliant facilities increases or decreases accordingly. Owners or operators who
transfer ownership or operation of a facility to another owner and/or operator are
required to revise their total facility counts under Section III.C.5.c.(iv). Only the owner or
operator of a facility is entitled to count that facility for compliance purposes. An owner
or operator who transfers a compliant facility will no longer be entitled to count the
transferred facility towards a compliance percentage at the next deadline in Section
III.C.5., Tables 3 or 4. The Commission clarifies that the transfer of facilities (which
would impact both the seller and buyer’s total facility count and may affect the count of
compliant facilities) does not result in noncompliance with prior deadlines for
compliance percentage requirements in Tables 3 or 4, as demonstrated by the
compliance report for the applicable year. Compliance demonstrations with the required
compliance percentages are assessed in each year’s respective compliance report.

For purposes of Section III.C.5. only, in determining total facility counts and
demonstrating compliance with the required compliance percentages in each year, an
owner or operator may elect to combine facilities with the facilities of other owners or
operators that are owned or operated by the same parent company. If facilities are
being combined under a parent company, the applicable parent company must fulfill the
reporting and compliance demonstration requirements for all facilities being accounted
for.




                                                                                           729
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

To comply with Section III.C.5.b., owners or operators have the option of shutting down
facilities. The Commission notes that owners or operators shut facilities down for a
variety of reasons, which may not include for purposes of complying with Section
III.C.5.b. In the interim annual compliance reports, an owner or operator does not need
to report a shutdown facility as compliant with Section III.C.5.b. if the purpose of the
shutdown was not for compliance with Section III.C.5.b. A facility becomes subject to the
requirements of Section III.C.5.c., the additional requirements for the ongoing use of
self-contained natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers and natural gas-driven
pneumatic controllers for which emissions are routed to a process, upon identifying the
facility for compliance with Section III.C.5.b.

The Commission recognizes that pneumatic controllers at some facilities may have
been retrofitted to be self-contained or to have emissions routed to a process through a
closed vent system for compliance with Section III.C.4., and that these facilities may just
require a design analysis to ensure the systems comply with Section III.C.5. In order to
address such facilities, which should not require additional major retrofits, the
Commission adopted Section III.C.5.b.(v), which effectively removes these facilities from
being included in the total facility counts in Sections III.C.5.b.(iii) and III.C.5.b.(iv), and
ensures that they are appropriately compliant by May 1, 2027.

To achieve greater emission reductions sooner from pneumatic controllers at facilities
located outside the 8-hour Ozone Control Area or Northern Weld County, the
Commission adopted Section III.C.5.b.(vi), which prioritizes compliance for well
production facilities with the highest production first. Owners or operators of well
production facilities are required to ensure compliance at the highest 50% of well
production facilities based on that list by the May 1, 2027, compliance deadline, based
on total barrels of hydrocarbon liquids and water produced in calendar year 2023.
These facilities count towards the total facility counts and compliance demonstrations,
so owners and operators must ensure that by May 1, 2027, the highest 50% of well
production facilities plus additional facilities as necessary add up to 50% of an owner or
operator’s total facility count.




                                                                                             730
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Similar to pneumatic controllers, Colorado has required owners or operators of natural
gas-driven diaphragm pneumatic pumps located in the ozone nonattainment area to
comply with an emissions rate of zero if located at a natural gas processing plant and a
95% control requirement if located at a well production facility. However, EPA’s EG
OOOOc requires natural gas-driven diaphragm and piston pumps located at well sites,
compressor stations, and natural gas processing plants to comply with a zero methane
emissions to atmosphere standard. Therefore, the Commission expanded pneumatic
pump requirements statewide, to compressor stations, and to piston pumps to align with
EG OOOOc. The new provisions require applicable oil and gas operators to eliminate or
reduce emissions from pneumatic pumps beginning March 1, 2026. In contrast to the
compliance schedule for pneumatic controllers, there is no phase-in compliance
schedule for pneumatic pumps as there are far fewer pneumatic pumps used in
Colorado than pneumatic controllers. The emission control requirements for pneumatic
pumps fall into two categories, based on facility conditions: (1) facilities that have
access to electrical power or that do not have access to electrical power but have at
least three natural gas-driven pumps; and (2) facilities that do not have access to
electrical power and have less than three natural gas-driven pumps. Also, similarly to
pneumatic controllers, operators that continue to use natural gas-driven pneumatic
pumps must periodically inspect the pneumatic controllers to ensure that the pumps do
not emit to the atmosphere.

Emissions during a leak detection and repair inspection constitute a deviation of the
non-emitting standard for purposes of reporting deviations, but may not constitute a
violation of the regulation so long as the operator completes the required repair,
monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting for leaks.

As an alternative to the new pneumatic controller or pneumatic pump emission control,
inspection, repair, and recordkeeping provisions, the Commission also adopted a
provision that owners or operators may comply with the natural gas-driven pneumatic
controller or pneumatic pump emissions control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and
reporting requirements within 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart OOOOb - Standards of
Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction,
Modification or Reconstruction Commenced after December 6, 2022 (March 8, 2024).


                                                                                         731
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission included in the pneumatic controllers and pneumatic pumps sections,
language designating the provisions as “State Only” or “Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude
Oil and Natural Gas Facilities”. The provisions designated as “State Only” are those that
the Commission does not intend on including in Colorado’s 111(d) plan, or Colorado’s
SIP. The provisions designated as “Colorado 111(d) Plan for Crude Oil and Natural Gas
Facilities” are those that the Commission intends to include in the 111(d) plan, but not in
the SIP. While so designated, the provisions included in Colorado’s 111(d) Plan are not
federally enforceable until approved by EPA, which will be a date after the Plan is
submitted in March 2026.

Natural gas processing plant leak detection and repair

Colorado has required all natural gas processing plants located in the ozone
nonattainment area to comply with leak detection and repair (LDAR) requirements in an
NSPS since 2005 and statewide since 2023. The early LDAR requirements were to
comply with NSPS KKK, which incorporates LDAR requirements from NSPS VV. These
requirements for natural gas processing plants were updated in 2017 to require
compliance with NSPS OOOO or NSPS OOOOa, which incorporate LDAR
requirements from NSPS VVa, and were expanded statewide in 2022. However, EPA
updated both NSPS OOOO and OOOOa in 2024 to reference a new NSPS, Subpart
OOOOb. Sections 60.5365 and 60.5365a require affected facilities to comply with the
requirements in NSPS OOOO and OOOOa, respectively, until the facility is subject to
NSPS OOOOb, after which the facility must comply with NSPS OOOOb. Therefore, the
Commission updated the incorporation by reference dates of NSPS OOOO and
OOOOa as related to the natural gas plant LDAR requirements. Where subject, owners
or operators must adhere to the requirements of NSPS OOOOb, instead of NSPS
OOOO or OOOOa. The submittal of reports to CEDRI to satisfy the reporting
requirements of NSPS Subparts OOOO, OOOOa, or OOOOb will satisfy the gas plant
LDAR reporting obligations for purposes of Regulation Number 7.

Pre- and early-production air quality monitoring

In September 2020, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7 to
address the directives in SB 19-181 (Concerning additional public welfare protections


                                                                                       732
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

regarding the conduct of oil and gas operations) to consider adopting continuous
monitors at oil and gas operations. As stated in 2020, the purpose of the program was
multi-faceted and anticipated expectations for the program were to gather information
about evolving monitoring technologies, to gather data about potential emissions during
monitored operations, and to inform future monitoring efforts. In 2023, the Energy and
Carbon Management Commission (ECMC) funded an evaluation of the monitoring
program and submitted monitoring plans and reports, which was published in August
2024. The report recommended potential standardizations to achieve consistent
monitoring programs and data. Therefore, the Commission adopted revisions to
standardize monitoring equipment calibration and testing procedures, monitoring
sampling and data reporting intervals, and monitoring plan and reporting formats.

These standardizations do not revise the original objective of the program to “detect,
evaluate, and reduce” emissions but are intended to improve the quality of the
monitoring data, the comparability of the data, and the comparability of the data across
monitoring plans. These standardizations also do not remove the flexibility of the
program, as emphasized in 2020, for operators to submit air monitoring plans specific to
their operations and the monitoring objective(s). While standardizing aspects of the
program such as number of monitors, monitor siting, and response levels in order to
improve the comparability of data across monitoring plans is an important goal of these
revisions, operators will continue to be able to submit in their air quality monitoring plans
site, technology, and operator specific elements. To preserve and assist this flexibility,
the Division will publish guidance outlining parameters for monitor siting, response
levels and procedures, whole air sample collection, monitoring equipment quality
assurance procedures, and parameters for the Division to evaluate and approve
alternative monitoring plan elements. In recognition of the continuing potential for
innovation, the Commission intends for the Division to work with operators to approve
alternative program elements, where appropriate, that fulfill the program objectives. The
approval of alternative program elements may also reflect a short term need to provide
additional time for service providers to upgrade or reprogram monitoring equipment
(e.g., auto triggering whole air samplers on a rolling average). In addition, the approval
of alternative program elements may be needed to minimize conflicting or redundant


                                                                                         733
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

local government monitoring requirements, which will be evaluated as needed. The
Division will continue to review each plan submitted to ensure the plan meets the
objectives of this monitoring program.

In addition to standardizing the number of monitors, minimum sampling frequency, and
minimum data recovery, the Commission adopted a requirement for automatically
triggered whole air sampling at specific locations and for a collection period of no more
than one-hour, to be used to characterize and evaluate emissions events. The
Commission recognizes that this one-hour data may not be appropriate for comparison
with current health-based standards and caution should be exercised, at this time, with
utilizing this data for health-based analyses (e.g., attempting to align with the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry’s (ATSDR) Minimal Risk Level (MRL) acute
duration of 1-14 days). While this is an adopted standardization, the Commission’s
revisions allow operators to request in their submitted monitoring plan alternatives to
this standardization that will also support the monitoring objective (e.g., “evaluate”
emissions). The Commission also adopted a standardized monthly bump test and
calibration schedule. The purpose of standardizing sensor maintenance procedures is
to address sensor drift and, thus, collect more consistent sensor readings. Sensor drift
can result from changes in environmental conditions, aging of sensor components, and
variations in manufacturing tolerances. Periodic bump tests and calibration align the
sensor outputs to match the intended measurement values. Similar to other adopted
standardizations, the Commission’s revisions retain the flexibility for operators to
request alternative equipment maintenance and calibration procedures in their
submitted monitoring plan.

       ○      Recognizing that these standardizations represent a second step in
              understanding both pre-production emissions and the evolving
              technologies that may be used to monitor them, the Commission directs
              the Division to continue to evaluate future revisions to this program
              including if needed the purpose and duration of monitoring, after sufficient
              additional data has been reported. The Commission requests that the
              Division provide periodic status updates on this monitoring program,
              including one before January 31, 2027.


                                                                                          734
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Clean-up

The Commission adopted clean-up and clarification revisions to include select reporting
dates and refine the definition of infra-red camera to reflect current implementation.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical, and formatting
errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-
103(12.5) are met by including specific information and making the regulations available
because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be
unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 7.

Additional Considerations

The Clean Air Act does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law requires Colorado to develop a plan that include
standards of performance for all designated facilities address in an Emission Guideline
and to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to
Regulation Number 7 to reduce GHG and ozone precursor emissions in Colorado.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
Section 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations in the
       oil and gas sector. NSPS KKK, NSPS OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, and NSPS
       OOOOb may also apply to the above listed operations and equipment. However,
       the revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis.

(II)   The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
       largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.


                                                                                           735
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        The proposed state only requirements are technology- and performance- based
        that allow for maximum flexibility for demonstrating compliance.

(III)   The CAA requires Colorado to develop a state plan that includes standards of
        performance for designated facilities in an Emission Guideline. EG OOOOc was
        not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. EPA develops
        NSPS, Emission Guidelines, and NESHAP considering national information and
        data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns.

(IV)    Colorado must develop a plan that include standards of performance for all
        designated facilities address in an Emission Guideline. These current revisions
        may improve the ability of the regulated community to comply with new
        requirements insofar as the revisions adopted by the Commission align, where
        possible, with existing requirements and may prevent or reduce the need to
        implement additional, more burdensome requirements.

(V)     Colorado must submit a complete state plan to EPA by March 2026 and require
        implementation of standards of performance no later than March 2029. Further,
        Colorado must attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2027, and the 2015
        ozone NAAQS by August 3, 2027, or risk being reclassified. There is no timing
        issue that might justify changing the time frame for submitting a state plan related
        to the EG OOOOc designated facilities.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish a flexible framework for
        compliance and allow for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If Colorado does not submit a state plan that includes performance standards for
        the designated facilities in the EG OOOOc, Colorado would be subject to a
        federal plan implemented by EPA. If Colorado does not attain the ozone NAAQS,
        EPA will reclassify the ozone nonattainment areas to more stringent




                                                                                        736
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        nonattainment areas. These outcomes could result in more stringent federal
        requirements and may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include monitoring,
        recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where possible, to
        similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in greenhouse gases, ozone,
        VOC, or NOx to address the Emission Guideline and help to attain the NAAQS.
        The Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was reasonable and
        cost-effective. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in the
        need for much more stringent requirements to reduce ozone and subject the
        state to a federal plan implementing the model rule requirements in the Emission
        Guideline.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

To the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of VOCs and GHG emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.


                                                                                           737
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

FF.     April 18, 2025 (Revisions to Part B, Sections V.B.1., and V.D.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In 2022, the General Assembly adopted House Bill (HB) 22-1244 (Public Protections
from Toxic Air Contaminants), now codified primarily in section 25-7-109.5 C.R.S.
Section 25-7-109.5(4) C.R.S. directs the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission)
to consider adoption of rules for toxic air contaminant (TAC) reporting beginning in
calendar year 2025. The Commission is also granted authority to review, adopt, and
periodically revise the Division’s initial list of TAC at section 25-7-109.5(3)(b) C.R.S.
Collection and inventory of TAC data from sources in Colorado is essential to identifying
public health risks from TAC and implementation other aspects of HB 22-1244, such as
the identification of additional priority TAC (PTAC), setting of health based standards for
PTAC, creation of control strategy regulations for PTAC, and investigation into a Division
permitting program for PTAC.

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. to
support the statutory directive at section 25-7-109.5(4), C.R.S., and to ensure a
development of an accurate and robust TAC inventory to support further TAC regulatory
requirements as set forth by HB 22-1244. Additionally, these revisions will support other
air quality planning efforts associated with these refined estimates for criteria and
precursor emissions. The Commission also adopted corresponding revisions to
Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. The Commission acknowledges that the


                                                                                            738
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

scope of reporting under Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section V.B.1.h. is greater than
the scope of reporting under Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. For example,
owners and operators reporting under Regulation Number 7 have fewer exemptions that
apply and are required to report emissions from all minor sources above the de minimis
reporting thresholds. The Division should consider that oil and gas sources under
Regulation Number 7 have more extensive reporting requirements in the development
and implementation of future aspects of the State’s air toxics program and when
communicating this data (e.g., publication of the Colorado annual air toxic reports on the
Division’s website).

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in section 25-7-102, C.R.S. and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S.
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information. Section 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S.
directs the Commission to, by no later than April 30, 2025, consider the adoption of
rules to revise TAC reporting requirements initially authorized directly under section 25-
7-109.5(4)(a), C.R.S. The Commission shall base these reporting rules on the findings
of the gap analysis report that the Division provided to the Commission under section
25-7-109.5(4)(c)(I)-(II), C.R.S.

Purpose

As directed in section 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S., the Commission adopted revisions to
Regulation Number 7, Part A, Section V.: (State Only) Oil and Natural Gas Operations
Emissions Inventory to require owners or operators currently reporting under the
ONGAEIR program to also report annual emissions of TAC.

The Commission adopted revisions in Part B, Section V.B.1.h. to establish annual TAC
and additional criteria air pollutant (CAP) reporting requirements for the entire
ONGAEIR reporting universe, given their significant contributions to emissions releases
in Colorado. While there are some sources that are required to obtain operating permits


                                                                                       739
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

or synthetic minor permits, the vast majority of the activity or equipment emissions
pursuant to Section V.B belong to minor sources, which were not covered by the annual
reporting authorized by section 25-7-109.5(4)(a), C.R.S. Additionally, the emissions from
this sector may change substantially each year for different phases of the oil and gas
extraction and production process and these annual estimates will reflect the latest year
of activity instead of the five-year update frequency currently allowed under the APEN
program. This expanded inventory will allow for more precise risk modeling to be
performed for assessing public health risks from TAC as previously the modeling for
much of the oil and gas sector has been limited to county-wide estimates and there
have been errors identified in emission inputs and associated modeling from this sector.
Increasingly, the science suggests that some HAP play important roles in air chemistry
leading to formation of ozone and secondary organic aerosol, a component of PM2.5.
Having more complete TAC data will also be beneficial to improving modeling and
understanding of ozone and PM2.5.

Owners or operators of applicable activities or equipment reporting under Section V.A.
are now required to report TAC with ONGAEIR reports annually, beginning in 2027 for
calendar year 2026 emissions. Owners or operators must report actual emissions of
each TAC listed in Regulation 3, Part A, Appendix C., and PM2.5, PM10 and SO2 for
each activity or equipment listed in Section V.C. of Regulation Number 7, Part B,
excluding non-road engines as listed in Part B, Section V.C.2.s., per facility or per
pipeline between facilities (where the pipeline is not located or part of a stationary
source) in accordance with Division-accepted calculation methods. The exclusion of
non-road engines from annual TAC and additional CAP reporting requirements is a
result of stakeholder feedback concerning the difficulty of calculating emissions.

Acknowledging that the adopted provisions are different from existing ONGAEIR
reporting requirements, the Commission requests the Division to modify the existing
ONGAEIR guidance and conduct additional trainings for subject reporters prior to the
initial year reporting deadline.

Owners or operators of applicable activities or equipment are required to report
emissions of TAC based on the de minimis thresholds listed in Appendix C. The



                                                                                         740
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

thresholds in Appendix C are compared to the facility total emissions where the facility
total includes all equipment or activities owned by the reporting customer number. The
reporting thresholds in Appendix C were adopted to reduce reporting burden and obtain
useful TAC data. They are not being adopted as health-based standards. Health-based
standards for PTACs will be the subject of future rulemaking and subject to General
Assembly approval. The reporting thresholds are also not being adopted as permitting
thresholds. In setting these reporting thresholds, the Commission is not making any
determination on the potential health risk from emissions reported above the reporting
threshold. Reporting emissions at or above the de minimis thresholds does not indicate
the need for a facility or stationary source to assess risk to receptors. In setting these
reporting thresholds, the Commission intends for reporting to inform the Division’s TAC
program in the future, and is not concluding or suggesting that reporting emissions
above the de minimis threshold indicates a potential health risk to individuals or
potential receptors near the source. In keeping with this approach, the Commission
understands that the Division will not use reporting above the de minimis thresholds
alone to presume any potential for risk from a facility or source and will take steps as
necessary to educate the public on understanding potential for risk from exposures to
air toxics consistent with the Commission’s intent in setting de minimis thresholds.

The Commission requests that the Division evaluate whether revisions to this reporting
rule are warranted in the future, and in doing so, consider alternative methodologies or
alternative values for de minimis reporting thresholds to further streamline reporting
while still achieving the desired information to inform future iterations of the Division’s air
toxics program.

Owners or operators of applicable activities or equipment are required to report
additional CAP emissions, including emissions of PM2.5, PM10, and SO2. When the
Commission adopted the ONGAEIR annual emission inventory program in December
2019, it was focused on greenhouse gas emissions and certain CAP to assist Colorado
in ozone planning and ozone attainment modeling. The Commission is not making any
changes to the reporting thresholds for VOC, NOx, or CO which were part of the 2019
inventory rulemaking. In this action, the Commission adopted changes to ONGAEIR to
report additional CAP pollutants emissions, which will allow the ONGAEIR emissions


                                                                                           741
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

inventory to be complete for all CAP and TAC pollutants. This provides consistency in
the basis of the operational and activity data that are used to develop the estimates.
Emissions of PM2.5 and PM10 must be reported if they are above the thresholds in
Section V.B.1.h.(ii)(B). Annual reports must include the actual emissions of lower
quantities of PM2.5 or PM 10 if reporters are using PM emissions to calculate certain
annual TAC emissions. The reporting thresholds for PM2.5, PM10, and SO2 are
consistent with those adopted for Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX.B.3.a(iii)(B).
Division-accepted calculation methods refer to the acceptable methods in guidance
prepared for submitting ONGAEIR reports. Reporting specifications and approved
calculation methods will be cited in the reporting platform.

The Commission repealed Part B, Sections V.B.1.e. and V.B.1.g.(i) as the dates and
deadlines in those requirements have since passed. The Commission also repealed
Part B, Section V.B.1.f. as the paragraph duplicates language in Section V.B.1.g. The
Commission adopted revisions to Part B, Section V.D. to address administrative terms
regarding the name change to the Energy and Carbon Management Commission,
formerly known as the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. The
Commission intends to send all emission data, including the new TAC and additional
criteria pollutants to the Energy and Carbon Management Commission.

Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable)

There are no direct federal requirements that correspond with the new rule. However, to
the extent the new rule could be construed to exceed or differ from any related
requirements of federal law, the Commission provides the following additional
statement, consistent with section 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S.:

(I) Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on
those requirements;

There are several federal regulations that are related, but not directly applicable, to
Colorado’s adoption of annual TAC reporting regulations. These federal reporting
programs are not directly applicable, as the Commission’s consideration of a state
annual TAC reporting regulation is a state statutory requirement under § 25-7-
109.5(4)(c)(III) C.R.S. The related federal reporting requirements are:


                                                                                          742
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

a.      U.S. EPA Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)

The EPA TRI collects annual reports from facilities that discharge chemicals into the
environment via the air, water, land or underground injection, and any associated
pollution prevention strategies. Sources that must report to the TRI are based on
chemical activity thresholds at a facility, are covered industries based on certain NAICS
codes, or report based on EPCRA 313(b)(2). Each chemical listed under the TRI has
specific activity thresholds that may trigger reporting.

b.      U.S. EPA Air Emissions Reporting Rule (AERR)

The EPA collects toxic air emissions data through the AERR. At present, the AERR
gathers data from states on CAP: sulfur dioxide SO2, volatile organic compounds
(VOC), nitrogen oxides (NOx), primary particulate matter 10 and 2.5 PM10 and PM2.5),
carbon monoxide (CO), lead (Pb) and ammonia (NH3). State reporting of federal HAP to
the EPA is currently voluntary, although the Division has provided HAP voluntarily to
EPA for many decades based on data reported under the APEN program. States are
required to report CAP data for certain larger sources based on potential to emit. Under
the current AERR, states report annually for ‘very large’ sources and triennially for ‘large’
sources The thresholds for ‘large’ and ‘very large’ sources are dependent upon non-
attainment area (NAA) classification for one or more National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS).

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        The federal requirements related to reporting of TAC or CAP emissions are not
        performance-based or technology-based.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;




                                                                                        743
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

       The federal reporting requirements in the EPA TRI or AERR do not specifically
       address Colorado’s statutory directive to consider a TAC reporting program that
       ensures annual reports on TAC are submitted to the Division.

(IV)   Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
       community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
       potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
       or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
       requirements later;

       The adopted revisions at Part B, Section V. establish additional reporting
       requirements on the regulated community. Multiple commenters urged the
       Division to minimize potential duplicative reporting burden on impacted sources.
       To accomplish this objective, the Division is leveraging the existing ONGAIER
       reporting platform for oil and gas sector sources since this information is already
       provided for other ONGAEIR pollutants. Where applicable, the revisions align
       reporting format and procedures with federal requirements, to simplify and clarify
       requirements for owners and operators reporting to both federal and state
       programs. The inclusion of annual TAC and CAP reporting to Section V., will
       simplify and streamline requirements for reporters subject to ONGAEIR.
       Additionally, the de minimis thresholds in Regulation 3, Part A, Appendix C
       improve the ability of the regulated community to comply in a more cost-effective
       way.

(V)    Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
       implementation of federal requirements;

       These are state-specific revisions that are not implementing federal
       requirements. Thus, no major timing issue exists. However, the TRI has an
       annual reporting deadline of July 1. The current AERR has a deadline for states
       to submit point source data by December 31 of the year after inventory year, with
       grace period extension of 15 days. In Colorado, this submittal would include the
       latest data on file at the time of the submittal, which could reflect the inventory
       year, but could also reflect emissions from prior years due to the 5-year update


                                                                                         744
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        frequency under the APEN program. The adopted revisions establish a TAC
        reporting deadline of June 30 each year, for the previous calendar year
        emissions, which is consistent with TRI, the existing ONGAEIR deadline and
        provides time for Division staff to review submittals prior to the current AERR
        submittal deadlines.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The reporting revisions in Part B, Section V. are retrospective in that they will
        require sources to report past emissions (i.e., by June 30, 2027, sources must
        report calendar year 2026 emissions data) and therefore are not subject to
        uncertainty and do not hinder or negatively affect future growth of facilities.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The reporting requirements are consistent across source types, as they are
        based on de minimis thresholds in Regulation Number 3, Section A, Appendix C
        and, therefore, maintain reasonable equity in the reporting requirements.
        Additionally, the new revisions require all sources that are subject to ONGAEIR to
        now report TAC annually, maintaining reasonable equity across source types that
        report to ONGAEIR.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
        enacted;

        It is not anticipated there would be increased direct costs to others if a more
        stringent rule is not enacted.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;

        The adopted revisions do require additional and different reporting requirements
        for pollutants in Colorado, compared to federal reporting requirements. Reporting


                                                                                            745
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        requirements beyond those required under federal law are necessary to
        effectively quantify and analyze TAC emissions in Colorado. The Commission is
        under direction from state statute to establish an annual TAC reporting program,
        among other regulatory directives around TAC, which may all be impacted by the
        Division’s and the Commission’s ability to acquire accurate and detailed TAC
        data from sources of air emissions in the state. Collecting data at the levels,
        frequencies, and granularity that the adopted revisions established will be vital to
        future regulations surrounding TAC, many which are required by state statute.

(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        Owners or operators subject to Part B, Section V. currently report to the existing
        ONGAEIR platform. The adopted revisions will require the ONGAEIR platform to
        be modified to accept additional pollutants., The Division has planned
        modernizations to streamline ONGAEIR’s functionality, since new TAC and CAP
        reporting is required at the emissions point level. The planned modernizations
        will incorporate a bulk upload option and eliminate spreadsheets to reduce
        inventory or records, and address issues with storing data in current IT platforms.
        The modernization will also allow the TAC data to be automatically added to the
        ONGAEIR database and will create a better system to address resubmitted
        reports.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        The adopted revisions will allow for the development of a comprehensive and
        robust TAC inventory, which will enable and inform future implementation
        strategies to identify additional priority TAC, develop cost-effective emission
        control strategy regulations, and evaluate a TAC permitting program, as directed
        by Section 25-7-109.5. C.R.S.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.


                                                                                          746
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        The revisions in Part B, Section V. achieve the statutorily mandated directive to
        consider reporting requirements that ensure annual TAC emissions are reported
        to the Division. Alternate reporting requirements could satisfy the state statutory
        requirements. A no-action alternative would default to existing statutory language
        at 25-7-109.5(4)(a), which directs annual TAC reporting from sources required to
        obtain title V operating permits and synthetic minor sources. However, this
        alternative would omit reporting a large proportion of TAC emissions in the state
        from oil and gas extraction operations and could prevent the Division from
        collecting important data about equipment and operations that would inform TAC
        regulations going forward. Under this alternative approach, de minimis thresholds
        would also not exist, meaning that sources could face additional reporting
        burdens.

Findings of Fact

Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements do not apply to this rulemaking because the
adopted rule is not directly intended to reduce air pollution. To the extent § 25-7-110.8,
C.R.S. does apply to this rulemaking, after considering all the information in the record,
the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     The rule is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
        scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information
        submitted by interested parties.

(II)    The rule is not intended to address a reduction in air pollution, or, in the
        alternative, is administrative in nature.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule provides benefits that
        justify the costs to government to implement the rule, and to the extent possible,
        minimizes any cost to the regulated community or public in order for the
        Commission to establish sufficiently comprehensive and robust inventories of
        TAC.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results and reduction in air pollution.



                                                                                           747
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The rule does not directly result in air quality benefits but shall address state
        statutory requirements in a cost effective manner.

GG.     November 19-21, 2025 (Revisions to Part A, Section I. and Part B, Sections
I., III., VI., and VII.)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, (State Air Act or the Act), §§ 25-7-110
and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

On July 24, 2024, EPA reclassified the Denver Metro/North Front Range (DM/NFR) and
northern Weld County ozone nonattainment area to serious for the 2015 8-hour Ozone
National Ambient Air Quality Standard of 70 parts per billion (ppb) (2015 ozone
NAAQS). See 89 Fed. Reg. 59832 (July 24, 2024).

Further, in a March 2023 letter Governor Jared Polis directed the Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) and the Energy and Carbon Management
Commission (ECMC) (fka Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission) to adopt
rules to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from upstream oil and gas operations
by 30% in 2025 and 50% by 2030, relative to a 2017 baseline. The Commission
adopted requirements to achieve the 2025 reduction target in 2023.

To ensure progress towards attainment of the ozone NAAQS and comply with the
Governor’s directed 2030 reduction goal, the Commission adopted revisions to
Regulation Number 7 expand state implementation plan (SIP) applicability to additional
sources in northern Weld County. The Commission also adopted revisions to the use
and operation of fossil fuel-fired equipment at oil and gas well drilling and completion
operations.

Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration


                                                                                            748
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of Article 7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include
essentially any gas emitted into the atmosphere (and, as such, includes volatile organic
compounds (VOC), NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons) and provides the
Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants. Section 105(1)(a)(I) directs the
Commission to adopt a SIP to attain the NAAQS. Section 105(1)(b) directs the
Commission to adopt emission control regulations in conformity with § 25-7-109. C.R.S.
Section 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing
an effective air quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as
may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program. Section 25-7-106 also
authorizes the Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the
entire state, specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. Section 25-7-
106(6), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of
any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information. Section 25-7-
109(1)(a), C.R.S., directs the Commission to adopt emission control requirements that
require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for: (1) each significant source
or category of significant sources of air pollutants and (2) each type of facility, process,
or activity which products or might product significant emissions of air pollutants.
Section 25-7-103(11), C.R.S., defines emission control regulation to mean a regulation
that is applicable to a specified type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of
controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted and a regulation that adopts
any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard. Section 25-7-109(2),
C.R.S., allows emission control regulations pertaining to, among other pollutants,
nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons. Section 25-7-109(10)(d), C.R.S., directs the Division
to propose rules on or before August 31, 2026, designed to reduce emissions of NOx
generated by upstream oil and gas operations by fifty percent by 2030 relative to the
2017 NOx emission level in the SIP.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.


                                                                                              749
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Oil and gas pre-production operations

In 2023, the Commission adopted rules to reduce the impact of the use and operation of
fossil fuel-fired equipment at oil and gas drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and hydraulic
refracturing operations. The regulations were adopted to secure a 30% reduction in
upstream oil and gas NOx emissions by 2025 and move the area towards attainment
with federal ozone standards. The Commission adopted these revisions recognizing
they are one step in meeting the Governor’s directive of achieving a 50% reduction in
NOx emissions from the upstream oil and gas sector by 2030. The Commission also
directed the establishment of a NOx reduction steering committee to evaluate the 2026
NOx intensity target and use practices and opportunities to meet the later 2030
emissions reduction goal.

The Commission now adopts additional NOx intensity targets to achieve a 50%
reduction by and beyond 2030. The Commission revised the reporting requirements to
retain the requirement for operators to report NOx emissions and production for the
Division to use to evaluate progress toward the NOx intensity targets. The Commission
directs the Division to annually evaluate actual production data. The Division’s
evaluation should consider trends in actual production (increases or decreases) and
based on this evaluation, the Division should recommend adjusting NOx intensity
targets as necessary.

SIP Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT)

Due to the reclassification to serious, Colorado must submit revisions to its SIP to
address the Clean Air Act’s (CAA) ozone nonattainment area requirements, as set forth
in CAA §§ 172, 182(c), and the final SIP Requirements Rule, 83 Fed. Reg. 62998 (Dec.
6, 2018). Serious SIPs must include provisions that require the implementation of RACT
for major sources of VOC and/or NOx (i.e., sources that emit or have the potential to
emit 50 tpy or more) and for each category of VOC sources covered by a Control
Technique Guideline (CTG) for which Colorado has sources in the nonattainment area.

Therefore, to address the serious nonattainment area requirements under CAA §
182(c), the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 7 to include RACT
requirements in Colorado’s ozone SIP for 50 tpy VOC major stationary transmission and


                                                                                           750
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

storage segment compressor stations, specifically adopting a requirement for owners or
operators of such facilities to conduct quarterly leak detection and repair inspections.

Clean-up

The Commission corrected the disproportionately impacted community mapping tool
referenced in Section VII.A.7.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-
103(12.5), C.R.S., are met by including specific information and making the regulations
available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 7.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address ozone nonattainment area
requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado
to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission adopted
certain revisions to Regulation Number 7 to further achieve reductions of ozone
precursor emissions. These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to
state flexibility in determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions.
However, where the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines

(I)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address state only requirements for drilling
       and completion operations in the oil and gas sector and SIP requirements for
       leak detection and repair at certain facilities. New Source Performance
       Standards (NSPS) OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, NSPS OOOOb, NSPS IIII, NSPS


                                                                                       751
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

        JJJJ, MACT HH, Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) HHH, and
        MACT ZZZZ may also apply to the above listed operations and equipment.
        However, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a broader basis.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        The proposed state only requirements are technology- and performance- based
        that allow for maximum flexibility for demonstrating compliance.

(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to
        develop SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone
        NAAQS was not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado.
        Similarly, EPA develops NSPS or National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
        Pollutants (NESHAP) considering national information and data, not Colorado
        specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a
        federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy
        Colorado’s obligation to attain the ozone NAAQS. Instead, Colorado can adopt
        applicable provisions to reduce emissions of ozone precursors, as the
        Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 ozone NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower
        2015 ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the
        regulated community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower
        NAAQS insofar as efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted by the
        Commission may prevent or reduce the need to implement additional, more
        burdensome requirements to meet the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     The proposed revisions are not impacted by federal timelines.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish a flexible framework for
        compliance and allow for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.



                                                                                          752
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(VIII) If Colorado does not attain the ozone NAAQS, EPA will reclassify the ozone
        control area and northern Weld County to a more stringent nonattainment area.
        This outcome would result in more stringent federal requirements for the region
        and may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include monitoring,
        recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where possible, to
        similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements already applicable.

(XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation Number
        7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help to attain
the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in failure to attain
the ozone NAAQS. As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the
Commission has taken into consideration each of the factors set forth in § 25-7-
109(1)(b), C.R.S.

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of VOCs and NOx emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.




                                                                                       753
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

(IV)   The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
       results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
       reduction in air pollution.

(V)    The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
       effective manner.




                                                                                         754
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

HH.     February 18-20, 2026 (Revisions to Part B)
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In March 2024, EPA finalized 40 C.F.R. Part 60, Subpart OOOOc, Emission Guidelines
for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Existing Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities (EG
OOOOc), which triggered the requirement for states to develop plans that include
standards of performance for all designated facilities addressed in EG OOOOc. EG
OOOOc includes presumptive standards for storage vessels, process controllers (aka
pneumatic controllers), pumps (aka pneumatic pumps), fugitive emissions, gas well
liquids unloading, well associated gas, centrifugal compressors, and reciprocating
compressors. On December 3, 2025, EPA published a final rule to extend deadlines for
certain provisions within NSPS OOOOb , as well as the deadline for EG OOOOc state
plan submittals by 540 days from publication. Regulation Number 7 includes
requirements for all of these designated facilities, some of which differ from the
presumptive standards in EG OOOOc. Therefore, the Commission adopted revisions to
the requirements for compressors, wellhead only leak detection and repair (LDAR),
equipment in the transmission and storage segment, and LDAR at natural gas
processing plants, to align more closely with the presumptive standards in EG OOOOc.

In December 2021, the Commission adopted requirements in Regulation Number 7 and
Regulation Number 22 (the requirements in Regulation Number 22 have since been
moved to Regulation Number 7) to address several state goals, including the
greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the oil and gas sector. The requirements
include greenhouse gas intensity targets for the upstream oil and gas segment. The
Commission revised the intensity targets for small operators to provide additional time
for applicable operators to find technically and economically-feasible solutions to
meeting the intensity targets.



                                                                                       755
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Further, the Commissions adopted revisions to address clarifications and typographical,
grammatical, and formatting errors found throughout the regulation.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, section 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq.
(the State Air Act or the Act), specifically section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the
legislative declaration set forth in section 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for
the proper implementation and administration of Article 7. Section 25-7-106 provides the
Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality program and
promulgating such a combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to
carry out that program. Section 25-7-106(c) C.R.S., specifically authorizes the
Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state,
specified areas or zones, or when a specified class of pollution is present. Sections
109(1)(a), (2), and (3), C.R.S., authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations
requiring effective practical air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of
sources and emission control regulations pertaining to nitrogen oxides and
hydrocarbons. Section 25-7-109(10), C.R.S., directs the Commission to adopt emission
control regulations to minimize emissions of methane, other hydrocarbons, volatile
organic compounds (VOC), and nitrogen oxides (NOx) from oil and gas operations.
Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to require owners and
operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

EG OOOOc

In March 2024, EPA finalized EG OOOOc, which triggered the requirement for states to
develop plans that include standards of performance for all designated facilities
addressed in EG OOOOc. With these revisions, the Commission adopted additional



                                                                                          756
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements for compressors, wellhead only LDAR, equipment in the transmission and
storage segment, and LDAR at natural gas processing plants to align more closely with
the presumptive standards in EG OOOOc.

EG OOOOc - compressors

Colorado has required owners or operators to reduce emissions from centrifugal
compressor wet seal fluid degassing systems and reciprocating compressor rod packing
since 2013, with updates in 2017 to align with recommendations in EPA’s Oil and Gas
Control Techniques Guideline (CTG). Distinct from Colorado’s requirements, the
presumptive standard in EPA’s EG OOOOc is for wet seal centrifugal, dry seal
centrifugal, and reciprocating compressors to maintain seal and cylinder emissions
below a specified volumetric flow rate. Therefore, to align with EG OOOOc, the
Commission adopted requirements for owners or operators of subject compressors to
comply with compressor seal and cylinder volumetric flow rates.

Colorado has required owners or operators to collect reciprocating compressor rod
packing VOC emissions using a rod packing emissions collection system that operates
under negative pressure. This negative pressure requirement was also reflected in
associated recordkeeping provisions, which required owners or operators to maintain
records for emissions routed to a process through a closed vent system operating under
negative pressure. In response to comments on EPA’s November 2021 proposal for
NSPS OOOOb and EG OOOOc, however, the EPA revised the compliance alternative
for routing rod packing emissions to a process via a closed vent system by removing the
requirement that such routing occur under negative pressure. Commenters identified
safety and operational concerns associated with operating under negative pressure.
The EPA further recognized that specifying negative pressure is unnecessary because
an adequate pressure differential is inherently created during normal compressor
operation. Accordingly, the Commission adopted revisions to remove the negative
pressure requirements and align Colorado’s requirements with the EPA’s updated
approach.

In EG OOOOc, EPA includes exemptions to the centrifugal and reciprocating
compressor requirements for compressors located at well sites but not at centralized


                                                                                       757
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

production facilities. Based on the definition of “centralized production facility” in EG
OOOOc, and the definition of “well production facility” in Regulation Number 7, the
Commission considers a centralized production facility to be a type and subset of well
production facilities, similar to how wellhead only well production facilities are identified
a type and subset of well production facilities. The Commission adopted a new definition
for “centralized well production facility,” which explains that centralized well production
facilities are well production facilities that gather hydrocarbon products from wells
located at different surface sites. In the definition, the Commission clarifies that a
separate surface site is considered to be greater than 0.25 miles from the centralized
well production facility. A centralized well production facility can include product
gathered from wells located at the same surface site, but must include product from
wells gathered from other surface sites. A well production facility that gathers product
from wells only at its own surface site is not considered a centralized well production
facility. In Part B, Sections II.J.1. (centrifugal compressors) and II.K.1. (reciprocating
compressors), the Commission adopted the EG OOOOc-aligning exemptions for
compressors located at well production facilities, unless they are classified as
centralized well production facilities specifically, pursuant to the adopted definition. This
aligns with the exemption in EG OOOOc for compressors at well sites but not at
centralized production facilities. However, the Commission emphasizes that adding the
definition of centralized well production facility for purposes of the compressor
requirements does not change other requirements applicable to centralized well
production facilities as required for the more general term well production facilities.

EG OOOOc - wellhead only well sites

Colorado has required owners or operators of well production facilities to identify leaks
from components since 2013, with updates in 2017, 2019, and 2021. Distinct from
Colorado’s requirements, the presumptive standard in EPA’s EG OOOOc also includes
a requirement for quarterly audio, visual, and olfactory (AVO), or any other detection
method, inspections of single wellhead only well sites and small well sites. Colorado
defines well production facilities differently than EPA for purposes of wellsite LDAR
requirements. Therefore, the Commission adopted an additional wellhead only well
production facility definition to clarify that the well production facility LDAR requirements


                                                                                             758
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

also apply to wellhead only sites, to ensure that the regulation is clear that these
facilities must be periodically inspected for leaks from components under the existing
LDAR program. Wellhead only well production facilities are identified as a type and sub-
set of well production facilities in which the well production facility consists of only
equipment for the wellhead; that is, the piping, casing, tubing, and valves protruding
from the surface; and does not include other production and processing equipment that
may be found at other well production facilities. The Commission did not adopt any new
requirements or otherwise revise the requirements for the well production facility LDAR
program in Part B, Section II.E. Owners and operators can conduct LDAR inspections at
wellhead only well production facilities as part of a single permitted well production
facility.

During this rulemaking, the Commission heard from industry representatives that there
may have been different interpretations over the history of the development of the LDAR
program amongst operators regarding whether wellhead-only sites are subject to LDAR
requirements. The Division maintains that wellhead-only sites fall within the definition of
well production facilities and are subject to LDAR requirements. Industry
representatives expressed support for incorporating wellhead-only facilities into the
LDAR program, but emphasized that operators should not be subject to enforcement for
past non-implementation practices, given their interpretation. In retaining the existing
LDAR program but in recognition of historic interpretations and guidance, the
Commission understands that the Division does not intend to pursue enforcement on
wellhead-only sites not located on a production pad, for LDAR program requirements
prior to April 14, 2026 (i.e., effective date of this rulemaking).

EG OOOOc - natural gas processing plants

Colorado has required all natural gas processing plants located in the ozone
nonattainment area to comply with LDAR requirements in a New Source Performance
Standard (NSPS) since 2005 and statewide since 2023. The early LDAR requirements
were to comply with NSPS KKK, which incorporates LDAR requirements from NSPS
VV. These requirements for natural gas processing plants were updated in 2017 to
require compliance with NSPS OOOO or NSPS OOOOa, which incorporate LDAR



                                                                                           759
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements from NSPS VVa, and were expanded statewide in 2021. However, EPA
finalized a protocol for the use of optical gas imaging (OGI) in leak detection as
appendix K to 40 CFR part 60 and, in EG OOOOc, is specifying the use of this protocol
for application at natural gas processing plants. Therefore, the Commission adopted a
requirement for all natural gas processing plants located in Colorado to comply with
LDAR provisions modeled on EG OOOOc, which specifies the use of appendix K and
an alternative use of EPA’s Method 21. In utilizing EPA’s definition of low–e packing, the
Commission emphasizes that the definition, which ensures that materials used for valve
repairs meet the specifications outlined, does not by itself require a drill-and-tap repair
method.

EG OOOOc - transmission and storage segment

The Commission adopted a methane intensity program for the transmission and storage
segment in 2019, which includes a requirement for owners or operators to implement
best management practices to reduce methane emissions. In contrast, EPA’s EG
OOOOc requires owners or operators in the transmission and storage segment to
comply with direct requirements for storage vessels, compressors, pneumatic devices,
and fugitive emissions from components. The Commission understands that many of
these practices are conducted by Colorado’s transmission and storage segment owners
or operators as best management practices. However, to further align with EG OOOOc,
the Commission directly included these standards and work practices as direct
requirements for the transmission and storage segment in Part B, Section IV. by way of
referencing requirements in Part B, Sections II. and III. In using this cross-reference
structure, the Commission does not intend to alter the applicability of Part B, Sections II.
or III. or cause the transmission and storage segment to be independently subject to
Part B, Sections II. or III.

Section I. (SIP) and Section II. (111(d)) interplay

The Commission previously adopted requirements in Part B, Sections I.G., I.J.1., I.J.2.,
and I.K. to include emission control, inspection, repair, and recordkeeping requirements
for process unit equipment at natural gas processing plants, compressors, and
pneumatic pumps. Those requirements pertain to VOC emissions and are included in


                                                                                          760
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Colorado’s State Implementation Plan (SIP). The new requirements for natural gas
processing plants in Part B, Section II.I.2. and compressors in Part B, Sections II.J. and
II.K. pertain to methane emissions and will be included in Colorado’s 111(d) plan, but
not the SIP. Similarly, the requirements adopted in February 2025 for pneumatic pumps
in Part B, Section III.G. pertain to methane and will be included in Colorado’s 111(d)
plan, but not the SIP. To prevent regulatory redundancy, the Commission does not
intend for operators to maintain compliance with the natural gas processing plant and
compressor requirements in both Sections I. and II. or the pneumatic pump
requirements in both Sections I. and III. Therefore, the Commission adopted revisions to
Sections I.G.1.a., I.J.1.I., I.J.2.f., and I.K.6., which state that compliance with the natural
gas processing plant, compressor, or pneumatic pump requirements in Sections II.I.2.,
II.J., II.K., or III.G. fulfill compliance with the natural gas processing plant, compressor,
or pneumatic pump requirements in Section I. The Commission clarifies that while
Section I. pertains to VOC emissions and Section II. pertains to methane emissions,
compliance with the methane emission control requirements effectively achieves the
necessary VOC emission controls. Operators are expected to comply only with the
applicable Sections II. or III. requirements, which in turn fulfill compliance with the
Section I. requirements. The Commission did not repeal the Section I. requirements, as
those remain in Colorado’s SIP.

Methane intensity

The upstream greenhouse gas intensity program establishes greenhouse gas intensity
targets for majority and minority intensity operators in the upstream oil and gas
segment. Intensity targets are established for calendar years 2025 through 2030. The
intensity program does not include any prescribed methods for achieving the intensity
targets. The Commission adopted revisions that delay compliance with intensity targets
for small operators until 2030 by removing the 2025 to 2029 intensity targets. The
Commission did not remove the 2030 targets for these small operators. The revisions
apply to operators with less than 45 kBOE hydrocarbon and natural gas production in
applicable years. The purpose of these revisions is to address concerns with limited
technically and economically-feasible options for achieving intensity targets in the short
term for small, cost-burdened operators, particularly for carbon dioxide emissions.


                                                                                           761
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Delaying when the first intensity targets must be met by applicable operators will
provide additional time for such operators to explore emission reduction solutions, allow
supporting industries to respond to demands for emissions control technologies, give
additional time for financial planning and market adjustments, allow for the marginal well
closure funds to become fully available, and help prevent orphaned wells which could
result in greater methane emissions. Applicable intensity operators will still be required
to comply with the existing 2030 intensity targets, but are not required to wait until 2030
to implement emission reduction strategies. Because the targets step down over target
years, there may be greater emission reductions required from current levels in a
shorter timeline to meet 2030 targets for these operators, compared to intermittently
decreasing emissions to meet the earlier targets. The revised rule provides flexibility to
operators who need it the most, while preserving significant emissions reductions
through the remaining targets for minority and majority operators.

Clean-up

The Commission adopted additional revisions for clean-up and clarification purposes to
provide minor enhancements to specific provisions. Adding to the definitions of “infra-
red camera” (Part B, Section II.A.18.) and “mtCO2e” (Part B, Section VIII.A.17.)
improves the understanding of the terms.

Further, these revisions will include corrections to any typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-
103(12.5) are met by including specific information and making the regulations available
because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be
unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission included reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 7.

Additional Considerations



                                                                                        762
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Clean Air Act does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law requires Colorado to develop a plan that includes
standards of performance for all designated facilities addressed in an Emission
Guideline. Therefore, the Commission adopted certain revisions to Regulation Number
7 to reduce GHG in Colorado.

These revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
Section 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines

       (I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 7 address equipment and operations
               in the oil and gas sector. NSPS KKK, NSPS OOOO, NSPS OOOOa, and
               NSPS OOOOb may also apply to the above listed operations and
               equipment. However, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 apply on a
               broader basis.

       (II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that
               they largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to
               comply. The proposed state only requirements are technology- and
               performance- based that allow for maximum flexibility for demonstrating
               compliance.

       (III)   The CAA requires Colorado to develop a state plan that includes
               standards of performance for designated facilities in an Emission
               Guideline. EG OOOOc was not determined taking into account concerns
               unique to Colorado. EPA develops NSPS, Emission Guidelines, and
               NESHAP considering national information and data, not Colorado specific
               issues or concerns.

       (IV)    Colorado must develop a plan that includes standards of performance for
               all designated facilities addressed in an Emission Guideline. These current
               revisions may improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
               with new requirements insofar as the revisions adopted by the
               Commission align, where possible, with existing requirements and may


                                                                                           763
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

             prevent or reduce the need to implement additional, more burdensome
             requirements.

     (V)     Colorado must submit a complete state plan to EPA by January 2027 and
             require implementation of standards of performance no later than March
             2029. There is no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame
             for submitting a state plan related to the EG OOOOc designated facilities.

     (VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish a flexible framework for
             compliance and allow for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

     (VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 7 establish reasonable equity for
             owners and operators subject to these rules by providing the same
             standards for similarly situated and sized sources.

     (VIII) If Colorado does not submit a state plan that includes performance
             standards for the designated facilities in the EG OOOOc, Colorado would
             be subject to a federal plan implemented by EPA. These outcomes could
             result in more stringent federal requirements and/or requirements
             conflicting with current state requirements and may subject others to
             increased costs.

     (IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 7 include
             monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate,
             where possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

     (X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to
             Regulation Number 7. Some of the revisions expand upon requirements
             already applicable.

     (XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the revisions to Regulation
             Number 7 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

     (XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in GHG to address the
             Emission Guideline. The Commission determined that the Division’s
             proposal was reasonable and cost-effective. However, a no action
             alternative would very likely result in the need for much more stringent


                                                                                        764
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

                requirements to reduce ozone and subject the state to a federal plan
                implementing the model rule requirements in the Emission Guideline.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 7, the Commission has taken
into consideration each of the factors set forth in CRS § 25-7-109(1)(b).

To the extent that CRS § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

        (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed,
                and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered
                all information submitted by interested parties.

        (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
                demonstrable reduction of GHG emissions.

        (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
                reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
                costs to implement and comply with the rules.

        (IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
                results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the
                necessary reduction in air pollution.

        (V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most
                cost-effective manner.

II.     May 21-22, 2026 (Part B, Section V.)
Revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq. (the
State Air Act or Act), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural
Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis



                                                                                            765
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission revised requirements for sources subject to the annual emissions
reporting requirements in Part B, Section V. to specify such reporting as an Emissions
Reporting Notice. This change reduces duplicative emissions reporting related to
revised APEN reporting requirements. And the Commission repealed the requirement
for the Division to provide an annual summary report related to oil and gas sector
emissions and operations.

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of Title 25, Article 7. Section 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), C.R.S., directs the
promulgation of a state implementation plan that meets requirements of the federal act
and that will be revised when necessary or appropriate.

Section 25-7-109.5, C.R.S., directs the Commission to consider the adoption of rules
that ensure annual reports on toxic air contaminants are submitted to the Division and
may require additional types of information to be included in annual toxic emissions
reports submitted to the Division for operations and emissions occurring in calendar
year 2025 and each calendar year thereafter. Sections 25-7-106(6), 25-7-114.1., and
25-7-140, C.R.S., authorize the Commission to require owners or operators of air
pollution sources to record and report air pollutant emissions.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 7 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Reporting

Section V.D. annual report

The Commission removed a reporting requirement in Regulation Number 7, Part B,
Section V.D. that required the Division to annually summarize emissions data and
program implementation information and provide a report to the Commission and the


                                                                                            766
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Energy and Carbon Management Commission (ECMC). This reporting requirement was
adopted in 2021. However, the information summarized in this reporting requirement
was (e.g., leak detection and repair reports) or has since been made available on the
Division’s website (e.g., annual reported emissions, early production monitoring,
intensity). In addition, briefings on some of the topics (e.g., progress towards
greenhouse gas goals, ozone) are regularly on the Commission’s long-term calendar.
Much of this information is also available in ECMC’s cumulative impacts reports.
Therefore, a summary report is no longer necessary because the data is compiled and
the information is made available through other means. However, the Commission
understands that the Division will continue to make information about oil and gas annual
emissions, leak detection and repair program, pre- and early production air quality
monitoring, greenhouse gas intensity, ambient air quality data, and air toxics monitoring
data publicly available through means such as websites, briefings, and inclusion in the
Commission’s annual report.

Annual emissions reporting and Emissions Reporting Notice

In April 2025, the Commission adopted new and revised reporting requirements for
certain sources to annually report estimated emissions. These requirements were
adopted in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. for certain non-oil and gas sector
sources and in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. for upstream and midstream oil
and gas sector sources. The revisions expanded toxic air contaminant (TAC) reporting
requirements, under the directive of House Bill (HB) 22-1244, and included annual
emissions reporting of criteria pollutants.

The Commission now adopted revisions to streamline emissions reporting requirements
by specifying that the annual emissions reports required in Regulation Number 3, Part
A, Section IX.A.1.d. and Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. are Emissions
Reporting Notices and will satisfy the requirements to submit revised APENs because of
a significant change in actual emissions (see Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
II.C.1.a.) or solely prior to expiration (see Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
II.C.1.e.). This streamlining will begin in 2027 for the Regulation Number 7, Part B,
Section V. annual emissions reporters for calendar year 2026 emissions. The



                                                                                        767
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission adopted these revisions to Regulation Number 7 to align with the
Emissions Reporting Notices framework adopted in the associated revisions to
Regulation Number 3.

Further, these revisions include corrections to any typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-
103(12.5), C.R.S., are met by including specific information and making the regulations
available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 7.

Additional Considerations

The revisions concerning emissions or other reporting do not exceed or differ from the
requirements of the federal act or rules. Therefore, the requirements of § 25-7-
110.5(5)(a), C.R.S., do not apply. The revisions to reporting are not intended to reduce
air pollution but to the extent that the requirements of § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., apply to the
revisions, and after considering all of the information in the record, the Commission
hereby makes the determination that:

       (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed,
               and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered
               all information submitted by interested parties.

       (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
               demonstrable reduction of emissions.

       (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
               reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
               costs to implement and comply with the rules.




                                                                                          768
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

     (IV)   The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
            results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the
            necessary reduction in air pollution.

     (V)    The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most
            cost-effective manner.




                                                                                        769
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                           5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Editor’s Notes
History

Entire rule eff. 01/30/2009.
Rules I.A.1, XVII, XIX.L eff. 02/14/2011
Rules II.D, XII.D XII.H, XVII.D, XIX.M eff. 02/15/2013.
Rules II.B, VI.B.2.a.(i)(E), IX.A.12.a.(x), XVII XVIII, XIX.B, XIX.N eff. 04/14/2014.
Rules I.A.1., X.A, X.E, XII.A.3, XII.C.1, XII.C.2.a(ii)(B), XII.E, XII.F.3.d, XII.F.5.a, XII.G,
       XII.H.3-6, XII.I, XIII, XVI, XIX, XX, XX.O eff. 01/14/2017.
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2017.
Rules XVI, XIX, XX.Q eff. 09/14/2018.
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2019.
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2020.
Part D rules II, IV-VI, Part E, Part F rule T eff. 11/14/2020.
Part B rule IV.B 3, Part C rules I.1.A.1-1.A.11, I.O, Part D rules II.E.4, II.E.6-II.E.9, Part
       E rules II.A, III.A-III.B, Part F rule U eff. 02/14/2021.
Part D rules III.B, III.C.3.a, III.C.4, Part F rule V eff. 04/14/2021.
Part C rules I.A.6.b, I.L.1.a, I.L.1.b, I.L.1.c, I.L.2-I.L.5, Part D rule III.C.4.e.(i)(D)(3)(b),
       Part E rules II.A.1.c, II.A.2.e-f, II.A.3.p, II.A.4, II.A.4.b.(iii), II.A.4.e.(ii), II.A.4.g,
       II.A.5, II.A.6.a.(iii), II.A.6.b.(viii)(C)-(E), II.A.6.c.(ii), Part F rule W eff. 09/14/2021.
Part D rules I.E.3, I.J.1.g-k, II.A, II.B.1, II.B.2.f-j, II.B.3.b-d, II.C.1.d.(ii)-(v), II.C.2.a,
       II.C.2.b.(ii)(I), II.C.3.b, II.E.3.a.(iii), II.E.3.c-e, Table 3, II.E.4.a-b, II.E.4.d-g, Tables
       4, 5, II.E.6.e, II.E.6.g, II.E.7.a.(iv), II.E.7.b, II.E.8.c, II.E.8.i.(iii)-(iv), II.F- II.I.1.b,
       III.C.3.a, III.C.3.d, III.C.4.e.(i)(D), III.D- III.F, V.B.1, V.C.2-V.D.3, VI.C.2.b.(x), Part
       F rule X eff. 01/30/2022.
Part D rules II.C.1.d.(ii)-(v), II.C.3.e repealed eff. 02/14/2022.
Part A rules I.A.1, I.B.1, I.B.2, II.A.13-17, II.C.1, Appendix A, Part B rules IV.B.2.a.(i)(D),
       IV.B.3.h, IV.C.2.d, IV.D.2.a.(i), IV.D.2.c, VI.A.2.a.(iii)(B), VI.B.7, VI.C.3, Part C
       rules I.A.3.a, I.L.4, I.N.7, I.O.2, I.P, II.D.2.a, II.E.3.b.(iii)(A)-(B), II.F.1,
       II.F.5.c.(i)(A)-(B), IV.A.4, IV.B.5.c.(iii)(A)-(B), IV.C, Part D rules I.A, I.B.7-33, I.D.1-
       I.D.3, I.E, I.E.2.c.(ix), I.E.3.a, I.F-I.H, I.J.1.a, I.J.1.h, I.J.2.a-I.J.2.b, I.K.1, I.K.2,
       I.L.1-I.L.2, I.L.7, I.M, II.B.5, II.C.5.a, II.H.1.c.(vii), II.H.3.c, II.H.3.f.(i), III.B.10,
       III.B.12, III.B.14, III.C.1, III.C.2, III.D, III.E, Part E rules I.D.1.b, I.D.4.a.(i)(B),
       I.D.4.c, I.D.5.d.(ii), I.D.5.e.(iv)(D), I.D.5.g.(iii), II, II.A.1, II.A.2.e, II.A.2.f, II.A.4,
       II.A.4.a.(v)- II.A.4.a.(vii), II.A.4.b.(ii), II.A.4.d, II.A.4.e, II.A.4.g.(iii), II.A.5.a.(iv),
       II.A.5.a.(v), II.A.5.b, II.A.6.a, II.A.6.b.(viii)(C)-(G), II.A.6.c.(ii), II.A.7.f.(iii), III.C,
       V.A.6.b, VI-VIII, Part F rule Y eff. 02/14/2023.
Entire rule, Part C rules Y, Z, AA eff. 06/14/2023.
Part B rules II.A.35-II.A.46, II.B.2.f.(ii)(G), II.B.2.g, II.B.2.i.(x), V.B.1, V.C.2.f, V.D.1.a.(iv),
       VIII.A, VIII.E.1.b, VIII.E.2, VIII.F-VIII.G.5.c, rules VIII.E.4, VIII.F.1 repealed, Part C
       rule BB eff. 09/14/2023.



                                                                                                   770
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-9
Air Quality Control Commission

Part A rules I.A.1.c, II.C, Part B rules I.L.7, II.E.9.b, VI, VI.A, VI.E, Part C rule CC eff.
       02/14/2024.
Part A rule I.A.1.c, Part B rules III.C.4, III.C.4.c, V.A.3, V.C.2.i-V.C.2.hh, VII.A, VII.B,
       VII.F, VII.G, Part C rule DD eff. 02/14/2025. Part B rules VII.C-VII.E repealed eff.
       02/14/2025.
Part B rules I.B.19, I.C.1.a, I.F.2, I.G.1, I.H.7, I.I, II.A.11, II.A.18, III.B.2, II.C.2.a, II.E.3,
       II.E.4, II.G.1, II.G.3, II.H, II.I,.1, III.A-C, III.F, III.G, V.B.1.c.(i), VI.A, VI.C, VI.E.1,
       VIII.A.7, VIII.C.1, Part C rule DD eff. 04/14/2025.
Part B rules V.B.1, V.D.1-V.D.3, Part C rule DD eff. 06/14/2025.
Part A II.A.4, Part B I.A.5, I.A.6, I.B.24-34, I.L.1.c, I.l.7, III.C.4, III.C.4.c, VI.A.10,
       VI.E.1.c, VI.E.2.e-h. VI.E.4, VI.E.5.a, VII.A.7.a, VIII.G, Part C GG eff. 01/14/2026.
Entire rule, Part C rule FF eff. 04/14/2026.
Part B rules V.B.1.d-k, V.D.1-3, VI.E.5.a eff. 07/15/2026.
Part B rules V.A, V.B.2, V.C, V.C.2.a, V.C.2.c, V.C.2.d.(iv), V.C.2.d.(vi), V.C.2.f, V.C.2.i,
       V.C.2.k, V.C.2.o, V.C.2.q, V.C.2.t, V.C.2.y, V.C.2.dd-ee, V.D, Part C HH eff.
       07/15/2026.




                                                                                                 771
