CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 31

    Control of Methane Emissions from Municipal Solid Waste Landfills

    5 CCR 1001-35
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    ______________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A       Applicability and Definitions

    PART B     Waste-in-Place Reporting and Gas Collection and Control System
         Determination

    PART C       Gas Collection and Control System Requirements

    PART D     Surface Emissions Monitoring and Gas Collection and Control System
         Leak Inspection Requirements

    PART E       Remote Methane Monitoring Requirements

    PART F       Cover Requirements

    PART G       Alternative Compliance Options

    PART H       Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

    PART I       Test Methods and Procedures

    PART J       Severability

    PART K       Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

    ______________________________________________________________________




                                                                                     1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes § 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated by
reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. Some
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
later amendments.

PART A         Applicability and Definitions

I.      Purpose

        I.A.   This regulation establishes methane emission reduction requirements for
               municipal solid waste landfills in the State of Colorado. This regulation is
               intended to support greenhouse gas emission reductions identified in
               Colorado Revised Statutes, §25-7-102(2)(g).

II.     Applicability

II.A.   This regulation applies to all municipal solid waste landfills that have received
        solid waste after November 8, 1987, excluding those sources located on tribal
        lands that are not subject to regulation by the Commission.

II.B.   The owner or operator of a municipal solid waste landfill that closed before
        November 8, 1987 and has a gas collection and control system installed must
        only comply with the requirement to install and operate a biofilter following the
        requirements of Part C, Sections III.C.1. - III.C.4., and III.D, upon removal or
        permanent shut down of the gas control device at the landfill.

II.C.   Any municipal solid waste landfill owned by a municipal or county government
        that has less than 8 million short tons of waste-in-place as of December 31,
        2025, is allowed three additional years to comply with any requirements that are
        based on specific dates for compliance in this regulation or based on the
        effective date of the regulation.

II.D.   Any third-party entity that purchases or receives landfill gas from an owner or
        operator of an MSW landfill and operates any stationary equipment for the
        treatment or combustion of landfill gas from an MSW landfill subject to this
        regulation is responsible for compliance with the applicable requirements of this
        regulation.

III.    Exemptions

III.A. This regulation does not apply to the following landfills:




                                                                                              2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

      III.A.1. Landfills that are regulated under the Resource Conservation and
               Recovery Act (RCRA) Subtitle C or the Comprehensive Environmental
               Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. Chapter 103.

      III.A.2. Landfills that receive only construction and demolition debris, inert
               material, or non-decomposable solid waste.

      III.A.3. Municipal solid waste landfills with no gas collection and control system
               installed that closed before October 31, 1993 and have:

             III.A.3.a. Less than 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place; or

             III.A.3.b. A design capacity of less than 2,750,000 short tons (2.5 million
                     megagrams) and 3,260,000 cubic yards (2.5 million cubic meters).

IV.   Definitions

IV.A. “Active municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill" means a municipal solid waste
      landfill that is accepting or is permitted to accept municipal solid waste for
      disposal and has not been closed in accordance with applicable statutes,
      regulations, and local ordinances, and does not meet the definition of an inactive
      MSW landfill.

IV.B. “Biocover” means a material layer such as compost that has or promotes the
      growth of methanotrophs or methane-utilizing bacteria and is used as cover or
      incorporated into a cover at an MSW landfill to oxidize methane in landfill gas.

IV.C. “Biofilter” means a container with material layer(s) that have or promote the
      growth of methanotrophs or methane-utilizing bacteria that oxidize methane in
      landfill gas. A biofilter is connected to a gas collection system or gas venting
      system at an MSW landfill.

IV.D. “Bioreactor” means an MSW landfill or portion of an MSW landfill where any
      liquid other than leachate (leachate includes landfill gas condensate) is added in
      a controlled fashion into the waste mass (often in combination with recirculating
      leachate) to reach a minimum average moisture content of at least 40 percent by
      weight to accelerate or enhance the anaerobic (without oxygen) biodegradation
      of the waste.

IV.E. “Closed municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill” means a municipal solid waste
      landfill that is no longer accepting solid waste for disposal and has
      documentation that the closure was conducted in accordance with the applicable
      statutes, regulations, and local ordinances in effect at the time of closure.




                                                                                           3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.F. “Component” means any equipment that is part of the gas collection and control
      system and that contains or contacts, or may contain, landfill gas including, but
      not limited to, collectors, wells, pipes, flanges, fittings, valves, flame arrestors,
      knock-out drums, sampling ports, blowers, compressors, connectors, and
      leachate cleanout risers.

IV.G. “Component leak” means any detection of methane at or above the applicable
      leak threshold for corrective action specified in this regulation from equipment or
      components that are part of a gas collection and control system using an
      approved monitoring method under this regulation.

IV.H. “Construction and demolition debris” means waste that is generated from
      construction, remodeling, repairs, or demolition of buildings, pavements, and
      other structures which includes but is not limited to, lumber, bricks, carpets,
      ceramics, sheetrock, metals, drywall, window glass, metal and plastic piping,
      paint and any other non-hazardous materials resulting from construction and
      demolition operations.

IV.I.   “Continuous Operation” means that the gas collection and control system is
        always in operation, the existing gas collection wells are operating under vacuum
        while maintaining landfill gas flow, and the collected landfill gas is processed by a
        gas control system 24 hours per day.

IV.J. “Controlled municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill” means any MSW landfill at
      which a gas collection and control system is installed.

IV.K. “Corrective action analysis” means a description of all reasonable interim and
      long-term measures, if any, that are available, and an explanation of why the
      selected corrective action(s) is/are the best alternative(s), including, but not
      limited to, considerations of cost effectiveness, technical feasibility, safety, and
      secondary impacts.

IV.L. “Designated Representative” means an individual selected by an agreement
      binding on the owner or operator and acting in accordance with the certification
      statement in Part H, Section II.A.

IV.M. “Destruction efficiency” means a measure of the ability of a gas control device to
      combust, transform, or otherwise prevent emissions of methane from entering
      the atmosphere.

IV.N. “Disproportionately impacted community” means those communities that meet
      the definition contained in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D) and (F)-(G), C.R.S. These
      communities are identified as any census block group identified in the
      Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November 2024) after selecting
      the criteria for "Mobile home communities", "Low-income population above 40%",
      "People of color population above 40%", "Housing cost-burdened population
      above 50%", "Linguistically isolated population above 20%", or "Colorado
      EnviroScreen Percentile score above 80”.



                                                                                              4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.O. "Enclosed combustion device" for purposes of this Regulation 31 means any
      combustion device where landfill gas is combusted in an enclosed chamber
      generally using a limited supply of combustion air. This may include, but is not
      limited to enclosed flares, steam-generating boilers, re-boilers, heaters, internal
      combustion engines, or gas turbines.

IV.P. "Energy recovery device" means any combustion device that uses landfill gas to
      recover energy in the form of steam or electricity including, but not limited to, gas
      turbines, internal combustion engines, boilers, and boiler-to-steam turbine
      systems.

IV.Q. “Final cover” means permanent cover placed over solid wastes at an MSW
      landfill that has been approved by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
      Management Division.

IV.R. “Gas collection device” means components of a gas collection and control
      system that are designed to remove landfill gas from the waste mass via the
      application of vacuum. Gas collection devices include, but are not limited to,
      vertical wells, horizontal collectors, bottom-up collectors, or caisson wells.

IV.S. “Gas control device” means any device used in a gas control system to dispose
      of or control collected landfill gas, including, but not limited to, enclosed flares,
      internal combustion engines, boilers and boiler-to-steam turbine systems, fuel
      cells, and gas turbines.

IV.T. “Gas collection system” means any system that employs various gas collection
      devices and connected piping and gas mover equipment.

IV.U. “Gas collection and control system (GCCS)” means any system consisting of a
      gas collection system and a gas control system. Passive venting or carbon
      adsorption systems, which allow methane to escape untreated into the
      atmosphere at an MSW landfill, are not a gas collection and control system.

IV.V. “Gas control system” means any system that disposes of or treats collected
      landfill gas by one or more of the following means: combustion, gas treatment for
      subsequent sale, or sale for processing offsite, including for transportation fuel
      and injection into a natural gas pipeline.

IV.W. “Gas mover equipment” means the equipment (i.e., fan, blower, compressor)
      used to transport landfill gas through the header system.

IV.X. “Inactive area” means a separate area of an MSW landfill in which solid waste is
      no longer being placed. The area must be separated from other areas of the
      landfill to ensure that the landfill gas does not migrate between active and
      inactive areas.




                                                                                              5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.Y. “Inactive MSW landfill” means an MSW landfill that has not accepted waste for
      more than one year, is not yet closed, and is unattended due to inactivity, which
      has been documented by the owner or operator of the landfill.

IV.Z. "Inert material" means non-watersoluble and non-putrescible solids together with
      such minor amounts and types of other materials as will not significantly affect
      the inert nature of such solids. The term includes, but is not limited to, earth,
      sand, gravel rock, concrete which has been in a hardened state for at least sixty
      days, masonry, asphalt paving fragments, and other inert solids.

IV.AA. “Intermediate cover” means at least one foot (1') of earthen material or other
       suitable material placed over solid wastes in areas left temporarily unused for at
       least one month, but not finally closed, at an MSW landfill.

IV.BB. “Landfill gas” means any untreated, raw gas derived through a natural process
       from the decomposition of organic waste deposited in an MSW landfill, from the
       evolution of volatile species in the waste, or from chemical reactions of
       substances in the waste.

IV.CC. "Landfill surface" means the area of an MSW landfill under which decomposable
       solid waste has been placed, excluding the working face.

IV.DD. “Leachate” means liquid that has passed through or had contact with solid
       wastes at an MSW landfill and may contain soluble, miscible, or suspended
       constituents removed from the wastes.

IV.EE. “Leachate recirculation” means the practice of taking the leachate collected from
       the MSW landfill and reapplying it to the landfill by any one of a variety of
       methods, including pre-wetting of the waste, direct discharge into the working
       face, spraying, infiltration ponds, vertical injection wells, horizontal gravity
       distribution systems, and pressure distribution systems, as approved by the
       Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division in the landfill’s
       Engineering Design and Operations Plan.

IV.FF. “Lower explosive limit” means the lowest percent, by volume, of a mixture of
       explosive gas or gases in air that will propagate a flame at 25ºC (77ºF) and at
       standard atmospheric pressure.

IV.GG.         "Municipal solid waste landfill" or “MSW landfill” means an entire disposal
      facility in a contiguous geographical space where household waste is placed in or
      on land. An MSW landfill may also receive other types of Resource Conservation
      and Recovery Act Subtitle D wastes such as commercial solid waste,
      nonhazardous sludge, conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste, and
      industrial solid waste. Portions of an MSW landfill may be separated by access
      roads. An MSW landfill may be publicly or privately owned by one or more
      entities. An MSW landfill may be a new MSW landfill, an existing MSW landfill, or
      a lateral expansion.




                                                                                            6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.HH. “Nondecomposable or nondegradable solid waste” means any waste that does
       not decompose through chemical breakdown or microbiological activity to form
       landfill gas. Examples are, but are not limited to, concrete, municipal waste
       combustor ash, metals, earth, rock, brick, glass, ceramics, clay products, inert
       material, slag waste, asbestos waste, and waste tire chips.

IV.II. “Nonrepeatable, momentary readings” means indications of the presence of
       methane, which persist for less than five seconds and do not recur while the
       methane monitoring device detector is monitoring the same location.

IV.JJ. “Open Flare” means a combustor that operates with an open flame without
       enclosure to combust landfill gas. For purposes of this definition, a shroud is not
       considered an enclosure.

IV.KK. “Operator” means any person or entity that:

       IV.KK.1. Operates the MSW landfill and/or controls the operations of the MSW
             landfill.

       IV.KK.2. Is responsible for complying with any federal, state, or local
             requirements relating to methane emissions from real property used for
             MSW landfill purposes and subject to this regulation.

       IV.KK.3. Operates any stationary equipment for the collection of landfill gas at an
             MSW landfill;

       IV.KK.4. Purchases or receives landfill gas from an owner or operator of an MSW
             landfill and operates any stationary equipment for the treatment of landfill
             gas; or

       IV.KK.5. Purchases or receives untreated landfill gas from an owner or operator
             of an MSW landfill and operates any stationary equipment for the
             combustion of landfill gas.

IV.LL. “Owner” means any person or entity that:

       IV.LL.1. Holds title to the real property on which the MSW landfill is located,
              including but not limited to title held by joint tenancy, tenancy in common,
              community property, life estate, estate for years, lease, sublease, or
              assignment, except title held solely as security for a debt such as
              mortgage.

       IV.LL.2. Is responsible for complying with any federal, state, or local
              requirements relating to methane emissions from real property used for
              MSW landfill purposes and subject to this regulation;

       IV.LL.3. Owns any stationary equipment for the collection of landfill gas at an
              MSW landfill, excluding lessors of such equipment; or



                                                                                             7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         IV.LL.4.        Purchases or receives landfill gas from an owner or operator of an
                MSW landfill and operates any stationary equipment for the treatment of
                landfill gas;

         IV.LL.5.     Purchases or receives untreated landfill gas from an owner or
                operator of an MSW landfill and operates any stationary equipment for the
                combustion of landfill gas; or

         IV.LL.6. Otherwise owns an MSW landfill or part of an MSW landfill.

IV.MM.       “Petroleum contaminated soils” means soils contaminated by leaking oil
     and gas storage tanks, as well as soils impacted by oil and gas operations and
     spills.

IV.NN. “Ppm-m” means parts per million meter.

IV.OO.         “Ppmv” means parts per million by volume.

IV.PP. “Remote methane monitoring” means methane emissions monitoring of an MSW
       landfill conducted off-site from a landfill using a Division-approved technology for
       such a purpose, including on satellite, aircraft, or mobile monitoring platform, but
       not unmanned aerial systems or unmanned aerial vehicles.

IV.QQ.      “Residential community” means an area where more than ten (10)
      residential building units are grouped together within a one (1) mile radius.

IV.RR. “Responsible Official” means the definition of that term found in the Air Quality
       Control Commission’s Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2 (effective
       December 15, 2024).

IV.SS. “Root cause analysis” means an assessment conducted through a process of
       investigation to determine the primary cause, and any other contributing causes,
       of positive pressure or a temperature exceedance at a wellhead.

IV.TT.          “Site boundary” means the outermost perimeter of a solid waste disposal
         site and facility, such as an MSW landfill, as designated pursuant to the Colorado
         Solid Waste Disposal Sites and Facilities Act, as amended.




                                                                                              8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.UU. “Solid waste” means any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
       water supply treatment plant, air pollution control facility, or other discarded
       material; including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material
       resulting from industrial operations, commercial operations or community
       activities. “Solid waste” does not include any solid or dissolved materials in
       domestic sewage, or agricultural wastes, or solid or dissolved materials in
       irrigation return flows, or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to
       permits under the provisions of the "Colorado Water Quality Control Act", Title
       25, Article 8, CRS or materials handled at facilities licensed pursuant to the
       provisions on “Radiation Control Act” in Title 25, Article 11, CRS. “Solid waste”
       does not include: (a) Materials handled at facilities licensed pursuant to the
       provisions on radiation control in Article 11 of Title 25, C.R.S.; or (b) Excluded
       scrap metal that is being recycled; or(c) Shredded circuit boards that are being
       recycled.

IV.VV. “Tier 2 evaluation” means a site-specific sampling and analysis procedure to
       determine the average methane concentration in landfill gas at an MSW landfill
       following the requirements of 40 CFR § 60.35f(a)(3) (August 29, 2016), except
       Method 25C must be followed for sampling the gas and Method 3C must be used
       to determine methane concentrations in the gas.

IV.WW. “Treatment system” means a system that filters, de-waters, and compresses
     landfill gas.

IV.XX. "Waste-in-place" means the total amount of solid waste placed in an MSW landfill
       estimated in short tons. The solid waste density is assumed to be 1,300 pounds
       per cubic yard, and the decomposable fraction is assumed to be 70 percent by
       weight, unless the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management
       Division and the local authority approves alternative values.

IV.YY. “Well Raising” means an MSW landfill activity where an existing gas collection
       well is temporarily disconnected from a vacuum source, and the non-perforated
       pipe attached to the well, or perforated pipe if a caisson well, is extended
       vertically to allow the addition of a new layer of solid waste or the final cover; or is
       extended horizontally to allow the horizontal extension of an existing layer of
       solid waste or cover material. The extended pipe (well extension) is then re-
       connected in order to continue collecting gas from that well.

IV.ZZ. “Working face” means that portion of an MSW landfill where solid wastes are
       actively unloaded, placed, compacted and covered, at any time of operation.




                                                                                             9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

PART B      Waste-in-Place Reporting and Gas Collection and Control System
Determination

I.     Waste-in-Place Reporting

I.A.   The owner or operator of an active, inactive, or closed MSW landfill must submit
       a waste-in-place report to the Division for waste-in-place at the end of the
       calendar year no later than March 31st of the following year pursuant to Part H,
       Section II.A.1., except for the initial waste-in-place report required by this
       regulation, which must be submitted to the Division no later than June 30, 2026.
       If the requirement of Part B, Section I.A.2.a. applies any time between January
       and March of 2026, the waste-in-place report does not have to be submitted any
       earlier than June 30, 2026. If the MSW landfill has more than one owner or
       operator, the waste-in-place report must be for all waste in the landfill.

       I.A.1. If the reported waste-in-place is greater than or equal to 450,000 short
              tons, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of Part B,
              Section II.A.

       I.A.2. If the reported waste-in-place for an active MSW landfill is less than
              450,000 short tons, the owner or operator must track and record total
              waste-in-place at the landfill on a monthly basis and submit subsequent
              waste-in-place reports to the Division by March 31 of each year for the
              period ending December 31 of the prior year pursuant to Part H, Section
              II.A.1. These reports must be submitted until one of the following is met:

             I.A.2.a.      The waste-in-place at the MSW landfill meets or exceeds
                    450,000 short tons of waste-in-place upon which the owner or
                    operator must submit a waste-in-place report to the Division within
                    90 calendar days of the landfill meeting or exceeding 450,000 short
                    tons of waste-in-place and comply with the requirements of Part B,
                    Section II.B.

             I.A.2.b.        The MSW landfill becomes an inactive MSW landfill and its
                    waste-in-place is less than 450,000 short tons upon becoming an
                    inactive MSW landfill. The owner or operator of the inactive MSW
                    landfill must submit a waste-in-place report to the Division by March
                    31 after the year in which the landfill became an inactive MSW
                    landfill, after which no further waste-in-place reports must be
                    submitted to the Division unless the landfill becomes an active
                    MSW landfill again.

             I.A.2.c.       The owner or operator of the MSW landfill submits a Closure
                     Notification pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.17.




                                                                                       10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        I.A.3. If the reported waste-in-place for a closed or inactive municipal solid waste
               landfill is less than 450,000 short tons as of December 31, 2025, no
               further waste-in-place reports must be submitted to the Division, unless
               the landfill is an inactive landfill that becomes an active landfill after
               December 31, 2025 upon which the requirement of Section I.A.2. applies.

II.  Methane Generation Rate and Gas Collection and Control System
Determination

II.A.   The owner or operator of an MSW landfill that reaches or exceeds 450,000 short
        tons of waste-in-place on or before December 31, 2025 must calculate the
        landfill’s methane generation rate based on the waste-in-place at the end of
        calendar year 2025 using the procedures in Part I, Section III., and submit a
        methane generation rate report to the Division no later than June 30, 2026
        pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.2.

        II.A.1. If the calculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons (732
                short tons) per year for an active MSW landfill, the owner or operator must
                recalculate the methane generation rate based on waste-in-place at the
                landfill at the end of each subsequent calendar year and submit a
                methane generation rate report to the Division by March 31 after the end
                of the calendar year.

        II.A.2. If the calculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons (732
                short tons) per year for an inactive MSW landfill, no further methane
                generation reports are required unless the landfill becomes an active
                MSW landfill.

        II.A.3. If the calculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons (732
                short tons) per year for a closed MSW landfill, no further methane
                generation reports are required so long as a closure notification for the
                landfill has been submitted to the Division pursuant to Part H, Section
                II.A.17.

II.B.   The owner or operator of an MSW landfill that reaches or exceeds 450,000 short
        tons of waste-in-place after December 31, 2025 must calculate the landfill’s
        methane generation rate using the procedures in Part I, Section III., based on
        waste-in-place at the end of the most recent full calendar year and submit a
        methane generation rate report to the Division pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.2.




                                                                                         11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.B.1. If the MSW landfill reaches or exceeds 450,000 short tons of waste-in-
                place at any time during the first or second quarters of a calendar year,
                the owner or operator must calculate the landfill’s methane generation rate
                based on waste-in-place at the end of the most recent full calendar year
                and submit the methane generation rate report within 90 calendar days of
                the landfill reaching or exceeding 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place. If
                the MSW landfill reaches or exceeds 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place
                at any time during the first quarter of 2026, the methane generation rate
                report may be submitted no later than June 30, 2026.

        II.B.2. If, the MSW landfill reaches or exceeds 450,000 short tons of waste-in-
                place during the third or fourth quarters of a calendar year, the owner or
                operator must complete the methane generation rate calculation at the
                end of the calendar year based on waste-in-place at the landfill at the end
                of that year and submit the methane generation rate report by March 31 of
                the following year.

        II.B.3. If the calculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons (732
                short tons) per year, the owner or operator must follow the requirement of
                Part B, Section II.A.1.

II.C.   If an MSW landfill becomes an inactive or closed MSW landfill after December
        31, 2025 and its most recent calculated methane generation rate is less than 664
        metric tons (732 short tons) per year, the owner or operator of the MSW landfill
        must recalculate the landfill’s methane generation rate based on the waste-in-
        place at the end of the calendar year in which the landfill became an inactive or
        closed MSW landfill using the procedures in Part I, Section III., and submit a
        methane generation rate report to the Division pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.2.,
        by March 31 of the following calendar year.

        II.C.1. If the recalculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons
                (732 short tons) per year for an inactive MSW landfill, no further methane
                generation reports are required unless the landfill becomes an active
                MSW landfill.

        II.C.2. If the recalculated methane generation rate is less than 664 metric tons
                (732 short tons) per year for a closed MSW landfill, no further methane
                generation reports are required so long as a closure notification for the
                MSW landfill has been submitted to the Division pursuant to Part H,
                Section II.A.17.

II.D.   If the methane generation rate for an MSW landfill is greater than or equal to 664
        metric tons (732 short tons) per year but less than 1,814 metric tons (2,000 short
        tons) per year, the owner or operator of the MSW landfill must:




                                                                                            12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    II.D.1. Comply with the requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas
            collection and control system and meet all other applicable requirements
            of this regulation, or meet the requirements of Part B, Section II.D.2. or
            II.D.3.

    II.D.2. Conduct a Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill within 180 calendar days of
            meeting or exceeding the methane generation rate in Part B, Section II.D.
            to determine the average methane concentration of the landfill gas. If the
            owner or operator of the landfill conducted a Tier 2 evaluation of the
            landfill between January 1, 2020 and January 1, 2026, or in the 36 months
            prior to the applicability date of this regulation for the landfill, that
            evaluation must be used to determine the average methane concentration
            before completing another Tier 2 evaluation. If more than one Tier 2
            evaluation of the landfill was conducted between January 1, 2020 and the
            applicability date of this regulation for the landfill, the most recent Tier 2
            evaluation must be used.

           II.D.2.a. If a Tier 2 evaluation shows an average methane concentration of
                   30% or greater in the landfill gas, the owner or operator must
                   comply with the requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas
                   collection and control system and meet all other applicable
                   requirements of this regulation, or follow the requirement of Part B,
                   Section II.D.3.

           II.D.2.b. If a Tier 2 evaluation shows an average methane concentration of
                   less than 30% in the landfill gas, the owner or operator must
                   complete another Tier 2 evaluation no later than 36 months after
                   the prior Tier 2 evaluation. If a Tier 2 evaluation that was conducted
                   between January 1, 2020 and January 1, 2026 shows an average
                   methane concentration of less than 30% in the landfill gas, the next
                   Tier 2 evaluation must be completed within 36 months of the
                   effective date of the regulation for the landfill or within 60 months
                   after the initial Tier 2 evaluation, whichever is sooner.




                                                                                       13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    II.D.3. Complete quarterly surface emissions monitoring beginning no later than
            90 calendar days after the methane generation rate report is required to
            be submitted to the Division using an approved monitoring method in Part
            D, Sections I.A.1., I.A.2., I.A.3., I.A.4., or I.A.5., and following the
            requirements of Part D, Sections I.B., I.C., and I.D. Prior to April 1, 2027,
            owners or operators of MSW landfills that do not meet the applicability
            requirement in Part A, Section II.C., may conduct surface emissions
            monitoring at 100-foot spacing, upon which date the requirements of Part
            D, Section I.B.2., apply. For surface emissions monitoring conducted
            pursuant to this Section II.D.3 only, the owner or operator must submit to
            the Division a surface emissions monitoring notification at least 15
            calendar days prior to each quarterly monitoring event indicating the
            planned date for monitoring, and a surface emissions monitoring
            demonstration report within 30 calendar days after the quarterly
            monitoring has been completed, including all re-monitoring event(s) if
            required, pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.3. If the monitoring date
            changes, the owner or operator may proceed with the new monitoring date
            so long as the owner or operator notifies the Division of the change as
            soon as possible in advance of the new monitoring date and identifies the
            reason for the change. The quarterly monitoring must be separated by at
            least 15 calendar days from one quarter to the next unless approved by
            the Division under Part G.

           II.D.3.a. If any measured emissions meet or exceed the limits specified in
                   Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., or the limit for corrective action
                   specified for an approved alternative method under Part D,
                   Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5., the owner or operator of the MSW landfill
                   must complete repair and re-monitoring according to Part D,
                   Sections I.C.2.c., I.C.2.d., and I.C.2.e., or Part D, Sections I.D.2.a.
                   and I.D.2.b. For the purposes of this Section II.D.3.a., the
                   requirements of Part D, Sections I.C.2.d.(ii), I.C.2.e.(iii), and
                   I.D.2.b.(ii) do not apply.

                  I.D.3.a.(i)  If re-monitoring shows a third exceedance, the owner
                         and operator must either comply with the requirement of Part
                         B, Section II.D.2., within 180 calendar days of the measured
                         exceedance, or;

                  I.D.3.a.(ii)  Meet the requirements of Part C to install and operate
                         a gas collection and control system and meet all other
                         applicable requirements of this regulation.




                                                                                        14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         II.D.3.b.      If any quarterly monitoring identifies five or more individual
                 grids at an MSW landfill that meet or exceed the limits specified in
                 Part D, Section I.D.2., or the integrated limit for corrective action if
                 specified for an approved alternative method under Part D,
                 Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5., the owner or operator of the MSW landfill
                 must comply with the requirements of Part B, Section II.D.2., within
                 180 calendar days of the measured exceedance or meet the
                 requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas collection and
                 control system, and meet all other applicable requirements of this
                 regulation.

         II.D.3.c.      If four consecutive quarters of monitoring each result in any
                 measured emissions that meet or exceed the limits specified in Part
                 D, Section I.D.2., or the integrated limit for corrective action if
                 specified for an approved alternative method under Part D,
                 Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5., the owner or operator of the MSW landfill
                 must comply with the requirements of Part B, Section II.D.2., within
                 180 calendar days of the measured exceedance or meet the
                 requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas collection and
                 control system, and meet all other applicable requirements of this
                 regulation.

         II.D.3.d.        If none of the requirements of Part B, Sections II.D.3.a. - c.
                 to comply with the requirement of Part B, Section II.D.2., or install
                 and operate a gas collection and control system apply to an active
                 MSW landfill after four consecutive quarterly periods of monitoring,
                 the owner or operator of the MSW landfill must recalculate the
                 landfill’s methane generation rate using the procedures in Part I,
                 Section III., based on waste-in-place at the end of the most recent
                 full calendar year and submit a methane generation rate report to
                 the Division pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.2., within 30 calendar
                 days after the fourth consecutive quarterly monitoring event.

                II.D.3.d.(i)   If the recalculated methane generation rate is greater
                        than 1,814 metric tons (2,000 short tons) per year, the owner
                        or operator must comply with the requirements of Part B,
                        Section II.E.

                II.D.3.d.(ii) If the recalculated methane generation rate is greater
                        than or equal to 664 metric tons (732 short tons) per year but
                        less than 1,814 metric tons (2,000 short tons) per year, the
                        owner or operator must continue quarterly surface emission
                        monitoring and follow the notification and reporting
                        requirements of Part B, Section II.D.3. and the requirements
                        of Part B, Sections II.D.3.a. - c. as applicable until a Closure
                        Notification is submitted pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.17.




                                                                                       15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.D.3.e.     If none of the requirements of Sections II.D.3.a. - c. to
                       comply with the requirements of Part B, Section II.D.2., or to
                       operate a gas collection and control system apply to an inactive or
                       closed MSW landfill after four consecutive quarterly periods of
                       monitoring, the owner or operator of the MSW landfill must
                       complete the following.

                      II.D.3.e.(i)   If the MSW landfill closed on or after January 1, 1996,
                              submit a Closure Notification pursuant to Part H, Section
                              II.A.17., if one has not already been submitted.

                      II.D.3.e.(ii) If the inactive MSW landfill becomes an active MSW
                              landfill, recalculate the landfill’s methane generation rate
                              according to Part B, Section II.B., and follow the applicable
                              requirements.

                      II.D.3.e.(iii) Comply with only Part E and Part F requirements of
                              this regulation, as applicable.

II.E.   If the methane generation rate for an MSW landfill is greater than or equal to
        1,814 metric tons (2,000 short tons) per year, the owner or operator of the MSW
        landfill must comply with the requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas
        collection and control system and meet all other applicable requirements of this
        regulation, or conduct a Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill within 180 calendar days
        of meeting or exceeding the methane generation rate to determine the average
        methane concentration of the landfill gas. If the owner or operator of the landfill
        conducted a Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill between January 1, 2020 and
        January 1, 2026, or in the 36 months prior to the applicability date of this
        regulation for the landfill, that evaluation must be used to determine the average
        methane concentration before completing another Tier 2 evaluation. If more than
        one Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill was conducted between January 1, 2020 and
        the applicability date of this regulation for the landfill, the most recent Tier 2
        evaluation must be used.

        II.E.1. If a Tier 2 evaluation shows an average methane concentration of 30% or
                greater in the landfill gas, the owner or operator must comply with the
                requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas collection and control
                system and meet all other applicable requirements of this regulation.

        II.E.2. If a Tier 2 evaluation shows an average methane concentration of less
                than 30% in the landfill gas, the owner or operator must complete another
                Tier 2 evaluation no later than 36 months after the prior Tier 2 evaluation.
                If a Tier 2 evaluation was conducted between January 1, 2020 and
                January 1, 2026 that shows an average methane concentration of less
                than 30% in the landfill gas, the next Tier 2 evaluation must be completed
                within 36 months of the effective date of the regulation for the landfill or
                within 60 months after the initial Tier 2 evaluation, whichever is sooner.




                                                                                          16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

II.F.   If the MSW landfill closed before January 1, 1996, and has a methane generation
        rate greater than or equal to 664 metric tons (732 short tons) per year, the owner
        or operator may perform surface emissions monitoring consistent with Part B,
        Section II.D.3. and/or a Tier 2 evaluation pursuant to Part B, Section II.F.2.
        below, in order to determine the applicability of gas collection and control system
        requirements under the regulation. Measurements of methane concentration
        completed before June 1, 2025 may be used to meet the requirements of this
        Section II.F.; otherwise, a Tier 2 evaluation must be completed.

        II.F.1. If the owner or operator performs surface emissions monitoring, the owner
                or operator must determine whether a gas collection and control system is
                required to be installed using the procedure described in Part B, Section
                II.D.3. If the requirements of Part B, Sections II.D.3.a. - c. to install a gas
                collection and control system are met, the owner or operator may install
                biofilters pursuant to Part C, Section III.C., in place of a gas collection and
                control system. The owner or operator of the landfill may utilize an existing
                gas collection system or passive vents at the landfill for the biofilters.

        II.F.2. If the owner or operator conducts a Tier 2 evaluation, or measurements of
                methane concentration, the following requirements apply:

               II.F.2.a.       If the Tier 2 evaluation, or measurements of methane
                       concentration, shows an average methane concentration of less
                       than 30% in the landfill gas, the owner or operator is not required to
                       complete any subsequent Tier 2 evaluations and is not required to
                       install or operate a gas collection and control system or biofilters at
                       the landfill.

               II.F.2.b.      If the Tier 2 evaluation, or measurements of methane
                       concentration, shows an average methane concentration of 30% or
                       greater in the landfill gas, the owner or operator may perform
                       surface emissions monitoring consistent with Part B, Section II.D.3.
                       to determine if a gas collection and control system is required, or
                       may install biofilters. If a gas collection and control system is
                       required after conducting surface emissions monitoring, the owner
                       or operator may install biofilters at the landfill pursuant to Part C,
                       Section III.C., in place of a gas collection and control system.

II.G.   If the owner or operator of a MSW landfill with more than 450,000 short tons of
        waste-in-place adds any liquid, other than leachate in a controlled fashion, to the
        waste mass to reach a minimum average moisture content of at least 40 percent
        by weight to accelerate or enhance the anaerobic biodegradation of the waste as
        approved by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management
        Division, the owner or operator must install and operate a gas collection and
        control system that meets the requirements in Part C in accordance with the
        following:




                                                                                            17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       II.G.1. Install the gas collection and control system for the bioreactor before
               initiating liquids addition and extend the gas collection and control system
               into each new cell or area of the bioreactor prior to initiating liquids
               addition in that area;

       II.G.2. Begin operating the gas collection and control system within 180 calendar
               days after initiating liquids addition or within 180 calendar days after
               achieving a moisture content of 40 percent by weight, whichever is later;
               and,

       II.G.3. Calculate the bioreactor moisture content pursuant to Part I, Section VI.

PART C        Gas Collection and Control System Requirements

I.     Design Plan and Gas Collection and Control System Installation

I.A.   The owner or operator subject to the requirements of this regulation to install and
       operate a gas collection and control system at the MSW landfill must meet the
       Design Plan requirements of Part C, Section I.B.

       I.A.1. The owner or operator required to install a gas collection and control
              system anytime after December 31, 2025 must submit a Design Plan to
              the Division within 12 months of meeting the requirement to install and
              operate a gas collection and control system under Part B, Sections II.D.1,
              II.D.3.a. - d., II.E., or II.F. An owner or operator of a MSW landfill that
              chooses to install biofilters under Section II.F. in place of a gas collection
              and control system is not required to submit a Design Plan to the Division
              but must submit a biofilter design and operation plan under Part C,
              Section III.C.1.

       I.A.2. Owners or operators of an MSW landfill with a gas collection and control
              system that was required to be installed at the landfill before December
              31, 2025 and does not meet the requirements of Part C, Section II.A., and
              Sections II.B., II.C. or II.E., or does not have an approved Design Plan that
              meets the requirements of Section I.B., must submit a new or an amended
              Design Plan to the Division to meet those requirements no later than
              December 31, 2026, and begin meeting the requirements of Part C,
              Section II., no later than December 31, 2026.




                                                                                           18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.A.3. Upon receipt of an initial or revised Design Plan, the Division must review
              the information required to be submitted under Part C, Section I.B., and
              either approve or disapprove the Design Plan, or request that additional
              information for the Design Plan be submitted by the owner or operator. If
              the Division does not approve or disapprove the Design Plan, or does not
              request that additional information be submitted within 90 calendar days of
              receipt, then the owner or operator may continue with implementation of
              the Design Plan with the recognition that the Design Plan or gas collection
              and control system may be required to be modified to obtain approval from
              the Division.

             I.A.3.a.       If the Design Plan addresses all the requirements of Section
                    I.B., and the Division determines that revisions to the Design Plan
                    or modifications to the gas collection and control system are
                    required prior to approving the Design Plan:

                    I.A.3.a.(i)   The Division, in consultation with the owner or
                           operator, will provide the owner or operator with a
                           reasonable amount of time, considering the scope of
                           modifications and time required to acquire and install
                           equipment if necessary, to make such revisions or
                           modifications; and

                    I.A.3.a.(ii)  As long as the owner or operator works in good faith
                           with the Division to make requested conforming changes to
                           the Design Plan or modifications to the gas collection and
                           control system by the established due date, the Division will
                           not assert a violation against the owner or operator for
                           submitting a Design Plan that the Division will not approve
                           without modifications or for non-compliance with the
                           provisions of this regulation that are directly relevant to such
                           revisions or modifications.

             I.A.3.b.      The owner or operator must otherwise follow all applicable
                    requirements of this regulation.

I.B.   The Design Plan must meet the following requirements:

       I.B.1. Be prepared and certified by a Colorado Professional Engineer.

       I.B.2. Address the following issues:

             I.B.2.a.      Depths of solid waste.

             I.B.2.b.      Solid waste gas generation rates and flow characteristics.

             I.B.2.c.      Cover properties.




                                                                                         19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.B.2.d.       Gas collection and control system expandability including
                  well raising and installation of horizontal collectors and wells or
                  caisson wells as applicable.

           I.B.2.e.       Leachate and condensate management.

           I.B.2.f. Minimization of liquids intrusion or blockage in the gas collection
                    and control system, as well as liquids management and removal.

           I.B.2.g.       Off-site migration of subsurface landfill gas.

           I.B.2.h.       Accessibility of the gas collection and control system.

           I.B.2.i.       Compatibility and integration with filling operations.

           I.B.2.j.       Integration with closure end use.

           I.B.2.k.       Air intrusion control in the gas collection and control system.

           I.B.2.l.       Corrosion resistance.

           I.B.2.m.       Fill settlement.

           I.B.2.n.    Resistance of the gas collection system to the solid waste
                  decomposition heat.

           I.B.2.o.     The ability to isolate individual components or sections of the
                  gas collection system for repair, troubleshooting, or expansion
                  without shutting down the entire gas collection system.

    I.B.3. Provide for the control of the collected landfill gas through the use of a gas
           collection and control system that meets the requirements of Part C,
           Sections I.H. and I.I., Section II.A., and Part C, Sections II.B., II.C., or II.E.

           I.B.3.a.      For an MSW landfill with the waste acceptance rate set forth
                  in Part C, Section I.H.2. that installs a new gas collection and
                  control system or that operates a gas collection and control system
                  voluntarily as of the effective date of this regulation, the Design
                  Plan must also provide for the use of a gas collection and control
                  system to control landfill gas from waste that has been in place for
                  at least 24 months at the MSW landfill according to the requirement
                  of Part C, Section I.B.3.b.

           I.B.3.b.      The gas collection and control system must cover areas of
                  the MSW landfill where waste has been in place for at least 24
                  months upon the installation deadline for the gas collection and
                  control system.




                                                                                          20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.B.3.c.       For an MSW landfill with the waste acceptance rate set forth
                   in Part C, Section I.H.1. that installs a new gas collection and
                   control system or that operates a gas collection and control system
                   voluntarily as of the effective date of this regulation, the Design
                   Plan must also provide for the use of a gas collection and control
                   system to control landfill gas from waste that has been in place for
                   at least 36 months at the MSW landfill according to the requirement
                   of Part C, Section I.B.3.d.

           I.B.3.d.      The gas collection and control system must cover areas of
                  the MSW landfill where waste has been in place for at least 36
                  months upon the installation deadline for the gas collection and
                  control system.

    I.B.4. Demonstrate that the gas collection and control system is designed to
           handle the maximum expected gas generation flow rate from the entire
           area of the landfill that warrants control over the intended use period of the
           gas control system equipment and that the gas control device(s)
           specifications are appropriate for the flow rate. The maximum expected
           gas generation flow rate must be calculated using the method in Part I,
           Section I., or an alternative method approved pursuant to Part I, Section
           VII.

    I.B.5. Demonstrate how the gas collection system will meet the requirements of
           Part C, Sections II.A.8. - II.A.13.

    I.B.6. Demonstrate that the gas collection and control system is designed to
           collect gas at an extraction rate sufficient to meet all operational and
           performance standards in this regulation.

    I.B.7. Demonstrate that the gas collection and control system is designed to
           maintain a negative pressure at all wellheads in the collection system
           without causing air infiltration, including any wellheads connected to the
           system as a result of expansion or excess surface emissions. If a
           geomembrane or synthetic cover is used at the MSW landfill, the Design
           Plan must specify acceptable pressure limits for the wellheads if negative
           pressure is not met.

    I.B.8. Identify the density of wells, horizontal collectors, surface collectors, or
           other gas extraction devices necessary to achieve compliance with Part C,
           Section I.C., and include a map of the MSW landfill showing where the
           gas collection and control system is anticipated to be installed.

    I.B.9. Identify gas collection and control system equipment maintenance and
           calibrations, and planned schedules or frequencies for both, as well as
           vendor specifications for each.




                                                                                      21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.B.10. Include any requests for open flare exemptions pursuant to Part C,
            Section II.D.5.a., as well as any proposed alternative compliance options
            pursuant to Part G and a justification of the need for the proposed
            alternatives. A landfill owner or operator may also submit open flare
            exemption or alternative compliance requests after the Design Plan has
            been submitted.

    I.B.11. Include a description of mitigation measures to be used to reduce the
            release of methane and other air pollutants in landfill gas into the
            atmosphere from the working face, such as minimizing the working face
            size based on the volume of incoming waste; during the installation,
            preparation, or expansion of wells, piping, or other equipment for the gas
            collection and control system; during repairs or the temporary shutdown of
            gas collection system components; when solid waste is to be excavated
            and moved as approved by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
            Management Division; during active mining activities as approved by the
            Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division; or, when
            preventing or extinguishing landfill fires.

    I.B.12. For active MSW landfills, identify areas of the landfill that are closed or
            inactive.

    I.B.13. Identify any areas of the MSW landfill that contain only asbestos waste or
            non-decomposable solid waste that the owner or operator proposes to
            exclude from gas collection. The Design Plan must contain documentation
            of the nature of the waste, date of deposition, and location and amount of
            asbestos waste or non-decomposable solid waste deposited in the area.

    I.B.14. Identify any non-productive area(s) of the MSW landfill that the owner or
            operator proposes to exclude from gas collection provided that the total of
            all proposed excluded areas can be shown to contribute less than one
            percent (1%) of the total amount of methane emissions from the MSW
            landfill. The following information must be provided for the proposed
            excluded area(s).

           I.B.14.a.     The amount, location, and age of the material or waste. If
                  data on actual amounts and age of the material or waste is not
                  available, the owner or operator must estimate this based on known
                  information and provide all documentation used to make the
                  estimates.




                                                                                          22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.B.14.b.     A separate methane emissions estimate for each section of
                     the MSW landfill proposed for exclusion must be calculated using
                     the method in Part I, Section I., and the sum of all such sections
                     must be compared to the methane emissions estimate for the entire
                     MSW landfill to determine if the proposed excluded area(s)
                     contribute less than one percent (1%) of the total amount of
                     methane emissions from the MSW landfill.

              I.B.14.c. All calculations, data and documentation used to perform the
                     calculations specified in Part C, Section I.B.14.b. must be submitted
                     with the exclusion request.

       I.B.15. Include procedures for detecting and suppressing any internal landfill fires
               or thermal waste oxidation events that might occur within the waste, and
               for mitigating any damage that may have occurred to pollution control
               devices such as the MSW landfill’s liner, leachate collection system, cap,
               or gas collection and control system as a result of the event.

       I.B.16. For MSW landfills that route the collected landfill gas to a treatment
               system that processes the collected gas for subsequent sale or beneficial
               use, a site-specific treatment system monitoring plan pursuant to Part C,
               Section II.E.3.b.

       I.B.17. Include the initial surface emissions monitoring plan for the MSW landfill
               pursuant to Part D, Section I.B.1.

I.C.   The owner or operator of an active MSW landfill that is required to install and
       operate a new gas collection and control system as required by this regulation, or
       an MSW landfill with a gas collection and control system voluntarily operating as
       of the effective date of this regulation, must meet the requirements of this
       regulation to install and operate a gas collection and control system within 18
       months after the submission deadline for the design plan unless an extension is
       approved by the Division according to the following requirements.

       I.C.1. The Division may approve an extension to the installation deadline for a
              gas collection and control system to an owner or operator for good cause
              shown, such as, but not limited to, if the owner or operator timely applied
              for a permit but does not yet have an issued permit from the Division for
              installing the gas collection and control system or a gas control device if
              required, or a delayed Design Plan approval.

       I.C.2. An owner or operator must submit an extension request in writing to the
              Division at least 60 calendar days prior to the installation deadline that
              includes the basis for the extension request and a proposed deadline for
              installing the gas collection and control system, which must be approved
              in writing by the Division for the extension to be granted.




                                                                                            23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

I.D.   The owner or operator of an inactive or closed MSW landfill that is required to
       install and operate a new gas collection and control system as required by this
       regulation, must do so within 24 months after the submission deadline for the
       design plan unless an extension is approved by the Division according to the
       requirements of Part C, Sections I.C.1. and I.C.2.

I.E.   The owner or operator required to install and operate a gas collection and control
       system must submit any necessary permit application(s) for the gas collection
       and control system or the gas control device, as applicable, to the Division no
       later than the due date for submitting the design plan.

I.F.   The MSW landfill and its gas collection and control system must be operated,
       maintained, and expanded in accordance with the procedures and schedules in
       the approved design plan and applicable regulations.

I.G.   The owner or operator of a controlled MSW landfill must place each well or
       design component of the gas collection and control system as specified in the
       approved design plan.

I.H.   Following initial construction of a new gas collection and control system at an
       active MSW landfill, or for active MSW landfills with an existing gas collection and
       control system, the owner or operator must install each new gas collection device
       in each area, cell, or group of cells in the landfill where solid waste is or will be
       placed beginning on the effective date of this regulation according to the
       following requirements. For solid waste placed in an area, cell, or group of cells
       in the landfill before the effective date of this regulation where gas collection
       devices have not been installed but there is an existing gas collection and control
       system at the landfill, the requirements to install new gas collection devices must
       be met no later than 36 months after the effective date of this regulation if Part C,
       Section I.H.1. applies or no later than 24 months after the effective date of this
       regulation if Part C, Section I.H.2. applies.

       I.H.1. For an MSW landfill with a permitted solid waste acceptance rate of less
              than 300,000 short tons per year, or an actual solid waste acceptance rate
              of less than 300,000 short tons per year if there is no permitted limit, new
              gas collection devices or expansion of existing gas collection devices must
              be installed such that landfill gas may be collected from solid waste that
              has been in place for 36 months in an area, cell, or group of cells.

       I.H.2. For an MSW landfill with a permitted solid waste acceptance rate of
              300,000 short tons per year or greater, or an actual solid waste
              acceptance rate of 300,000 short tons per year or greater if there is no
              permitted limit, new gas collection devices or expansion of existing gas
              collection devices must be installed such that landfill gas may be collected
              from solid waste that has been in place for 24 months in an area, cell, or
              group of cells.




                                                                                         24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        I.H.3. The owner or operator must conduct monthly sampling of a gas collection
               device installed pursuant to Part C, Sections I.H.1. and I.H.2., and ensure
               the device is connected to the gas collection and control system and made
               operational within 30 calendar days after the detection of at least 30%
               methane in two consecutive monthly samplings of landfill gas from the
               device completed according to Part I, Section V.A.5. Operation of the gas
               collection device may be temporarily discontinued during the first 24
               months after the device first begins operating if two consecutive monthly
               samplings of landfill gas from the device completed according to Part I,
               Section V.A.5., indicate that methane concentrations have fallen below
               30%. The owner or operator may discontinue monthly sampling of the
               landfill gas from the gas collection device to determine methane
               concentration at any point after the device first begins operating.

I.I.    In addition to meeting the requirements of Part C, Section I.H., the owner or
        operator must install any additional gas collection devices or replace abandoned
        gas collection devices in active areas or cells, inactive areas or cells, or closed or
        final grade areas or cells of the landfill in accordance with the Design Plan for the
        gas collection and control system to achieve or maintain the requirements in Part
        C, Section I.B.3., and ensure continuous and long-term gas collection in these
        areas or cells. The installation and operation of such additional or replacement
        gas collection devices must be completed on a schedule that ensures there is no
        delay in meeting or maintaining the requirements of Part C, Section I.B.3.

II.   Gas Collection and Control System Operational Standards and
Requirements

II.A.   The owner or operator required by this regulation to install and operate a gas
        collection and control system at the MSW landfill must meet the following
        requirements.

        II.A.1. Route all collected landfill gas to a gas control device or devices or gas
                control system, and ensure no collected landfill gas is vented to the
                ambient air.

        II.A.2. Maintain continuous operation of the gas collection and control system
                except as provided in Part C, Sections II.A.7., II.J., and II.K., or when
                landfill gas flow rates and methane concentrations are insufficient to
                maintain continuous operation of the gas collection and control system.




                                                                                             25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.A.2.a.      If continuous operation of the gas collection and control
                  system cannot be maintained due to landfill gas flow rates and
                  methane concentrations, including when a gas collection and
                  control system first begins operating at an MSW landfill, the owner
                  of operator must submit a request for intermittent operation of the
                  gas collection and control system pursuant to Part G, Section I.A.,
                  and follow the requirement of Part C, Section II.A.2.b., until the
                  request for intermittent operation is approved.

          II.A.2.b.       The owner or operator must conduct monthly sampling of
                  each wellhead or gas header to determine methane concentration
                  in the landfill gas according to Part I, Section V.A.5., and if the
                  average methane concentration is 30% or greater, the gas
                  collection and control system must be operated. The owner or
                  operator must follow this requirement until the gas collection and
                  control system can maintain continuous operation or the request for
                  intermittent operation of the gas collection and control system is
                  approved pursuant to Part G, Section I.A., whichever occurs first.

          II.A.2.c.      The owner or operator must follow the requirements for
                  intermittent operation of the gas collection and control system
                  approved pursuant to Part G, Section I.A., until the gas collection
                  and control system can maintain continuous operation.

    II.A.3. Operate the gas collection and control system to comply with Part D,
            Section II.

    II.A.4. Design and operate the gas collection system to draw all the collected
            landfill gas toward the gas control device or devices or treatment system.

    II.A.5. Design and operate the gas collection system to minimize off-site
            migration of subsurface landfill gas.

    II.A.6. The gas collection system must extend and be expanded as necessary to
            comply with emission and migration standards.

    II.A.7. In the event the gas collection or control system is inoperable, the gas
            mover system must be shut down and all valves in the gas collection and
            control system contributing to venting of the gas to the atmosphere must
            be closed immediately using an automatic blower shutdown and valve
            closing. Efforts to repair the gas collection or control system must be
            initiated and completed in a manner such that downtime is kept to a
            minimum according to the requirements of Part C, Section II.K.4., and the
            gas collection and control system is returned to operation as expeditiously
            as practicable.




                                                                                        26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    II.A.8. The landfill gas extraction components must be constructed of polyvinyl
            chloride (PVC), high density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe, fiberglass,
            stainless steel, or other nonporous corrosion resistant material of suitable
            dimensions to:

           II.A.8.a.     Convey projected amounts of landfill gases.

           II.A.8.b.     Withstand installation, static, and settlement forces.

           II.A.8.c.     Withstand planned overburden or traffic loads.

    II.A.9. Gas collection devices such as wells and horizontal collectors must be
            perforated to allow gas entry without head loss which may impair
            performance across the intended extent of control, and perforations must
            be situated with regard to the need to prevent excessive air infiltration.

    II.A.10.        Vertical or horizontal wells must be placed so as not to endanger
           underlying liners and must address the occurrence of liquids within the
           landfill.

           II.A.10.a.    Holes and trenches constructed for piped wells and
                  horizontal collectors must be of sufficient cross-section so as to
                  allow for their proper construction and completion including, for
                  example, centering of pipes and placement of gravel backfill.

           II.A.10.b.     Horizontal gas collectors must be properly sloped to drain
                  accumulated liquids and be designed for uniform vacuum
                  distribution and to withstand expected overburden pressures to the
                  extent practicable.

           II.A.10.c.     Installation of wells for horizontal collectors must be
                  considered for both sides of a collector to minimize reduced gas
                  collection from formation of low points in the collector.

           II.A.10.d.     Gas collection devices must be designed so as not to allow
                  indirect short circuiting of air into the soil cover, into the solid waste,
                  or into the gas collection system, or gas into the air.

           II.A.10.e.   Any gravel used around pipe perforations must be of a
                  dimension so as not to penetrate or block the perforations.

    II.A.11.      Gas collection devices may be connected to the collection header
           pipes below or above the landfill surface.

           II.A.11.a.     The connector assembly must include a positive closing
                  throttle valve, any necessary seals and couplings, access
                  couplings, and at least one sampling port.




                                                                                          27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.A.11.b.    The collection devices must be constructed of PVC, HDPE,
                      fiberglass, stainless steel, or other nonporous material of suitable
                      thickness.

        II.A.12.     Landfill gas must be conveyed through the gas collection system
               header pipe(s) to a gas control device or treatment system.

        II.A.13.     The gas mover equipment must be sized to handle the maximum
               gas generation flow rate expected over the intended use period of the gas
               moving equipment using the following procedures:

               II.A.13.a.    For existing collection systems, the flow data must be used
                      to project the maximum flow rate, or if no flow data exists, the
                      procedures in Part I, Section I., must be used.

               II.A.13.b.   For new collection systems, the maximum flow rate must be
                      determined in accordance with Part I, Section I.

II.B.   The owner or operator subject to the requirements of this regulation who
        operates an enclosed flare to control landfill gas must route the collected landfill
        gas to an enclosed flare that achieves a methane destruction efficiency of at
        least 99 percent by weight and meets the following requirements:

        II.B.1. The enclosed flare must be equipped with automatic dampers, an
                automatic shutdown device, and a flame arrester.

        II.B.2. The enclosed flare must be installed, calibrated, operated and maintained
                in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and specifications and
                operated within the parameter ranges established during the most recent
                performance test. The enclosed flare must be operated at an average
                temperature no more than 28ºC (or 82º F) below the average combustion
                temperature during the most recent performance test.

        II.B.3. The enclosed flare must have a sufficient flow of propane, natural gas, or
                another fuel source approved by the Division to the pilot light for flare
                startup and restart to prevent unburned collected methane from being
                emitted to the atmosphere.

        II.B.4. The enclosed flare must be equipped with a continuous recording
                temperature monitoring device that monitors temperature in the
                combustion zone of the flare with an accuracy of plus or minus (±) 1
                percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius
                or Fahrenheit, or plus or minus (±) 0.5 degrees Celsius, whichever is
                greater. The temperature monitoring device must be installed, calibrated,
                operated, and maintained according to the manufacturer’s specifications.




                                                                                           28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.B.5. The enclosed flare must be equipped with a gas flow rate measuring
                device that is installed, calibrated, operated and maintained according to
                the manufacturer's specifications, and records flow to the flare at least
                every 15 minutes unless a valve in the line connecting the flare to the gas
                mover equipment has been manually secured in the closed position.
                Records of the date and time of valve position changes must be
                maintained by the owner or operator.

        II.B.6. If there is a bypass line from the line connecting the flare to the gas mover
                equipment, the bypass line must be equipped with a gas flow rate
                measuring device that is installed, calibrated, operated and maintained
                according to the manufacturer's specifications and records bypass flow.

               II.B.6.a.       The bypass line valve must be secured in the closed
                       position with a car seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.

               II.B.6.b.      A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism must
                       be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is
                       maintained in the closed position and that the gas flow is not
                       diverted through the bypass line.

II.C.   The owner or operator subject to the requirements of this regulation who
        operates an open flare to control landfill gas that is allowed pursuant to Part C,
        Section II.D., must route the collected landfill gas to an open flare that meets the
        requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 60.18 (December 22, 2008) and the following
        requirements:

        II.C.1. The open flare must be installed, calibrated, operated and maintained in
                accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and specifications.

        II.C.2. The open flare must be equipped with a heat sensing device, such as an
                ultraviolet beam sensor or thermocouple, at the pilot light or the flame
                itself to indicate and record the continuous presence of a flame.

        II.C.3. The open flare must be equipped with a gas flow rate measuring device
                that is installed, calibrated, operated and maintained according to the
                manufacturer's specifications, and records flow to the flare at least every
                15 minutes unless a valve in the line connecting the flare to the gas mover
                equipment has been manually secured in the closed position. Records of
                the date and time of valve position changes must be maintained by the
                owner or operator.

        II.C.4. If there is a bypass line from the line connecting the flare to the gas mover
                equipment, the bypass line must be equipped with a gas flow rate
                measuring device that is installed, calibrated, operated and maintained
                according to the manufacturer's specifications and records bypass flow.




                                                                                           29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.C.4.a.      The bypass line valve for it must be secured in the closed
                       position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.

               II.C.4.b.      A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism must
                       be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is
                       maintained in the closed position and that the gas flow is not
                       diverted through the bypass line.

II.D.   The operation of an open flare at an MSW landfill is prohibited on or after
        January 1, 2029 unless the owner or operator demonstrates that one of the
        conditions of Part C, Sections II.D.1. - II.D.4. apply and receives written approval
        from the Division to operate the open flare per Part C, Section II.D.5.

        II.D.1. The landfill gas flow rate and methane concentration are insufficient to
                support the operation of an enclosed flare or other gas control device
                besides an open flare on a continuous basis without the use of
                supplemental fuel. In order to qualify for this exemption, the owner or
                operator must first determine if there are enclosed flares or other gas
                control devices besides an open flare that can operate continuously
                without the use of supplemental fuel at the gas flow rates and methane
                concentrations for the landfill, and if no such devices are available, the
                requirements of Part C, Sections III.B.1. and III.B.2., must be met.

        II.D.2. The owner or operator is seeking to temporarily operate an open flare
                during the repair or maintenance of the gas control system if the open
                flare is not already approved as a backup or secondary control device
                pursuant to Part C, Section II.D.3., or while awaiting the installation of an
                enclosed flare or other gas control device, or to address offsite gas
                migration issues. An owner or operator must identify why the open flare is
                needed and the period of time it will be in temporary operation as part of
                meeting the requirement of Part C, Section II.D.5., and submit a
                notification to the Division in writing that the flare is no longer operating
                within 7 calendar days after the open flare ceases temporary operation.

        II.D.3. The open flare is used as a backup or secondary gas control device to a
                treatment system or gas control device that is not an open flare.

               II.D.3.a.      Notwithstanding Part C, Section II.D.3., an open flare used
                       as a backup or secondary gas control device is not allowed if it is
                       located within 1,000 feet of a residential community, mobile home
                       community, daycare facility, school, or hospital within a
                       disproportionately impacted community.

               II.D.3.b.      An owner or operator seeking to install and operate a new
                       open flare as a backup or secondary gas control device must
                       submit an analysis demonstrating there is no feasible alternative for
                       controlling the landfill gas without use of an open flare.




                                                                                             30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.D.4. The open flare was installed between January 1, 2020 and January 1,
                2025, in which case the open flare may continue to operate for no more
                than 10 years after its installation date if the open flare is not within 1,000
                feet of a residential community, mobile home community, daycare facility,
                school, or hospital located within a disproportionately impacted
                community. The open flare may also continue to operate if one of the
                conditions of Part C, Sections II.D.1., II.D.2., or II.D.3. are met.

        II.D.5. An owner or operator seeking to operate an open flare in accordance with
                one of the requirements of Part C, Sections II.D.1. - II.D.4. must submit a
                written request to the Division demonstrating the requirements have been
                met, which must be approved in writing by the Division for the open flare
                to be used or continue operating.

               II.D.5.a.       If an owner or operator has an existing open flare for which
                       an exemption under Part C, Sections II.D.1. - II.D.4. is being
                       sought, the open flare request must be included with the gas
                       collection and control system design plan submission required by
                       Part B, Section I.A.

               II.D.5.b.       The operation of a new open flare at an MSW landfill is not
                       allowed unless approved in writing by the Division or if the open
                       flare is being installed pursuant to Part C, Section III.B.8.

II.E.   An owner or operator may operate a gas control device other than a flare to
        control landfill gas if the gas control device complies with one of the following
        requirements of Sections II.E.1. - II.E.3.

        II.E.1. The collected landfill gas is routed to a boiler or process heater with a
                design heat input capacity equal to or greater than 44 megawatts per hour
                (150 MMBtu/hr), provided that the landfill gas stream is introduced into the
                flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

               II.E.1.a.       The boiler or process heater must be operated, monitored
                       and maintained in accordance with written manufacturer
                       instructions and specifications, which must be provided to the
                       Division upon request.

               II.E.1.b.      The owner or operator must maintain records of appropriate
                       monitoring procedures and operating parameters that would
                       indicate proper performance of the boiler or process heater in
                       accordance with Part C, Section II.E.1.a. The Division may also
                       specify additional monitoring procedures to follow.

               II.E.1.c.       The boiler or process heater achieves a methane destruction
                       efficiency of at least 99 percent by weight pursuant to Part I,
                       Section II.




                                                                                             31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       II.E.2. The collected landfill gas is routed to an energy recovery device, or series
               of devices that meet the following requirements.

              II.E.2.a. Achieves a methane destruction efficiency of at least 99 percent
                      by weight pursuant to Part I, Section II., except for lean-burn
                      internal combustion engines, which must reduce the outlet methane
                      concentration to less than 3,000 parts per million by volume, dry
                      basis corrected to 15 percent oxygen.

              II.E.2.b.       The gas control device(s) operates within the parameter
                      ranges established during the most recent performance test for
                      methane destruction efficiency determined under Part I, Section II.,
                      or within engineering or manufacturer’s established parameter
                      ranges until a performance test is performed according to Part I,
                      Section II.

              II.E.2.c.      The gas control device(s) is operated and maintained in
                      accordance with written manufacturer instructions and
                      specifications, which must be provided to the Division upon
                      request.

              II.E.2.d.      The owner or operator must maintain records of appropriate
                      monitoring procedures and operating parameters that would
                      indicate proper performance of the gas control device(s) in
                      accordance with Part C, Sections II.E.2.b. and II.E.2.c. The Division
                      may also specify additional monitoring procedures to follow.

II.E.3. The collected landfill gas is routed to a treatment system that processes the
        collected gas for subsequent sale or beneficial use provided that:

       II.E.3.a. Any landfill gas that cannot be routed for treatment or subsequent sale
               or beneficial use must be controlled in accordance with the requirements
               of Part C, Sections II.B., II.C., II.E.1., or II.E.2., as applicable.

       II.E.3.b. The owner or operator prepares and follows a site-specific treatment
               system monitoring plan, submitted with the gas collection and control
               system design plan, that includes all of the following:

              II.E.3.b.(i)   Monitoring parameters that will be recorded to ensure the
                      treatment system is operating properly for each intended end use of
                      the treated landfill gas that at a minimum includes filtration, de-
                      watering, and compression parameters.

              II.E.3.b.(ii) Monitoring methods, frequencies, and operating ranges for
                      each monitored operating parameter based on manufacturer’s
                      recommendations or engineering analysis for each intended end
                      use of the treated landfill gas.




                                                                                         32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.E.3.b.(iii) Documentation of the monitoring methods and ranges, along
                       with justification for their use.

               II.E.3.b.(iv) Processes and methods used to collect the necessary
                       monitoring data.

               II.E.3.b.(v) A description of the procedures and methods that are used
                       for quality assurance, maintenance, and repair of all continuous
                       monitoring systems.

        II.E.3.c. The treatment system must be equipped with a gas flow rate measuring
                device that is installed, calibrated, operated and maintained according to
                the manufacturer's specifications, and records flow to the treatment
                system at least every 15 minutes unless a valve in the line connecting the
                treatment system to the gas mover equipment has been manually secured
                in the closed position. Records of the date and time of valve position
                changes must be maintained by the owner or operator.

        II.E.3.d.      If there is a bypass line from the line connecting the treatment
                system to the gas mover equipment, the bypass line must be equipped
                with a gas flow rate measuring device that is installed, calibrated, operated
                and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications and records
                bypass flow.

               II.E.3.d.(i)   The bypass line valve must be secured in the closed position
                       with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.

               II.E.3.d.(ii) A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism must
                       be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is
                       maintained in the closed position and that the gas flow is not
                       diverted through the bypass line.

II.F.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation who operates a gas control device(s) at the landfill
        must conduct performance tests of the device(s) using the applicable test
        methods identified in Part I, Section II., and according to the following
        requirements.

        II.F.1. Conduct an initial performance test within 180 calendar days of start-up of
                the gas collection and control system.

        II.F.2. Conduct the first performance test required under this regulation no later
                than December 31, 2026 for a gas control device that is already in
                operation as of December 31, 2025.




                                                                                          33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.F.3. If the gas control device was previously tested on or after November 16,
                2025 to meet applicable federal requirements, it may be tested no later
                than 45 calendar days following the 1-year anniversary date of the prior
                performance test, or within 4,000 hours of operation since the prior
                performance test if the gas control device is a backup control device,
                provided the performance test showed compliance with federal
                requirements.

        II.F.4. Conduct subsequent annual performance tests required under this
                regulation no later than 45 calendar days following the 1-year anniversary
                date of the prior performance test, or within 4,000 hours of operation since
                the prior performance test for gas control devices that are backup control
                devices.

        II.F.5. All performance testing must be approved by the Division prior to
                conducting the performance test and meet the requirements of 5-CCR-
                1001-2, Part II.C. (December 15, 2024).

        II.F.6. Process information necessary to document operating conditions during
                the test must be recorded and include an explanation to support that such
                conditions represent normal operation, which must be provided to the
                Division upon request.

        II.F.7. Performance tests may not be conducted during periods of malfunction.

        II.F.8. If any three consecutive performance tests conducted pursuant to the
                applicable schedules outlined in Part C, Sections II.F.2. and II.F.3.
                demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this regulation, then
                performance testing may be conducted every three years, or every 12,000
                operating hours for gas control devices that are backup control devices. If
                a subsequent performance test demonstrates noncompliance with the
                requirements of this regulation, the performance testing frequency must
                return to annual, or every 4,000 hours of operation for gas control devices
                that are backup control devices.

II.G.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation must operate the gas collection and control
        system under a vacuum or negative pressure, except as provided in Part C,
        Sections II.I. and II.J., or under any of the following conditions.

        II.G.1. Use of a geomembrane or synthetic cover, upon which the owner or
                operator must develop acceptable pressure limits for the wellheads and
                include them in the Design Plan.

        II.G.2. A decommissioned well for which vacuum or negative pressure will not
                apply.




                                                                                           34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.G.3. A fire or increased well temperature. The owner or operator must record
                instances when positive pressure occurs in efforts to avoid a fire and
                these records must be submitted with the semi-annual reports as provided
                in Part H, Section II.A.12.

II.H.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation must operate each interior wellhead in the gas
        collection system with a landfill gas temperature less than 55 degrees Celsius
        (131 degrees Fahrenheit), or less than 62.8 degrees Celsius (145 degrees
        Fahrenheit) if the MSW landfill is subject to 40 CFR, Part 63, Subpart AAAA
        (March 26, 2020) or if the owner or operator chooses to be subject to the
        wellhead monitoring provisions of 40 CFR, Part 63, Subpart AAAA (March 26,
        2020) if the landfill is subject to 40 CFR, Part 60, Subpart Cf (August 29, 2016) or
        40 CFR, Part 60, Subpart XXX (August 29, 2016 ), unless a higher operating
        temperature is approved by the Division. The Division may approve an alternate
        temperature only where an owner or operator submits to the Division a request
        which uses supporting data to adequately demonstrate that the higher operating
        temperature value at a particular well will not cause a fire and not significantly
        inhibit anaerobic decomposition by killing methanogens.

II.I.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation must install a sampling port and measuring
        devices, or an access port for measuring devices, at each wellhead and comply
        with the following, using measuring devices that meet the requirements of Part I,
        Section IV.

        II.I.1. Monitor and record nitrogen or oxygen concentration in the landfill gas on
                at least a monthly basis.

        II.I.2. Measure and record the gauge pressure in each wellhead on at least a
                monthly basis.

               II.I.2.a.        If there is any positive pressure reading other than as
                        provided in Part C, Section II.G., the owner or operator must take
                        the following actions while ensuring any attempted corrective
                        measure does not cause an exceedance of other operational or
                        performance standards. As long as the applicable requirements of
                        Section II.I.2.a. are met, the positive pressure reading is not a
                        violation of this regulation.

                      II.I.2.a.(i)    Initiate corrective action within 5 calendar days of the
                               positive pressure measurement.




                                                                                            35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.I.2.a.(ii)    If negative pressure cannot be achieved without
                          excess infiltration within 15 calendar days of the date the
                          positive pressure was first measured, the owner operator
                          must conduct a root cause analysis within 30 calendar days
                          after the positive pressure measurement that includes a
                          thorough investigation of the landfill gas collection and
                          control system to determine the primary cause, and any
                          other contributing causes, of positive pressure at the
                          wellhead, and identify each factor investigated, methods
                          used, and alternative causes that were analyzed, and
                          complete corrective action(s) based on the results of the
                          analysis.

                 II.I.2.a.(iii)  If completion of corrective action(s) is expected to
                          take longer than 60 calendar days after the positive pressure
                          measurement, the owner or operator must also conduct a
                          corrective action analysis and develop an implementation
                          schedule to complete the corrective action(s) as soon as
                          practicable. The owner or operator must submit the root
                          cause analysis, corrective action analysis and proposed
                          implementation schedule for corrective action(s) to the
                          Division within 60 calendar days of the positive pressure
                          measurement and obtain Division approval if the proposed
                          schedule for completing corrective action(s) exceeds 120
                          calendar days from the positive pressure measurement.

    II.I.3. Monitor and record the temperature of the landfill gas in each wellhead on
            at least a monthly basis. II.I.3.a. If the operating parameter for
            temperature in Part C, Section II.H. is exceeded, the owner or operator
            must begin enhanced monitoring of the well according to Part I, Section
            V., and take the following actions while ensuring any attempted corrective
            measure does not cause an exceedance of other operational or
            performance standards. As long as the applicable requirements of Section
            II.I.3.a. are met, the temperature exceedance is not a violation of this
            regulation.

          II.I.3.a.(i)    Initiate corrective action within 5 calendar days of the
                   measured temperature exceedance. If the measured landfill gas
                   temperature is greater than or equal to 76.7ºC (170ºF) and the
                   carbon monoxide concentration measured, according to the
                   procedures in Part I, Section V.A.6., is greater than or equal to
                   1,000 ppmv, the corrective action(s) to achieve the applicable
                   temperature standard must be completed within 15 calendar days
                   of the measured temperature exceedance and a high landfill gas
                   temperature report must be submitted to the Division within 24
                   hours of the measurement, unless a higher operating temperature
                   value for the well has been approved by the Division.



                                                                                    36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.I.3.a.(ii)   If the required operating temperature in Part C, Section II.H.
                        cannot be achieved within 15 calendar days of the measured
                        temperature exceedance, the owner or operator must conduct a
                        root cause analysis within 30 calendar days after the measured
                        temperature exceedance that includes a thorough investigation of
                        the landfill gas collection and control system to determine the
                        primary cause, and any other contributing causes, of the
                        temperature exceedance at the wellhead, and identify each factor
                        investigated, methods used, and alternative causes that were
                        analyzed, and complete corrective action(s) based on the results of
                        the analysis.

               II.I.3.a.(iii)  If completion of corrective action(s) is expected to take
                        longer than 60 calendar days after the measured temperature
                        exceedance, the owner or operator must submit the root cause
                        analysis, corrective action analysis, and proposed implementation
                        schedule for corrective action(s) to the Division within 60 calendar
                        days of the measured temperature exceedance, and obtain Division
                        approval if the proposed schedule for completing corrective
                        action(s) exceeds 120 calendar days from the measured
                        temperature exceedance.

        II.I.4. If monitoring demonstrates that the operational requirements in Part C,
                Section II.G., or II.H. of this section are not met, corrective action must be
                taken as specified in Part C, Sections II.I.2.a. and II.I.3.a. If corrective
                actions are taken as specified in Part C, Section II.I., the monitored
                exceedance is not a violation of the operational requirements in Part C,
                Sections II.G. or II.H.

II.J.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation is exempt from the conditions in Part C, Sections
        II.A.2., II.A.3., and II.G., for individual wells involved in well raising provided the
        following conditions are met.

        II.J.1. All valves to the well are closed during well raising so it is isolated from the
                rest of the gas collection system or the well is capped and the well raising
                and reconnection to a vacuum source is completed within 30 calendar
                days. If additional time is needed to complete the well raising and
                reconnection to a vacuum source, the owner or operator must submit a
                notification to the Division with an estimated timeline for completing these
                activities, which must be approved in writing by the Division.

        II.J.2. New fill is being actively added or compacted in the immediate vicinity
                around the well.

        II.J.3. Once installed, a gas collection well extension is sealed and capped until
                the raised well is reconnected to a vacuum source.




                                                                                             37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.J.4. The owner or operator must maintain records of when a well raising
                begins and is completed, when the raised well is reconnected to a vacuum
                source, the location of the affected well and its identification number,
                actions taken pursuant to the requirements of Part C, Sections II.J.2. and
                II.J.3., as well as the Division’s approval for well raising and vacuum
                reconnection that takes longer than 30 calendar days to complete, if
                applicable.

II.K.   The owner or operator subject to the gas collection and control system
        requirements of this regulation is exempt from the conditions in Part C, Sections
        II.A.2., II.A.3., and II.G., for individual landfill gas collection system components
        that must be temporarily shut down to repair or modify components of the gas
        collection system, for inspection and maintenance of the gas collection and
        control system, to connect new landfill gas collection system components to the
        existing system, to prevent or extinguish landfill fires, or to perform construction
        activities pursuant to Part D, Section I.E., provided the following requirements are
        met.

        II.K.1. Methane emissions are minimized during shutdown pursuant to Part C,
                Section I.B.11., and the owner or operator maintains records of all actions
                taken to minimize gas collection and control system downtime, including
                dates of actions taken, and makes such records available to the Division
                upon request.

        II.K.2. All valves are closed to gas collection system components that are
                temporarily shut down, or those components are disconnected from the
                gas collection system.

        II.K.3. In the event the gas collection or control system is inoperable, the gas
                mover system must be shut down and all valves in the collection and
                control system contributing to venting of landfill gas to the atmosphere
                must be closed immediately using an automatic blower shutdown and
                valve closing.

        II.K.4. Inspection, maintenance, or repair of the gas collection or control system
                must be initiated and completed to minimize downtime, and the gas
                collection and control system must be returned to operation within 3
                calendar days following initial shutdown.




                                                                                           38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

II.L.   For planned shutdowns of a gas collection and control system, a notification of
        the shutdown must be submitted to the Division by the owner or operator at least
        10 calendar days in advance of the shutdown that includes a reason for the
        shutdown, the system component(s) that will require shutdown, and the
        approximate timeline for the shutdown pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.9. If the
        planned shutdown date changes, the owner or operator may proceed with the
        new shutdown date so long as the owner or operator notifies the Division of the
        change as soon as possible in advance of the new shutdown date and identifies
        the reason for the change.

III. Requirement for Gas Control Device Removal, Biofilters, and Permanent
Shutdown of the Gas Collection and Control System

III.A. A gas control device at a closed MSW landfill may be permanently shut down or
       removed after the gas collection and control system has been in operation for at
       least 15 years after the MSW landfill has closed and each of the requirements of
       Part C, Section III.B. have been met. If the criteria and demonstration
       requirements specified in Part C, Section III.B.1. are met before the gas
       collection and control system has operated for 15 years after the landfill has
       closed, the owner or operator must apply to the Division for approval of
       intermittent operation of the gas collection and control system following the
       requirements of Part G, Section I.A.1., and operate the gas control device until
       the requirements of this Part C, Sections III.B.3. - III.B.8. are met.

III.B. An owner or operator of a closed MSW landfill with a gas collection and control
       system that has operated for at least 15 years after the landfill has closed must
       meet all of the following requirements to permanently shut down or remove a gas
       control device at the landfill.

        III.B.1. Demonstrate the landfill gas flow rate and methane concentration cannot
                 support the continuous operation of the gas control device without the use
                 of supplemental fuel, based on the manufacturer’s specifications for the
                 gas control device. The owner or operator must use the gas flow rate
                 measurements required by Part C, Sections II.B.5. or II.C.3., to determine
                 the gas flow rate, and demonstrate the methane concentration of collected
                 gas is less than 30 percent on 3 successive test dates according to the
                 following requirements

              III.B.1.a.    The methane concentration must be determined in
                      accordance with Part I, Section V.A.5.

              III.B.1.b.    The second and third test dates for the methane
                      concentration of the landfill gas must occur at least 90 calendar
                      days but no more than 180 calendar days after the previous test
                      date.




                                                                                          39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              III.B.1.c.     The measurements of the landfill gas to determine the
                      methane concentration must be completed during normal operation
                      of the gas collection and control system without any efforts being
                      made to artificially impact the methane concentration in the landfill
                      gas, and must be conducted after the requirement of Part C,
                      Section III.B.2. has been met.

III.B.2. The gas collection and control system has been comprehensively evaluated to
         determine it is functioning properly and there are no issues impacting its
         operational capabilities, and whether any modifications to the gas control device
         or other actions can be taken to address issues that may be impacting the ability
         of the gas control device to operate continuously.

              III.B.2.a.      The results of the gas collection and control system
                      evaluation must be documented by the owner or operator, and
                      include what was evaluated and why, data used for the evaluation,
                      any actions or modifications taken to address or correct any issues
                      identified based on the evaluation, and the performance of the gas
                      collection and control system and gas control device after any
                      corrective actions or modifications.

              III.B.2.b.      If the gas control device is unable to operate continuously
                      after the requirements of Part C, Section II.B.2.a. have been met,
                      the owner or operator must apply to the Division for approval of
                      intermittent operation of the gas collection and control system
                      following the requirements of Part G, Section I.A.1., and operate
                      the gas control device until the requirements of Part C, Sections
                      III.B.3. - III.B.8. are met.

       III.B.3. Upon approval of intermittent operation of a gas collection and control
                system, the owner or operator must operate the gas control device at least
                until the operational time of the gas collection and control system
                averages less than 25% over a rolling 24-month period, upon which the
                owner or operator must meet the requirements of Part C, Sections III.B.2.,
                III.B.4. - III.B.7., and III.B.8. or III.B.9.

       III.B.4. The landfill’s surface methane concentration measurements do not meet
                or exceed the limits specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., for at
                least four consecutive calendar quarters of surface emissions monitoring.
                The surface methane concentration measurements used for this purpose
                must occur after the requirement of Part C, Section III.B.3. is met.




                                                                                            40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       III.B.5. The concentrations of methane gas at the MSW landfill do not exceed 25
                percent of the lower explosive limit in facility structures at the landfill
                (excluding gas collection and control system components) or five percent
                of the lower explosive limit at the site boundary following monitoring
                requirements approved by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
                Management Division. The methane concentration measurements used
                for this purpose must occur after the requirement of Part C, Section III.B.3.
                is met.

       III.B.6. The owner or operator submits a gas collection and control system
                equipment removal or shutdown request to the Division in accordance with
                Part H, Section II.A.18., which must be approved in writing by the Division
                in order for the gas control device to be removed or permanently shut
                down.

       III.B.7. If there is a permit for the gas control device, the owner or operator
                obtains a modified permit or permit cancellation from the Division that
                reflects the removal or permanent shut down of the gas control device.

       III.B.8. The owner or operator replaces the gas control device with another gas
                control device sized to operate continuously without the use of
                supplemental fuel at the landfill’s gas collection volumes and methane
                concentrations, which may include an open flare, or installs and operates
                a biofilter(s) at the landfill pursuant to the requirements of Part C, Section
                III.C. If a new gas control device or biofilter(s) will be installed, the existing
                gas control device may not be permanently shut down or removed until
                the new gas control device is permitted by the Division, if required, or the
                biofilter(s) is approved and ready to be installed.

       IIl.B.9. If the owner or operator replaces the gas control device with another gas
                control device sized to operate continuously without the use of
                supplemental fuel at the landfill’s gas collection volumes and methane
                concentrations pursuant to Part C, Section III.B.8., the replacement gas
                control device must operate until the requirements of Part C, Section
                III.B.1. have been met, upon which the replacement gas control device
                may be removed or permanently shutdown so long as the requirements of
                Part C, Sections III.B.4. - III.B.7. have also been met and the owner or
                operator installs and operates biofilter(s) at the MSW landfill according
                Part C, Section III.C.

III.C. If an owner or operator will install and operate a biofilter(s) at the landfill, the
       following requirements must be met:

       III.C.1.          A biofilter design and operation plan must be submitted to the
                  Division and the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management
                  Division for approval prior to installation of the biofilter(s), which must
                  address the following:




                                                                                               41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               III.C.1.a.     The oxygen requirements, permeability, gas distribution,
                       moisture content, and operating temperature range necessary for
                       the growth of methanotrophs and methanotrophic activity.

               III.C.1.b.    The landfill gas residence time in the biofilter(s).

               III.C.1.c.      The type of material layer(s) that will be used in the
                       biofilter(s).

               III.C.1.d.      The number, capacity, and surface area of each biofilter
                       needed at the MSW landfill based on the landfill’s methane
                       generation rate and volumes of collected gas, and where the
                       biofilter(s) will be installed at the landfill.

               III.C.1.e.    The monitoring and maintenance procedures to evaluate
                       and address the performance of the biofilter(s).

               III.C.1.f.    The material layer(s) replacement requirements and
                       frequency in the biofilter(s).

               III.C.1.g.   The date(s) the biofilter(s) will be installed at the landfill and
                       become operational.

    III.C.2.          The owner or operator must follow the biofilter design and operation
               plan and maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
               plan. As long as the approved biofilter design and operation plan is
               followed, an owner or operator is in compliance with this Section III.C.

    III.C.3.          The owner or operator must submit a startup notification to the
               Division within 15 calendar days after the biofilters become operational,
               and must submit annual biofilter reports to the Division that includes the
               records required to demonstrate compliance with Part C, Section III.C.1.
               The annual reports must be submitted until the biofilter(s) are no longer
               subject to the operational requirements of this regulation pursuant to Part
               C, Section III.D.

    III.C.4.          The owner or operator must continue to follow the requirements of
               Part D, Sections I. and II., while the biofilter(s) are in operation at the
               MSW landfill until the biofilter(s) are no longer subject to the operational
               requirements of this regulation pursuant to Part C, Section III.D.




                                                                                             42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

III.D. The owner or operator of a closed MSW landfill with a biofilter(s) must operate
       the biofilter(s) until the methane concentration in the inlet landfill gas to the
       biofilter(s) is 10% or less or until the approved post-closure care plan for the
       landfill has been terminated by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
       Management Division, whichever occurs last. A landfill without a post-closure
       care plan or a landfill with a post-closure care plan that was terminated before
       the biofilter(s) were installed, must operate the biofilter(s) until the methane
       concentration in the landfill gas is 10% or less.

       III.D.1.           The methane concentration of the landfill gas must be measured on
                  3 successive dates, with individual test dates separated by at least 90
                  calendar days from each test, and be determined in accordance with Part
                  I, Section V.A.5.

       III.D.2.           The measurement of the landfill gas to determine methane
                  concentration must be completed during normal operation of the gas
                  collection and control system without any efforts being made to artificially
                  impact the methane concentration in the landfill gas.

       III.D.3.           Upon meeting the requirements for no longer having to monitor the
                  biofilter(s), the owner or operator must submit a notification to the Division
                  of meeting the requirements.

PART D     Surface Emissions Monitoring and Gas Collection and Control
System Leak Inspection Requirements

I.     Surface Emissions Monitoring Requirements

I.A.   The owner or operator complying with Part B, Section II.D.3., must complete
       quarterly surface emissions monitoring according to the requirements of Part B,
       Section II.D.3. The owner or operator required to install and operate a gas
       collection and control system pursuant to Part B, Section II., must complete
       periodic surface emissions monitoring of the landfill upon commencing operation
       of a newly installed gas collection and control system at the landfill, or starting no
       later than April 1, 2027 if a gas collection and control system has been installed
       at the landfill prior to January 1, 2026. An MSW landfill subject to the
       requirements of Part C to install and operate a gas collection and control system
       that voluntarily operates a gas collection and control system as of the effective
       date of this regulation, must begin periodic surface emission monitoring of the
       landfill by the deadline in Part C, Section I.C. The owner or operator must
       complete surface emissions monitoring utilizing one of the following approved
       monitoring methods and follow the requirements of Part D, Sections I.B., I.C.,
       and I.D.




                                                                                              43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.A.1. A gas detector instrument that meets the calibration, specifications, and
           performance criteria of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)
           Reference Method 21, Determination of Volatile Organic Compound
           Leaks, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A (as last amended 65 Fed.Reg. 61744
           (October 17, 2000)), which is incorporated by reference herein, except
           “methane” replaces all references to volatile organic compounds (VOC)
           and the calibration gas must be methane, diluted to a nominal
           concentration of 500 parts per million in air. Surface emissions monitoring
           must be performed in accordance with section 8.3.1 of EPA Reference
           Method 21, except that the probe inlet must be placed within 2-4 inches of
           the landfill surface while monitoring is being performed.

    I.A.2. The U.S. EPA’s Other Test Method 51 (OTM-51) - UAS Application of
           Method 21 for Surface Emission Monitoring of Landfills. OTM-51
           (December 14, 2022)

    I.A.3. A handheld methane-specific tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy
           (TDLAS) instrument that follows a Division- or EPA-approved method for
           surface emissions monitoring.

    I.A.4. Any other alternative or other test method approved by the U.S. EPA for
           surface emissions monitoring of landfills.

    I.A.5. A Division-approved alternative monitoring method or program.

          I.A.5.a.      A proposed alternative monitoring method or program may
                 consist of the use of one or more emissions monitoring
                 technologies, which must be identified in the proposed alternative
                 monitoring method or program submitted to the Division.

                 I.A.5.a.(i)    Only emission monitoring technologies that are
                        commercially available for field deployment and have proven
                        or demonstrated success in MSW landfill emissions
                        detection will be considered for approval, including any
                        technologies that meet the requirements of Part D, Sections
                        I.A.1., I.A.2., I.A.3., or I.A.4.

          I.A.5.b.     A proposed alternative monitoring method or program may
                 be submitted to the Division by an owner or operator or an
                 emissions monitoring technology vendor.

          I.A.5.c.      A proposed alternative monitoring method or program
                  submitted to the Division must address the following:

                 I.A.5.c.(i)    The manufacturer name and specifications for the
                         emissions monitoring technology or technologies included in
                         the proposed alternative monitoring method or program.




                                                                                     44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.A.5.c.(ii)    The emissions detection capabilities, reliability, and
                      limitations of the emissions monitoring technology or
                      technologies included in the proposed alternative monitoring
                      method or program including, but not limited to, the ability to
                      identify specific emission sources or locations, detection
                      limits, probability of detection, and any restrictions on use, as
                      well as supporting data for technology performance.

              I.A.5.c.(iii)  The emissions quantification capabilities, if any, of the
                      emissions monitoring technology or technologies included in
                      the proposed alternative monitoring method or program,
                      including how emissions are quantified, frequency of
                      measurements, and what unit(s) of emissions measurement
                      are used.

              I.A.5.c.(iv) The frequency of emissions monitoring that will be
                      performed of an MSW landfill, how the monitoring will be
                      performed, and any requirements or criteria for performing
                      emissions monitoring.

              I.A.5.c.(v)    Data collection, logging, management, and analysis,
                      as well as data quality indicators, for the proposed
                      alternative monitoring method or program.

              I.A.5.c.(vi) Quality control and quality assurance procedures
                      necessary to ensure proper or correct application of the
                      proposed alternative monitoring method or program for an
                      MSW landfill, including but not limited to any technology
                      calibration or maintenance requirements, and technology or
                      method training requirements.

               I.A.5.c.(vii) Whether the proposed alternative instrument
                      monitoring method or program, or the technology or
                      technologies used in the method or program, has been
                      approved for regulatory use for other emissions monitoring
                      requirements or by other regulatory authorities.

              I.A.5.c.(viii) A detailed description of how the proposed alternative
                      monitoring method or program will work or be applied to an
                      MSW landfill, including, but not limited to, emissions alerting
                      criteria and timelines, and specific actions and work
                      practices that will be followed for conducting emissions
                      monitoring and responding to detected emissions.




                                                                                    45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

                    I.A.5.c.(ix) Documentation (e.g., field or test data, modeling)
                            adequate to demonstrate the proposed alternative
                            monitoring method or program is capable of achieving
                            emission reductions that are at least as effective as the
                            emission reductions achieved by using the monitoring
                            methods of Part D, Sections I.A.1., I.A.2., I.A.3., or I.A.4.

                    I.A.5.c.(x)     The information required by Part D, Sections
                            I.A.5.c.(i) - (vii) may be excluded for any monitoring
                            technology included in the proposed alternative monitoring
                            method or program that meets the requirements of Part D,
                            Sections I.A.1., I.A.2., I.A.3., or I.A.4. provided that all other
                            requirements that apply to the use of those technologies in
                            this regulation are followed as part of the proposed
                            alternative monitoring method or program.

             I.A.5.d.      As soon as practicable, the Division will issue a written
                    approval for a proposed alternative monitoring method or program
                    that outlines the conditions for compliance with the alternative
                    monitoring method or program if the Division determines the
                    requirements of Part D, Section I.A.5.c. have been met. An
                    alternative monitoring method or program may not be used to meet
                    the requirements of Part D, Sections I. and II., unless it has been
                    approved by the Division.

I.B.   The entire MSW landfill surface must be divided into individually identified 50,000
       square foot grids that must be used for both instantaneous and integrated
       surface emissions monitoring performed on a quarterly basis per the
       requirements of Part D, Sections I.C. and I.D., or according to the requirements
       of an alternative monitoring method approved pursuant to Part D, Sections I.A.4.
       or I.A.5. The quarterly monitoring must be separated by at least 30 calendar days
       from one quarter to the next unless approved by the Division under Part G.

       I.B.1. A surface emissions monitoring plan must be developed and updated as
              needed that includes a topographical map showing the site boundary and
              the location of the grids and the gas collection and control system as well
              as monitoring route(s) and any areas of the landfill that have been
              approved by the Division to be excluded from monitoring.

       I.B.2. The monitoring pattern performed at the landfill must be no more than a
              25-foot spacing interval and must traverse each monitoring grid.




                                                                                             46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.B.2.a.      If no measured emissions meet or exceed the limits
                 specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., after any four
                 consecutive quarterly monitoring periods, the monitoring pattern
                 may be increased to 100-foot spacing intervals at the next
                 monitoring period and each monitoring period thereafter unless Part
                 D, Section I.B.2.b. applies.

          I.B.2.b.      If any measured emissions meet or exceed the limits
                 specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., including during a
                 compliance inspection of the MSW landfill or any surface emissions
                 monitoring conducted pursuant to the requirements of Part E,
                 Section I.B.3., the monitoring pattern must return to a 25-foot
                 spacing interval at the next monitoring period.

          I.B.2.c.       For the purposes of this Section I.B.2., measured emissions
                  do not include those from a cover penetration or within a 3-foot
                  radius of a cover penetration.

    I.B.3. All MSW landfill surface areas with cover penetrations, distressed
           vegetation, cracks, or seeps must also be monitored using an approved
           monitoring method.

    I.B.4. If there are no measured exceedances of the limits specified in Part D,
           Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., after any four consecutive quarterly monitoring
           periods at a closed or inactive MSW landfill, periodic monitoring at the
           landfill may move to a semi-annual basis. If there are no measured
           exceedances of the limits specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2.,
           after any two consecutive semi-annual monitoring periods at a closed or
           inactive MSW landfill, periodic monitoring at the landfill may move to an
           annual basis. Any measured exceedances of the limits specified in Part D,
           Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., during the semi-annual or annual monitoring or a
           compliance inspection of a closed or inactive MSW landfill will result in a
           return to quarterly monitoring of the landfill.

    I.B.5. Surface emissions monitoring must not be conducted or must be stopped
           when the wind speed exceeds 15 miles per hour.

          I.B.5.a.       The Division may approve alternatives to the wind speed
                 limits for MSW landfills that consistently have measured winds in
                 excess of the limit, or for approved alternative monitoring methods
                 pursuant to Part D, Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5.

          I.B.5.b.      The wind speed must be recorded during the monitoring
                 event using an on-site anemometer with a continuous recorder and
                 data logger for the entire duration of the monitoring event.




                                                                                   47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

             I.B.5.c.      A wind barrier must be used that surrounds the emissions
                     monitor of a gas detector instrument being used for EPA Reference
                     Method 21 if average wind speed exceeds 4 miles per hour, as
                     determined on a 5-minute average, or instantaneous wind speed
                     exceeds 10 miles per hour, and the surface emissions monitoring is
                     being performed pursuant to Part B, Section II.D.3.

       I.B.6. Barometric pressure at the MSW landfill must be recorded at the
              beginning and end of the surface emissions monitoring event.

I.C.   Instantaneous surface emissions monitoring of the MSW landfill must be
       performed according to the following requirements.

       I.C.1. All instantaneous surface emissions monitoring readings of methane 200
              ppmv or greater if using the approved monitoring methods under Part D,
              Sections I.A.1., or I.A.2., or 200 ppm-m or greater if using the approved
              monitoring method under Part D, Section I.A.3., other than non-
              repeatable, momentary readings, must be recorded, along with their
              location.

             I.C.1.a.       Instantaneous surface emissions monitoring readings that
                    meet the requirements of Part D, Section I.C.1., must be monitored
                    in at least a five-foot radius around the emissions detection location
                    to determine the extent of the methane leak.

       I.C.2. Locations on the surface area of the MSW landfill that meet or exceed a
              methane concentration limit of 500 ppmv if using the approved monitoring
              methods under Part D, Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2., or 500 ppm-m if using the
              approved monitoring method under Part D, Section I.A.3., must be
              addressed through the following actions.

             I.C.2.a.     The location of each measured exceedance must be marked
                    and the location and concentration recorded.

             I.C.2.b.       The location of each measured exceedance must be
                    recorded using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 13 feet,
                    and the location coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at
                    least five decimal places.

             I.C.2.c.       Corrective action(s) to address the measured exceedance
                    such as, but not limited to, cover maintenance or repair, and well
                    vacuum adjustments must be initiated no later than 5 calendar days
                    after the measured exceedance and completed no later than 10
                    calendar days after the measured exceedance. As long as the
                    applicable requirements of Section I.C.2. are met, the exceedance
                    is not a violation of this regulation.




                                                                                       48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.C.2.d.        The location of the measured exceedance and area around
                the location covering a five-foot radius must be monitored within 10
                calendar days of a measured exceedance to verify the success of
                the corrective action(s). In the event that wind speed at the landfill
                exceeds the limit in Part D, Section I.B.5. during re-monitoring
                completed under Part D, Sections I.C.2.d. and I.C.2.e., at least one
                other re-monitoring event within forty calendar days of the initial
                exceedance must be conducted when wind speed at the landfill
                complies with the limit in Part D, Section I.B.5. Alternatively, the
                landfill may comply with this Section I.C.2.d. by using a wind barrier
                during re-monitoring in accordance with section 8.3.1 of EPA
                Reference Method 21, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-7 (May 30,
                2023), which is incorporated by reference herein, except “methane”
                replaces all references to volatile organic compounds, and the
                probe inlet and wind barrier must be placed within 2-4 inches of the
                landfill surface while re-monitoring is being performed.

                I.C.2.d.(i)    If re-monitoring shows a second exceedance at or
                       within a five-foot radius of the original measured
                       exceedance, follow the requirements of Part D, Sections
                       I.C.2.c. and I.C.2.d. If re-monitoring shows no exceedance,
                       follow the requirements of Part D, Section I.C.2.e.

                I.C.2.d.(ii)   If re-monitoring shows a third exceedance at or within
                       a five-foot radius of the original measured exceedance, a
                       new or replacement gas collection well or device must be
                       installed no later than 120 calendar days after the initial
                       exceedance is detected and the Division must be notified of
                       this in writing within 30 calendar days after the third
                       exceedance. An alternative remedy to the exceedance, such
                       as upgrading the blower, header pipes or control device, and
                       a corresponding timeline for installation may be submitted to
                       the Division for approval within 30 calendar days after the
                       third exceedance. For areas of the MSW landfill that do not
                       have gas collection, nothing in this section requires
                       installation of a new gas collection well or device sooner
                       than what is required by Part C, Section I.H.

         I.C.2.e.        If the initial re-monitoring completed under Part D, Section
                I.C.2.d. results in a measurement below the methane concentration
                limit in Part D, Section I.C.2., the location of the initial measured
                exceedance and area around the location covering a five-foot
                radius must be re-monitored within one month of the initial
                exceedance.




                                                                                   49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

                    I.C.2.e.(i)   If the one-month re-monitoring results in a
                           measurement below the methane concentration limit in Part
                           D, Section I.C.2., no further monitoring of that location and
                           affected area is required until the next required monitoring
                           event.

                    I.C.2.e.(ii)  If the one-month re-monitoring results in a
                           measurement at or above the methane concentration limit in
                           Part D, Section I.C.2., follow the requirements of Part D,
                           Sections I.C.2.c. and I.C.2.d.

                    I.C.2.e.(iii) If re-monitoring shows a third exceedance, follow the
                           requirements of Part D, Section I.C.2.d.(ii).

I.D.   Integrated surface emissions monitoring of the MSW landfill must be performed
       according to the following procedures and requirements.

       I.D.1. All surface readings must be recorded and then averaged for each grid at
              the MSW landfill. The data recording frequency must be one reading per
              second of the emissions concentration and location coordinates in decimal
              degrees.

       I.D.2. Individual monitoring grids that meet or exceed an average methane
              concentration limit of 25 ppmv if using the approved monitoring methods
              under Part D, Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2., or 25 ppm-m if using the approved
              monitoring method under Part D, Section I.A.3., must be addressed
              through the following actions.

             I.D.2.a.       Corrective action(s) to address the measured exceedance
                    such as, but not limited to, cover maintenance or repair, and well
                    vacuum adjustments must be initiated no later than 5 calendar days
                    after the measured exceedance and completed no later than 10
                    calendar days after the measured exceedance. As long as the
                    applicable requirements of Section I.D.2. are met, the exceedance
                    is not a violation of this regulation.




                                                                                       50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

             I.D.2.b.      The grid must be re-monitored within 10 calendar days of a
                    measured exceedance. In the event that wind speed at the landfill
                    exceeds the limit in Part D, Section I.B.5. during re-monitoring
                    completed under this Section I.D.2.b., at least one other re-
                    monitoring event within forty calendar days of the initial exceedance
                    must be conducted when wind speed at the landfill complies with
                    the limit in Part D, Section I.B.5. Alternatively, the landfill may
                    comply with this Section I.D.2.b. by using a wind barrier during re-
                    monitoring in accordance with section 8.3.1 of EPA Reference
                    Method 21, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-7 (May 30, 2023), which is
                    incorporated by reference herein, except “methane” replaces all
                    references to volatile organic compounds, and the probe inlet and
                    wind barrier must be placed within 2-4 inches of the landfill surface
                    while re-monitoring is being performed.

                    I.D.2.b.(i)    If re-monitoring shows a second exceedance of the
                           grid, the owner or operator must follow the requirements of
                           Part D, Sections I.D.2.a. and I.D.2.b.

                    I.D.2.b.(ii)   If re-monitoring shows a third exceedance, a new or
                           replacement gas collection well or device must be installed
                           no later than 120 calendar days after the initial exceedance
                           is detected and the Division must be notified of this in writing
                           within 30 calendar days after the third exceedance. An
                           alternative remedy to the exceedance, such as upgrading
                           the blower, header pipes or control device, and a
                           corresponding timeline for installation may be submitted to
                           the Division for approval within 30 calendar days after the
                           third exceedance. For areas of the MSW landfill that do not
                           have gas collection, nothing in this section requires
                           installation of a new gas collection well or device sooner
                           than what is required by Part C, Section I.H.

I.E.   The requirements of Part D, Sections I.C. and I.D. do not apply to the following
       areas of the MSW landfill provided these areas are kept to the minimum size and
       minimum time duration as possible for the specified activity and measures are
       taken to minimize methane emissions and other potential air quality impacts.

       I.E.1. The working face of the MSW landfill if the size of the working face is
              minimized based on the volume of incoming waste at the landfill. All areas
              of the working face under daily cover where no active waste unloading or
              placement is occurring are still subject to the requirements of Part D,
              Sections I.C. and I.D. The surface of the haul road to the working face and
              areas of the landfill with restricted asbestos disposal may also be
              excluded from surface emissions monitoring.




                                                                                        51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.E.2. Areas of the MSW landfill surface where the landfill cover material has
           been removed for the purpose of installing, expanding, replacing, or
           repairing components of the landfill cover system, the landfill gas
           collection and control system, the leachate collection and removal system,
           or a landfill gas condensate collection and removal system, or in
           preparation for moving or expanding the working face if removing
           intermediate cover.

           I.E.2.a.       If surface emissions monitoring is not, or will not be,
                  performed within 90 calendar days in an area of the landfill as a
                  result of one of the activities in Section I.E.2., other than
                  preparation for expanding the working face by removing
                  intermediate cover, the owner or operator must provide a
                  notification to the Division no later than 90 calendar days after the
                  activity has begun indicating when the activity will be completed
                  and surface emissions monitoring of the area will begin again.

           I.E.2.b.      If the activity is expected to take longer than 120 calendar
                  days to complete, the Division must approve the activity completion
                  date and date surface emissions monitoring of the area will begin
                  again.

    I.E.3. Areas of the MSW landfill surface where the landfill cover material has
           been removed for law enforcement activities requiring excavation. The
           requirements of Part D, Sections I.E.2.a. and I.E.2.b. also apply for this
           activity.

    I.E.4. Areas of the MSW landfill that are unsafe to monitor. Examples of
           conditions that would cause an area of the MSW landfill to be unsafe to
           monitor include, but are not limited to, snow- or ice-covered slopes, slopes
           covered with temporary or final plastic covers that become slippery
           following a precipitation event, areas with active construction or
           maintenance activities, or roads with frequent presence of vehicles (e.g.
           bulldozers, compactors, 6x6 trucks, semi-trucks).

           I.E.4.a.      The owner or operator must provide for an alternative
                  monitoring option for area(s) of the landfill that are deemed unsafe
                  to monitor, which may include, but is not limited to, performing
                  surface emissions monitoring during the next quarterly monitoring
                  period when the area is no longer unsafe to monitor or utilizing
                  other monitoring technologies or methods for those area(s) that do
                  not present safety issues for the individual(s) performing or involved
                  in the monitoring.




                                                                                        52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               I.E.4.b.       If surface emissions monitoring is not, or will not be,
                      performed in an area within 90 calendar days of being deemed
                      unsafe to monitor or by the next quarterly monitoring period, the
                      owner or operator must provide a notification to the Division no later
                      than 90 calendar days after the area has been deemed unsafe to
                      monitor indicating when surface emissions monitoring of the area
                      will occur and how monitoring will be performed according to the
                      alternative monitoring option for the unsafe area pursuant to Part D,
                      Section I.E.4.a. If surface emission monitoring will not occur in the
                      next quarterly monitoring period after an area of the MSW landfill
                      has been deemed unsafe to monitor, the Division must approve the
                      monitoring date.

II.     Gas Collection and Control System Leak Inspection Requirements

II.A.   The owner or operator required to install and operate a gas collection and
        control system pursuant to Part B, Section II., must perform quarterly leak
        monitoring of all components operating under positive pressure, and leachate
        collection riser(s) and knock-out drums upon commencing operation of a newly
        installed gas collection and control system at the landfill, or starting no later than
        April 1, 2027 if a gas collection and control system has been installed at the
        landfill prior to January 1, 2026. If passive gas collection is used for purposes of
        meeting the biofilter requirements in Part C, Section III.C., all components must
        be monitored. If no component leaks are detected after any four consecutive
        quarterly monitoring periods at a closed or inactive MSW landfill, periodic
        component leak monitoring may move to a semi-annual basis. If no leaks are
        detected after any two consecutive semi-annual monitoring periods at a closed or
        inactive MSW landfill, periodic component leak monitoring at the landfill may
        move to an annual basis. Any component leaks detected during the semi-annual
        or annual monitoring or a compliance inspection of a closed or inactive MSW
        landfill will result in a return to quarterly component leak monitoring.

        II.A.1. The owner or operator must complete component leak monitoring utilizing
                one of the following approved monitoring methods.

               II.A.1.a.       A gas detector instrument that meets the calibration,
                       specifications, and performance criteria of the U.S. Environmental
                       Protection Agency’s (EPA) Reference Method 21, Determination of
                       Volatile Organic Compound Leaks, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A
                       (as last amended 65 Fed.Reg. 61744 (October 17, 2000)), which is
                       incorporated by reference herein, except “methane” replaces all
                       references to volatile organic compounds (VOC) and the calibration
                       gas must be methane, diluted to a nominal concentration of 500
                       parts per million in air. Component leak monitoring must be
                       measure the concentration of methane one half of an inch or less
                       from a component source or within three inches above the surface
                       of a vault exposed to the atmosphere.



                                                                                           53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.1.b.      A handheld methane-specific tunable diode laser absorption
                   spectroscopy (TDLAS) instrument that follows a Division- or EPA-
                   approved method for component leak monitoring.

           II.A.1.c.      Optical Gas Imaging equipment that meets the following
                   requirements:

                  II.A.1.c.(i)   Must be capable of imaging gases in the spectral
                          range for the compound of highest concentration in potential
                          component leak emissions; and

                  II.A.1.c.(ii) Must be capable of imaging a gas that is half
                          methane, half propane at a concentration of 10,000 ppm at a
                          flow rate of ≤ 60 grams per hour from a quarter inch
                          diameter orifice.

           II.A.1.d.      Any other alternative or other test method approved by the
                   U.S. EPA for component leak monitoring.

           II.A.1.e.     A Division-approved alternative monitoring method or
                   program as specified in Part D, Section I.A.5.c. that allows for
                   component leak monitoring.

    II.A.2. The owner or operator must develop and update as needed a component
            leak monitoring plan that identifies all equipment and components of the
            gas collection and control system that require leak monitoring with a
            sitemap showing the location of the equipment and components.

    II.A.3. Component leak monitoring must not be conducted of components not
            located within an enclosed structure or area at the MSW landfill when the
            wind speed exceeds 15 miles per hour determined according to the
            requirements of Part D, Section I.B.5.a. The Division may approve
            alternatives to the wind speed limit for MSW landfills that consistently have
            measured winds in excess of the limit, or for approved alternative
            monitoring methods pursuant to Part D, Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5.

    II.A.4. All component leaks of methane 500 ppmv or greater if using the
            approved monitoring method under Part D, Section II.A.1.a., or 500 ppm-
            m or greater if using the approved monitoring method under Part D,
            Section II.A.1.b., must be tagged, recorded, and repaired. All component
            leaks detected if using the approved monitoring method under Part D,
            Section II.A.1.c., must be tagged, recorded, and repaired. The component
            leak threshold for tagging, recording, and repair if using the approved
            monitoring methods under Part D, Sections II.A.1.d. or II.A.1.e. will be
            specified or determined according to the approved method. As long as the
            applicable requirements of Section II.A.4. are met, the component leak is
            not a violation of this regulation.




                                                                                      54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              II.A.4.a.     First attempt to repair a leak must be made no later than 5
                      calendar days after discovery and completed no later than 15
                      calendar days after discovery, unless parts or replacement
                      equipment needed for repair are unavailable.

              II.A.4.b.      If parts or replacement equipment for repair are unavailable,
                      they must be ordered promptly and the repair must be initiated
                      within 5 calendar days of receipt of the parts or replacement
                      equipment and completed within 15 calendar days of receipt of the
                      parts or equipment.

              II.A.4.c.       A repaired leaks must be re-monitored within 15 calendar
                      days after the leak was discovered, or 15 calendar days after the
                      receipt of parts or equipment to repair the leak if Part D, Section
                      II.A.4.b. applies to verify that the repair was effective, unless the
                      wind speed at the landfill exceeds the limit in Part D, Section II.A.3.
                      on the re-monitoring deadline, the repaired component is not within
                      an enclosed structure or area at the landfill, and re-monitoring has
                      not occurred before the re-monitoring deadline to verify the repair
                      was effective, in which case the re-monitoring deadline will be
                      extended by one calendar day or the next working day for every
                      day the wind speed limit cannot be met at the landfill.

       II.A.5. Component leak monitoring at MSW landfills which combust landfill gas
               for energy production, or which treat landfill gas for other beneficial uses,
               must be conducted prior to scheduled maintenance or planned outage
               periods if the maintenance or planned outage periods would conflict with
               the quarterly monitoring schedule.

PART E        Remote Methane Monitoring Requirements

I.     Remote Methane Monitoring Notifications and Responses

I.A.   The Division will issue a notification to the owner or operator of an MSW landfill
       of a qualified methane emissions detection(s) at or from the landfill that has been
       obtained from remote methane monitoring carried out by third parties or at the
       direction of the Division according to guidelines developed by the Division for
       evaluating remote methane monitoring detections and the following
       requirements.

       I.A.1. The technology used for the remote methane monitoring has been
              approved by the Division or the technology has obtained third-party
              certification under the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s
              (EPA) Methane Super Emitter Program pursuant to 40 CFR, §
              60.5371b(b) (August 1, 2024). The process for approval of remote
              methane monitoring technologies by the Division will consider the
              following:




                                                                                           55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.A.1.a.      Ability to identify and localize methane emissions that
                     originate from a specific location or area at an MSW landfill.

              I.A.1.b.      Demonstrated past performance of methane emissions
                     detection from MSW landfills with accessible data in the public
                     domain.

              I.A.1.c.       Ability to quantify methane emission rates and their
                      uncertainties using established methodologies and publicly
                      available quality assurance and quality control protocols.

              I.A.1.d           Ability to detect methane emissions without physical access
                         to the MSW landfill.

              I.A.1.e.     Evaluation of the accuracy and performance of a technology
                     through controlled release testing at an MSW landfill.

       I.A.2. The notification will be sent electronically to the owner or operator of the
              MSW landfill within 7 business days of the Division receiving the
              monitoring data and will contain the following information.

              I.A.2.a.         An emissions detection identification number.

              I.A.2.b.         The landfill’s name and owner or operator.

              I.A.2.c.         The landfill’s AIRS ID, if one has been assigned to it.

              I.A.2.d.     The latitude and longitude coordinates where the emissions
                     appear to be originating from at the landfill.

              I.A.2.e.        A visualization of the detected emissions at or from the
                     landfill and the estimated emissions rate and measurement
                     uncertainty.

              I.A.2.f.         Details of the emissions detection methodology used by the
                         remote monitoring platform responsible for the emissions detection.

              I.A.2.g.         The date and time of the emissions detection(s).

I.B.   The owner or operator of an MSW landfill must investigate a notification of
       methane emissions detection(s) at or from the landfill obtained from remote
       methane monitoring within 5 calendar days of receiving the notification from the
       Division according to the following requirements.




                                                                                             56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.B.1. Review any activities at the landfill, including but not limited to
           construction, maintenance, repair, or process activities, and gas collection
           and control system operation and downtime, if applicable, that occurred
           starting from at least one week prior to the initial date of the emissions
           detection as identified in the notification until the date of investigation to
           determine if the activities indicate any potential source(s) or cause of the
           emissions.

    I.B.2. Review all monitoring data or results required to be tracked and
           maintained under this regulation that the owner or operator is subject to
           for the period leading up to the initial date of the emissions detection
           identified in the notification until the date of investigation, to help
           determine any potential source(s) or cause of the emissions. Monitoring
           data reviewed must be for at least the most recent required monitoring
           that was performed under this regulation.

    I.B.3. Unless the owner or operator of an MSW landfill with a gas collection and
           control system has records that can demonstrate the detected emissions
           are or were the result of a defined activity or situation that has ceased or
           been addressed or is being addressed, the owner or operator must
           perform emissions monitoring of the area(s) of the landfill, excluding the
           active area of the working face, as well as any gas collection and control
           equipment located in those grid(s) or area(s), where the detected
           emissions were identified or originated from using an approved monitoring
           method under Part D, Section I.A. that is capable of localizing specific
           source(s) of emissions in order to perform any required mitigation
           measures pursuant to the requirements of Part D, Sections I.C.2., I.D.2.,
           or II.A.4.

    I.B.4. The owner or operator of an MSW landfill that has a methane generation
           rate greater than or equal to 664 metric tons (732 short tons) per year, as
           determined using the procedures in Part I, Section III., that does not have
           a gas collection and control system installed at the landfill, including
           inactive or closed landfills that have met the requirements of Part B,
           Section II.D.3.e., must perform surface emissions monitoring of area(s) of
           the landfill where the detected emissions were identified or originated
           from, excluding the active area of the working face, using an approved
           monitoring method under Part D, Sections I.A. that is capable of localizing
           specific source(s) of emissions. Based on the monitoring results, the
           owner or operator must comply with the requirements of Part B, Section
           II.D.3.a., or Part B, Section II.F.1., if the MSW landfill closed before
           January 1, 1996, if applicable, unless Part B, Sections II.D.2.b., II.E.2., or
           II.F.2.a., apply, in which case only the requirements of Part D, Sections
           I.C.2.c. or I.D.2.a., must be followed if applicable.




                                                                                       57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.B.5. Perform any necessary corrective actions based on the investigation to
              address or mitigate the cause of the emissions.

       I.B.6. If the owner or operator performs surface emissions monitoring at an
              MSW landfill in response to a remote methane monitoring notification, the
              owner or operator is only required to perform a single surface emissions
              monitoring event, as long as it covers the area(s) where the detected
              emissions were identified or originated from, and any re-monitoring if
              necessary, to comply with this Part E, Section I.B.

I.C.   The owner or operator of an MSW landfill conducting an investigation pursuant to
       Section I.B. must report the results of the investigation and any corrective actions
       to the Division within 15 calendar days of receiving the notification using a
       Division-approved form. The report must include the following.

       I.C.1. The information required under Part E, Sections I.A.2.a. - c.

       I.C.2. A summary of the investigation and its findings, including all activities and
              monitoring data reviewed, and whether the source(s) of the detected
              emissions at the landfill were identified or confirmed, and if so, a
              description of the source(s). If no source(s) were identified or confirmed as
              the cause of the emissions, provide a summary of which sources(s) or
              activities may have contributed to the emissions based on the
              investigation.

       I.C.3. All corrective actions or mitigation measures taken, when they were
              completed and their results, and how and when the results were verified.

       I.C.4. If the detected emissions are ongoing at the time of submitting this report,
              a summary of corrective actions or mitigation measures that will be
              completed and the anticipated completion date(s).

       I.C.5. A follow-up report must be submitted to the Division using a Division-
              approved form within 7 calendar days of the corrective actions or
              mitigation measures being completed that includes the information
              required under Part E, Sections I.C.1. and I.C.3.

I.D.   In completing any corrective actions or mitigation measures to address a remote
       methane monitoring emissions detection, the owner or operator of the MSW
       landfill must comply with all applicable requirements of this regulation.




                                                                                        58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

PART F         Cover Requirements

I.      Intermediate and Final Cover Requirements

I.A.    The owner or operator of an active MSW landfill with a gas collection and control
        system must use a biocover or a cover that incorporates a biocover for new
        intermediate cover installed on or after July 1, 2026 that is or will be in place for
        longer than 180 calendar days at the landfill subject to approval as an alternative
        cover by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division.

        I.A.1. The intermediate cover containing or incorporating a biocover may also
               include a permeable gas distribution layer, such as gravel, sand, or
               crushed stone, below the biocover or methane oxidation layer subject to
               approval by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management
               Division.

        I.A.2. The request to use or include a biocover as intermediate cover submitted
               to the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division
               must address requirements necessary for the growth of methanotrophs
               and methanotrophic activity in the biocover, such as but not limited to
               oxygen requirements, permeability, temperature, moisture management,
               and biocover maintenance and replacement as necessary, which must be
               followed by the owner or operator when installing and operating the
               biocover upon approval from the Colorado Hazardous Materials and
               Waste Management Division.

I.B.    The owner or operator of an active MSW landfill with a gas collection and control
        system must apply at least 18 inches of earthen material or other suitable
        material over solid waste for any intermediate cover that is installed at the landfill
        on or after July 1, 2026 subject to approval by the Colorado Hazardous Materials
        and Waste Management Division. This requirement may be used in place of
        meeting the requirement of Part F, Section I.A. The owner or operator must
        follow the cover integrity requirements for the intermediate cover installed at the
        landfill.

I.C.    The owner or operator of an MSW landfill is prohibited from using petroleum
        contaminated soils or soils containing volatile organic compounds for
        intermediate or final cover at the landfill.

II.     Cover Integrity Requirements

II.A.   The owner or operator of an active or inactive MSW landfill with waste-in-place
        greater than or equal to 450,000 short tons must implement a program to monitor
        for cover integrity and implement cover repairs or maintenance as necessary on
        a monthly basis upon the landfill reaching 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place
        after December 31, 2025, or no later than July 1, 2026 if the landfill has at least
        450,000 short tons of waste-in-place by December 31, 2025.




                                                                                            59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       II.A.1. The cover integrity program must include protocols and procedures to
               identify and address issues such as, but not limited to, exposed waste,
               leachate breakouts, and erosion gullies.

       II.A.2. Nothing in this Part F supersedes more stringent intermediate and final
               cover requirements for an MSW landfill promulgated by the Colorado Solid
               and Hazardous Waste Commission and the Engineering Design and
               Operations Plan requirements approved for the landfill by the Colorado
               Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division.

PART G       Alternative Compliance Options

I.     Alternative Compliance Request Requirements

I.A.   The owner or operator may request alternatives to the requirements of Parts C,
       D, or I, or Part F, Sections I.A. or I.B., of this regulation. Any alternative
       compliance options requested by the owner or operator must be submitted in
       writing to the Division for review and may not be implemented unless approved
       by the Division in writing. Alternative compliance options to Part F, Sections I.A.
       or I.B., are also subject to approval by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and
       Waste Management Division. Alternative compliance option requests may
       include, but are not limited to, the following, except for proposed alternative
       monitoring methods or programs to meet the requirements of Part D, which must
       be considered according to the requirements of Part D, Section I.A.5.

       I.A.1. Intermittent operation of the gas collection and control system without the
              use of supplemental fuel to operate the gas control device due to landfill
              gas flow rates and methane concentrations insufficient to maintain
              continuous operation of the gas collection and control system. The owner
              or operator must use the gas flow rate measurements required by Part C,
              Sections II.B.5. or II.C.3., to determine the gas flow rate as and methane
              concentration must be as determined according to Part I, Section V.A.5.

             I.A.1.a.      Prior to submitting a request, the owner or operator must
                    conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the gas collection and
                    control system to determine it is functioning properly and there no
                    issues impacting its operational capabilities, and whether any
                    modifications to the gas control device or other actions can be
                    taken to address issues that may be impacting the ability of the gas
                    control device to operate continuously.




                                                                                         60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.A.1.b.       The results of the gas collection and control system
                     evaluation must be documented by the owner or operator and
                     include what was evaluated and why, data used for the evaluation,
                     any actions or modifications taken to address or correct any issues
                     identified based on the evaluation, and the performance of the gas
                     collection and control system and gas control device after any
                     corrective actions or modifications.

              I.A.1.c.         The alternative compliance request must include the results
                      of the evaluation required by Part G, Section I.A.1.b., along with a
                      proposed process, including gas collection and control system
                      operating parameters, such as gas collection system pressure,
                      landfill gas composition, or other measurable parameters, and the
                      monitoring frequency for the parameters, that will be used to
                      determine the operation frequency of the gas collection and control
                      system.

       I.A.2. Alternative wind speed requirements for surface emissions monitoring and
              gas collection and control system leak inspections for MSW landfills
              consistently having winds in excess of the limit specified in Part D,
              Sections I.B.5. and II.A.3.

I.B.   The criteria that the Division may use to evaluate alternative compliance requests
       include, but are not limited to:

       I.B.1. The MSW landfill’s compliance history.

       I.B.2. Documentation containing the MSW landfill gas flow rate and measured
              methane concentrations for individual gas collection wells or components.

       I.B.3. Manufacturer’s specifications for the gas control device.

       I.B.4. Permits issued for the MSW landfill.

       I.B.5. Surface emissions monitoring and gas collection and control system leak
              inspection results.

       I.B.6. Gas collection and control system operation, maintenance, and inspection
              records.

       I.B.7. Historical meteorological data.

       I.B.8. Consistency with EPA-approved test methods and procedures.

I.C.   The owner or operator seeking an alternative compliance option in accordance
       with the provisions of this regulation must provide information satisfactory to the
       Division demonstrating that:




                                                                                         61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.C.1. Off-site migration of landfill gas is being, and will be, effectively controlled.

       I.C.2. The proposed alternatives provide an equivalent or more stringent level of
              performance, enforceability, or methane emission control, as compared
              with the requirements of this regulation it seeks to replace.

PART H        Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

I.     Recordkeeping Requirements

I.A.   An owner or operator subject to this regulation must maintain the following
       records for at least five years and provide them to the Division upon request.

       I.A.1. The monthly solid waste acceptance in short tons for active MSW landfills
              or MSW landfills that have accepted waste within the last 5 years, unless
              the landfill exceeded 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place prior to January
              1, 2021. The owner or operator of an MSW landfill that exceeds 450,000
              short tons of waste-in-place on or after January 1, 2021 is no longer
              subject to this monthly waste acceptance recordkeeping requirement five
              years after the landfill has exceeded 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place.

       I.A.2. The current amount of waste-in-place and the waste composition with
              supporting documentation. Adequate supporting documentation must
              include the waste characterization procedures and recordkeeping format
              used, and is subject to Division review and approval.

       I.A.3. For the owner or operator of an MSW landfill who converts waste-in-place
              from volume to mass, records of the annual recalculation of site-specific
              density, design capacity, and the supporting documentation.

       I.A.4. The date of initial placement of waste in newly constructed landfill cells.

       I.A.5. If a bioreactor is utilized, the bioreactor moisture content calculations,
              including the basis of any assumptions made to make such calculations.

       I.A.6. If using EPA Method 21 to meet the requirements of Part B, Section
              II.D.3., for determining installation of a gas collection and control system at
              an MSW landfill, records of all surface emissions monitoring completed
              pursuant to Part B, Section II.D.3., as well as the following information:

              I.A.6.a.      All monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to
                     sections 8 and 10 of EPA Method 21 of appendix A of 40 C.F.R.
                     Part 60, including all of the following items:

                     I.A.6.a.(i)  The date of each monitoring instrument calibration
                            and the initials of the operator performing the calibration.




                                                                                             62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

                I.A.6.a.(ii)  Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification
                       date, and certified concentration.

                I.A.6.a.(iii)   Instrument scale(s) used.

                I.A.6.a.(iv) A description of any corrective action taken if the
                       meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the
                       calibration gas value.

                I.A.6.a.(v)   If an owner or operator makes their own calibration
                       gas, a description of the procedure(s) used.

         I.A.6.b.      Digital photographs of the instrument setup, including the
                wind barrier. The photographs must be accurately time and date-
                stamped and taken at the first sampling location prior to sampling
                and at the last sampling location after sampling at the end of each
                sampling day.

         I.A.6.c.        Timestamp of each surface scan reading which must be
                 detailed to the nearest second, based on when the sample
                 collection begins and log for the length of time each sample was
                 taken using a stopwatch (e.g., the time the probe was held over the
                 area) or the timestamp recorded by the monitoring instrument.

         I.A.6.d.      Location coordinates of each surface scan reading. The
                owner or operator must determine the coordinates using an
                instrument with an accuracy of at least four meters. Coordinates
                must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.

         I.A.6.e.        Monitored methane concentration (ppmv) of each reading.

         I.A.6.f. Background methane concentration (ppmv) after each instrument
                  calibration test.

         I.A.6.g.       For readings taken at each surface penetration, the unique
                identification location label matching the label specified in Part H,
                Section I.A.6.d.

         I.A.6.h.      Records of the operating hours of the gas collection system
                for each destruction device.

         I.A.6.i. For each reading conducted as a result of re-monitoring:

                I.A.6.i.(i)     Identification of whether the reading is a second or
                        third re-monitoring effort;

                I.A.6.i.(ii)    The records required by Sections I.A.6.b. - g.




                                                                                       63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.A.7. All gas collection system downtime including dates of downtime, individual
           well shutdown and disconnection duration, the reason for the downtime,
           and any corrective actions conducted in response to the downtime.

    I.A.8. All gas control system downtime, including the reason for the downtime,
           the start and length of time the gas control system was shutdown, and any
           corrective actions conducted in response to the downtime.

    I.A.9. Records of the gas control system equipment operating parameters
           required to be monitored under Part C, Sections II.B., II.C. or II.E., as well
           as records for periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries
           established during the most recent performance test are exceeded. The
           records must also include the following information:

           I.A.9.a.     For enclosed flares, continuous temperature monitoring
                  records and all three-hour periods of operation during which the
                  average temperature was more than 28ºC (or 82º F) below the
                  average combustion temperature during the most recent
                  performance test.

           I.A.9.b.       For a boiler or process heater with a design heat input
                  capacity of 44 megawatts (150 MMBtu/hr) or greater, all periods of
                  operation of the boiler or process heater (e.g., steam use, fuel use,
                  or monitoring data collected pursuant to other federal, State, local,
                  or tribal regulatory requirements).

           I.A.9.c.        For boilers or process heaters, whenever there is a change
                   in the location at which the landfill gas stream is introduced into the
                   flame zone pursuant to Part C, Section II.E.1.

           I.A.9.d.     For open flares, continuous records of the flame or flare pilot
                  flame monitoring, and up-to-date, readily accessible records of all
                  periods of operation in which the flame or flare pilot flame is absent.

           I.A.9.e.      For the gas control system, the indication of flow in standard
                  cubic feet per minute to the control system, and the indication of
                  bypass flow in standard cubic feet per minute or records of monthly
                  inspections of car-seals or lock-and-key configurations used to seal
                  bypass lines.

           I.A.9.f. For enclosed or open flares and gas treatment systems, the date
                    and time of any valve position changes in the line connecting the
                    flare or gas treatment system to the gas mover equipment.

    I.A.10. Records of the gas control system equipment calibration and maintenance
            in accordance with the requirements of Part C, Sections II.B., II.C., or II.E.,
            including dates of calibration and maintenance, as well as the
            manufacturer’s instructions and schedule.



                                                                                        64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.A.11. Results of any performance tests conducted pursuant to Part C, Section
            II.F.

    I.A.12. Nitrogen or oxygen concentration measurements in the landfill gas
            pursuant to Part C, Section II.I.1., and methane concentration
            measurements in the landfill gas pursuant to Part C, Section I.H.3.,
            including measurement dates and the well identification numbers for each
            measurement.

    I.A.13. Wellhead gauge pressure measurements pursuant to Part C, Section
            II.I.2., including measurement dates and the well identification numbers for
            each measurement.

    I.A.14. Wellhead landfill gas temperature measurements pursuant to Part C,
            Section II.I.3., including measurement dates and the well identification
            numbers for each measurement.

    I.A.15. For wellhead gauge positive pressure measurements or wellhead
            temperature exceedances, the following information:

           I.A.15.a. Date(s) and description(s) of corrective action(s) completed to
                  address the exceedance.

           I.A.15.b. The root cause analysis and corrective action analysis, if
                  applicable.

           I.A.15.c. The written final approval from the Division for the
                  implementation schedule for corrective actions, if applicable.

    I.A.16. The records required for individual well raising pursuant to Part C, Section
            II.J.4.

    I.A.17. Descriptions of mitigation measures taken to prevent the release of
            methane or other emissions into the atmosphere from the MSW landfill,
            such as implementing the measures required by of Part C, Section I.B.11.,
            during the following activities:

           I.A.17.a.      When solid waste was brought to the surface during the
                  installation or preparation of wells, piping, or other equipment.

           I.A.17.b.    During temporary shutdown of the gas collection or control
                  system.

           I.A.17.c.     When solid waste was excavated and moved.

    I.A.18. Records of requirements performed for a gas control device permanent
            shut down or removal as required by Part C, Sections III.A. and III.B.




                                                                                       65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.A.19. Biofilter design and operation plan and monitoring records required by
            Part C, Section III.C.2., and records of requirements performed to
            demonstrate biofilter operation is no longer required pursuant to Part C,
            Section III.D.

    I.A.20. All surface emissions monitoring and gas collection and control system
            leak monitoring records, including the following:

           I.A.20.a.    The type(s) of monitoring device used for each monitoring or
                  re-monitoring event including the device manufacturer and model.

           I.A.20.b.     If utilizing EPA Reference Method 21, monitoring instrument
                  calibrations conducted according to sections 8 and 10 of Method 21
                  of Appendix A of 40 CFR Part 60, including the date of calibration.

           I.A.20.c.     If utilizing EPA OTM-51, monitoring instrument calibrations
                  conducted according to sections 8 and 10 of OTM-51, including the
                  date of calibration.

           I.A.20.d.      If utilizing a monitoring method pursuant to Part D, Sections
                  I.A.3., I.A.4., or I.A.5., any monitoring instrument or equipment
                  calibrations as recommended by the manufacturer, including the
                  date of calibration, as well as the approved monitoring method for
                  the instrument(s) or device(s).

           I.A.20.e.    All instantaneous surface emissions monitoring readings of
                  200 ppmv or 200 ppm-m methane or greater, including their
                  emission measurement rate or concentration and location.

           I.A.20.f.     All instantaneous surface emissions monitoring readings,
                  including their emission measurement rate or concentration and
                  location, for surface emissions monitoring performed pursuant to
                  Part B, Section II.D.3.

           I.A.20.g.    All integrated surface emissions monitoring readings
                  pursuant to Part D, Section I.D.1., including their emission
                  measurement rate or concentration and location.

           I.A.20.h.     All exceedances of the surface emission limits in Part B,
                  Section II.D.3. and Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., including their
                  emission measurement rate or concentration and location, and
                  affected grid if applicable pursuant to Section I.D.2.

           I.A.20.i.    All gas collection and control systems leaks, including their
                  emission measurement rate or concentration and location.

           I.A.20.j.    The date and time of all surface emissions monitoring and
                  gas collection and control system leak monitoring measurements.



                                                                                        66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.A.20.k.     All action(s) taken to address a surface emissions
                  exceedance or repair a gas collection and control system leak and
                  the date(s) of corrective action(s) or repair.

           I.A.20.l.     The installation date and location of any gas collection well
                  or device replacement, or equipment or component replacement.

           I.A.20.m.     Any required re-monitoring, including the date and time of re-
                  monitoring, location of the re-monitoring following the requirement
                  of Part H, Section I.A.6.d., and the re-monitored emissions
                  measurement rate or concentration.

           I.A.20.n.     Wind speeds per the requirements of Part D, Sections
                  I.B.5.a. and II.A.3., and if a wind barrier was used during re-
                  monitoring event(s).

           I.A.20.o.     Barometric pressure during surface emissions monitoring
                  per the requirements of Part D, Section I.B.6.

    I.A.21. Any activities conducted pursuant to Part D, Section I.E.2. or I.E.3.
            Records must contain the following information:

           I.A.21.a.       A description of the actions being taken, the areas of the
                  landfill that will be affected by these actions, the reason the actions
                  are required, and any landfill gas collection system components
                  that will be affected by these actions.

           I.A.21.b.      Construction start and finish dates, projected equipment
                  installation dates, and projected shut down times for individual gas
                  collection system components.

           I.A.21.c.   A description of the mitigation measures taken to minimize
                  methane emissions and other potential air quality impacts.

    I.A.22. All remote monitoring notifications and results of follow-up investigations
            and any corrective actions pursuant to the requirements of Part E.

    I.A.23. Records demonstrating compliance with the intermediate cover
            requirements of Part F, Sections I.A. or I.B., if applicable, as well as the
            cover approval from the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
            Management Division and any cover maintenance records.

    I.A.24. Records demonstrating compliance with the cover integrity requirements
            of Part F, Section II., including a description of the monitoring program and
            records of activities completed under the program.




                                                                                           67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

I.B.   An owner or operator subject to this regulation must maintain the following
       records on a continuous basis as specified and provide them to the Division upon
       request.

       I.B.1. The maximum design capacity of the MSW landfill.

       I.B.2. The approved gas collection and control system design plan for the MSW
              landfill required by Part C, Section I.A., and the approved biofilter design
              and operation plan required by Part C, Section III.C.1.

       I.B.3. The most current surface emissions monitoring plan and component leak
              monitoring plan required by Part D, Sections I.B.1. and II.A.2.

       I.B.4. All expansions of the gas collection and control system including
              installation date(s) and location(s) of equipment added to the gas
              collection and control system and date(s) such equipment became
              operational.

       I.B.5. For the life of the gas collection system, the following:

              I.B.5.a.      An up-to-date map showing each existing and planned gas
                     collector in the gas collection system.

              I.B.5.b.      The installation date and location of all installed gas
                     collectors.

              I.B.5.c.       The nature, location, amount, and date of deposition of non-
                      decomposable waste for any areas of the MSW landfill excluded
                      from the gas collection system.

       I.B.6. For the life of the gas control system, the following:

              I.B.6.a.      The vendor specification for each gas control device.

              I.B.6.b.      The density of wells, horizontal collectors, surface collectors,
                     or other gas extraction devices determined using the procedures
                     specified in Part C, Section I.B.8.

              I.B.6.c.      The expected gas generation flow rate as calculated
                      pursuant to Part I, Section I.

              I.B.6.d. For an enclosed combustion device other than a boiler or process
                     heater with a design heat input capacity equal to or greater than 44
                     megawatts per hour (150 million British thermal units per hour)
                     being used to comply with the requirements of Part C, Section II.,
                     the following:




                                                                                         68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

                I.B.6.d.(i)  The average temperature measured at least every 15
                       minutes during the initial performance test and during the
                       most recent performance test.

                I.B.6.d.(ii)  The percent reduction of methane achieved by the
                       control device determined pursuant to Part I, Section II.

         I.B.6.e.      For a boiler or process heater being used to comply with the
                requirements of Part C, Section II., the description of the location at
                which the collected landfill gas stream is introduced into the boiler
                or process heater over the same time period of the initial
                performance test.

         I.B.6.f. For an open flare being used to comply with the requirements of
                  Part C, Section II., the following:

                I.B.6.f.(i)   The flare type (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or
                        non-assisted).

                I.B.6.f.(ii)  All visible emission readings, heat content
                        determination, flow rate or bypass flow rate measurements,
                        and exit velocity determinations made during the
                        performance test as specified in 40 CFR §60.18 (December
                        22, 2008).

                I.B.6.f.(iii)  Records of the flare pilot flame or flare flame
                        monitoring and records of all periods of operations during
                        which the pilot flame or the flare flame is absent made during
                        the performance test as specified in 40 CFR §60.18
                        (December 22, 2008).

         I.B.6.g.      For a landfill gas treatment system being used to comply
                with the requirements of Part C, Section II., the following:

                I.B.6.g.(i)   Records of the flow of landfill gas to, and bypass of,
                       the treatment system, including dates and times and
                       quantities of gas for each in standard cubic feet per minute.

                I.B.6.g.(ii) The site-specific treatment monitoring plan required
                       under Part C, Section II.E.3.b.




                                                                                       69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

II.     Reporting Requirements

II.A.   An owner or operator subject to this regulation must submit the following reports
        and information to the Division as specified using a Division-approved platform
        and forms if available. All reports or submitted information must identify the MSW
        landfill name, owner and operator, the landfill’s AIRS ID if one has been assigned
        to it, the name and email address of the primary point of contact for the landfill,
        and include a certification statement signed and dated by a responsible official,
        or their designated representative, that identifies the individual’s title and contact
        information and attests that the report or information being submitted is true,
        accurate and complete to the best of the certifying individual’s knowledge.

        II.A.1. Waste-in-place reports pursuant to the requirements of Part B, Section
                I.A., by the required due date, which must include the following
                information:

               II.A.1.a.       The landfill’s status (active, inactive, or closed) and the total
                       estimated waste-in-place, in short tons, as of the end of the
                       calendar year or end date for which the report is being submitted,
                       as well as the date the landfill stopped accepting waste if it is an
                       inactive or closed MSW landfill.

               II.A.1.b.       A description of the known and assumed waste composition
                       in the MSW landfill, including ages of waste-in-place.

               II.A.1.c.       The most recent topographic map of the MSW landfill
                       showing all types of cover (e.g., final, intermediate, daily), including
                       final cover with and without a geomembrane, with corresponding
                       percentages over the landfill surface.

        II.A.2. Methane generation rate reports pursuant to the requirements of Part B,
                Sections II.A., II.B., II.C., or II.D.3.d., by the required due date, which must
                include the methane generation rate calculation completed according to
                Part I, Section III., along with relevant parameters used in the calculation,
                as well as the date the landfill stopped accepting waste if it is an inactive
                or closed MSW landfill.

        II.A.3. Surface emissions monitoring notifications and demonstration reports
                pursuant to the requirements of Part B, Sections II.D.3., by the required
                due date. If applicable, surface emissions monitoring notifications must
                include an updated map prepared in accordance with Part D, Section
                I.B.1., of any area(s) of the MSW landfill that are determined by the owner
                or operator to be unsafe to monitor pursuant to Part D, Section I.E.4., for
                the planned surface emissions monitoring event. Surface emissions
                monitoring demonstration reports must include the following information:




                                                                                              70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.3.a.       All results of the surface emissions monitoring in accordance
                   with Part D, Sections I.C.1. and I.D.1., clearly identifying the
                   measurement rate or concentration, location, date and time (to
                   nearest second), and wind speeds, as well as average wind speeds
                   if required, during the monitoring event, as well as any corrective
                   actions taken for detected emissions.

           II.A.3.b.      Emissions reading locations must be in latitude and
                   longitude coordinates determined using an instrument with an
                   accuracy of at least 4 meters and the coordinates in decimal
                   degrees with at least five decimal places. The location and spatial
                   data must be provided in a GIS-supported format.

           II.A.3.c.      The date(s) and results of all re-monitoring to confirm the
                   repair of emissions.

           II.A.3.d.       For each reading conducted as a result of re-monitoring,
                   identification of whether the reading is a second or third re-
                   monitoring effort, and if a wind barrier was used.

           II.A.3.e.     Identification of area(s) of the MSW landfill that were not
                   monitored due to being unsafe to monitor pursuant to Part D,
                   Section I.E.4., and the alternative monitoring option for those
                   area(s) pursuant to Part D, Section I.E.4.a.

    II.A.4. A gas collection and control system design plan pursuant to the
            requirements of Part C, Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2., by the required due date,
            which must include the information required for the design plan pursuant
            to Part C, Section I.B.

    II.A.5. Reports for performance tests of gas control devices completed pursuant
            to the requirements of Part C, Section II.F., which must be submitted
            within 60 calendar days after completion of a performance test and include
            the following information. The information required under Part H, Sections
            II.A.5.e. - II.A.5.j., must only be included with the initial performance test
            report for the gas control device, which must be submitted to the Division
            within 180 calendar days of startup of the device.

           II.A.5.a.      The Division air permit number for the gas control device
                   that was tested if an air permit number has been assigned to it.

           II.A.5.b.        Process information and operating conditions recorded
                   during testing pursuant to the requirements of Part C, Section
                   II.F.6., including copies of all field data and laboratory data sheets.




                                                                                        71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.5.c.      A summary of the test methods used, including an
                   explanation of any deviations encountered, and a list of all
                   calculations used to arrive at the final test results showing the
                   methane destruction efficiency of the gas control device.

           II.A.5.d.      Calibration data for all equipment, including the certification
                   of any calibration gas used in the testing.

           II.A.5.e.      A diagram of the collection system showing collection
                   system positioning including all wells, horizontal collectors, surface
                   collectors, or other gas extraction devices, including the locations of
                   any areas excluded from collection and the proposed sites for the
                   future collection system expansion.

           II.A.5.f.     The data upon which the sufficient density of wells,
                   horizontal collectors, surface collectors, or other gas extraction
                   devices and the gas mover equipment sizing is based.

           II.A.5.g.      The documentation of the presence of asbestos or
                   nondecomposable material for each area from which collection
                   wells have been excluded based on the presence of asbestos or
                   nondecomposable material.

           II.A.5.h.     The sum of the gas generation flow rates for all areas from
                   which collection wells have been excluded based on
                   nonproductivity and the calculations of gas generation flow rate for
                   each excluded area

           II.A.5.i.       The provisions for increasing gas mover equipment capacity
                    with increased gas generation flow rate, if the present gas mover
                    equipment is inadequate to move the maximum flow rate expected
                    over the life of the landfill.

           II.A.5.j.      The provisions for the control of off-site migration.

    II.A.6. Notifications and reports for wellhead positive pressure and excess
            temperature measurements pursuant to the requirements of Part C,
            Sections II.I.2.a.(iii) and II.I.3.a.(iii), which must include the information
            identified in these requirements and be submitted by the required
            deadline(s). All notifications and reports must include the identification
            number for the affected well. For corrective actions expected to take
            longer than 120 calendar days to complete after the initial exceedance,
            the owner or operator must receive written approval from the Division
            regarding for corrective action implementation schedule.




                                                                                             72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

    II.A.7. A high landfill gas temperature report whenever the measured landfill gas
            temperature is greater than or equal to 76.7ºC (170ºF), and the carbon
            monoxide concentration measured is greater than or equal to 1,000 ppmv,
            unless a higher operating temperature value has been approved by the
            Division for the well. The report must be submitted within 24 hours of the
            measurement and include the measurement date and time, well identifier,
            temperature, and carbon monoxide reading.

    II.A.8. Notifications for a well raising not completed within 30 calendar days and
            requests for well raising timeline approval, if applicable, in accordance
            with Part C, Section II.J.1.

    II.A.9. Notifications for planned shutdowns of a gas collection and control
            system, which must be submitted to the Division at least 10 calendar days
            in advance of the shutdown date and include a reason for the shutdown,
            the system component(s) that will require shutdown, and the approximate
            timeline for the shutdown. If the planned shutdown date changes, the
            owner or operator may proceed with the new shutdown date so long as
            the owner or operator notifies the Division of the change as soon as
            possible in advance of the new shutdown date and identifies the reason
            for the change.

    II.A.10.       Notifications by the required due date for a new or replacement gas
           collection well or device, or requests to implement an alternative remedy
           for surface emission re-monitoring exceedances, pursuant to Part D,
           Sections I.C.2.d.(ii), I.C.2.e.(iii), or I.D.2.b.(ii).

    II.A.11.       Notifications by the required due date for when surface emissions
           monitoring is or will not be not performed in an area of the MSW landfill
           within 90 calendar days after one of the activities specified in Part D,
           Section I.E.2., other than removing intermediate cover to expand the
           working face, has begun. The notification must specify when the activity
           will be completed and surface emissions monitoring will begin again. If the
           activity is expected to take longer than 120 calendar days to complete, the
           owner or operator must obtain written approval from the Division for the
           activity completion date and when surface emissions monitoring of the
           area will begin again.

    II.A.12.       Semi-annual reports for the periods of January 1 through June 30
           and July 1 through December 31 of each year, unless different reporting
           periods are approved in writing by the Division. Semi-annual reports must
           be submitted to the Division no later than 30 calendar days after the end
           of the reporting period, unless otherwise approved in writing by the
           Division. Semi-annual reports are only required for MSW landfills required
           to install and operate a gas collection and control system and must include
           the following information for each reporting period:




                                                                                     73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         II.A.12.a.    All instances when the gas collection and control system
                was not operating in compliance with the provisions of Part C,
                Section II., and when applicable monitoring parameters were
                exceeded or not monitored as required, including during periods of
                startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

                II.A.12.a.(i) For each instance, report the date, time, and duration
                       of each event or exceedance, as well as dates and
                       descriptions of any corrective action(s) taken.

                II.A.12.a.(ii) For wellhead gauge positive pressure measurements
                       or temperature exceedances, include the well identification
                       number for each measurement.

                II.A.12.a.(iii) If an alternate landfill gas temperature has been
                       approved by the Division pursuant to Part C, Section II.H.,
                       and has been exceeded, the approved alternate temperature
                       and oxygen concentration must be identified along with any
                       exceedances.

                II.A.12.a.(iv) If a boiler or process heater, energy recovery
                       device(s), or site-specific treatment system is being used
                       pursuant to Part C, Sections II.E.1., II.E.2., or II.E.3., the
                       specific monitoring parameters for the gas control device,
                       energy recovery device(s), or treatment system must be
                       identified for any parameters exceeded or not monitored.

         II.A.12.b.      All monthly wellhead pressure, temperature, and nitrogen or
                oxygen concentration measurements pursuant to Part C, Section
                II.I., and all monthly methane concentration measurements in the
                landfill gas pursuant to Part C, Section I.H.3.

         II.A.12.c.      For corrective actions for wellhead gauge positive pressure
                measurements or wellhead temperature exceedances that cannot
                be completed within 15 calendar days after the initial exceedance
                pursuant to the requirements of Part C, Sections II.I.2.a.(iii) or
                II.I.3.a.(iii), the following information:

                II.A.12.c.(i) The well identification number, root cause analysis
                       and the corrective action analysis if necessary.

                II.A.12.c.(ii) The date(s) corrective action(s) was completed. If
                       corrective action(s) was not completed during the semi-
                       annual period based on the Division-approved
                       implementation schedule, then the planned date(s) for
                       completing corrective action(s) must be identified and once
                       corrective action(s) is completed it must be reported for the
                       semi-annual period in which it occurred.



                                                                                        74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         II.A.12.d.    A description and duration of all periods when the landfill gas
                stream was diverted from the gas control device or treatment
                system through a bypass line or there was an indication of bypass
                flow resulting from a visual inspection of the seal or closure
                mechanism. The description and duration must include the records
                required by Part H, Section I.B.6.g.(i).

         II.A.12.e.    A description and duration of all periods when the gas
                control device or treatment system was not operating, including the
                date(s) and time(s) the control device or treatment system was not
                operating, reason(s) for not operating, and any corrective action(s)
                taken. If there is a backup or secondary control device, that must
                be indicated including whether the backup or secondary control
                device was in operation when the main gas control device or
                treatment system was not operating, and if all collected landfill gas
                was being directed to the backup or secondary control device.

         II.A.12.f.     A description and duration of all periods when the gas
                collection system was not operating, including the date and time(s)
                the collection system was not operating, reason(s) for not
                operating, and any corrective action(s) taken.

         II.A.12.g.    For enclosed flares, all three-hour periods of operation
                during which the average temperature difference was more than
                28ºC (or 82º F) below the average combustion temperature during
                the most recent performance test.

         II.A.12.h.      For boilers or process heaters, the location at which the
                landfill gas stream is introduced into the flame zone if it changed
                during the reporting period, including the date the change occurred.

         II.A.12.i.   Any gas control system equipment calibration and
                maintenance completed pursuant to the requirements of Part C,
                Sections II.B., II.C., or II.E., including dates of calibration and
                maintenance.

         II.A.12.j.   If well raising occurred during the reporting period, the
                records required by Part C, Section II.J.4.

         II.A.12.k.     If any activities identified in Part C, Section II.K. occurred
                during the reporting period, dates and descriptions of the activities,
                as well as mitigation measures taken to prevent the release of
                methane and other emissions into the atmosphere as a result of the
                activities, including meeting the requirements of Part C, Section
                II.K.2. - Section II.K.4., as applicable.




                                                                                      75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

         II.A.12.l.    All known, prevented, or suspected subsurface landfill fire(s)
                along with potential causes and any efforts conducted to avoid or
                put out the fire(s), including any positive pressure readings that
                may have contributed to the known, prevented, or suspected fire.

         II.A.12.m.    The type(s) of monitoring device used for each surface
                emissions monitoring and gas collection and control system leak
                monitoring or re-monitoring event during the reporting period
                including the device manufacturer, and the name or model if
                available.

         II.A.12.n.   All instantaneous surface emissions monitoring readings of
                methane 200 ppmv or greater if using the approved monitoring
                methods under Part D, Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2., or 200 ppm-m or
                greater if using the approved monitoring method under Part D,
                Section I.A.3., which must include the information in Part H,
                Sections II.A.12.o.(i) - (iii).

         II.A.12.o.    All measured emissions that meet or exceed the limits
                specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., and Section II.A.4.,
                including:

                II.A.12.o.(i) The location of the measured emissions (or affected
                       grid).

                II.A.12.o.(ii) The measured emissions rate or concentration.

                II.A.12.o.(iii) The date and time of the emissions measurement.

                II.A.12.o.(iv) The action(s) taken to address the emissions.

                II.A.12.o.(v) The date of repair to address the emissions.

                II.A.12.o.(vi) The date(s) and results of all re-monitoring to confirm
                       repair of emissions.

                II.A.12.o.(vii) Wind speed and barometric pressure during
                       monitoring, and if a wind barrier was used for re-monitoring.

                II.A.12.o.(viii) The installation date and location of each well or
                       device installed or replaced as part of a gas collection
                       system to address an exceedance.

         II.A.12.p.    All measured emissions that exceed the limits specified for
                follow-up or remediation under any approved alternative monitoring
                method pursuant to Part D, Sections I.A.4. or I.A.5., including all
                information specified in Part H, Sections II.A.12.o.(i) - (viii).




                                                                                       76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.A.12.q.     If required to conduct enhanced monitoring pursuant to Part
                 I, Section V., for landfill gas temperatures exceeding the applicable
                 temperature standard in Part C, Section II.H., the results of all
                 monitoring activities conducted during the reporting period.

          II.A.12.r.    The date of installation and the location of each new well or
                 gas collection system expansion that occurred during the reporting
                 period.

          II.A.12.s.    The date(s) any new well or gas collection system expansion
                 equipment became operational that occurred during the reporting
                 period.

          II.A.12.t.      The date of initial placement of waste in newly constructed
                 landfill cells that occurred during the reporting period.

          II.A.12.u.     The results of investigations and any corrective actions for
                 remote methane monitoring notifications that occurred during the
                 reporting period pursuant to the requirements of Part E. If an
                 investigation or corrective action(s) were not completed by the end
                 of the reporting period for a notification that occurred during the
                 reporting period, the results of the investigation and any corrective
                 action(s) must be reported in the next semi-annual report.

    II.A.13.        Annual reports for each calendar year, or an alternate twelve-month
           reporting period if approved by the Division, if the owner or operator is
           required to install and operate a gas collection and control system at the
           landfill. Annual reports are due by March 31 after the end of the calendar
           year, or within 90 calendar days after the end of an approved alternate
           reporting period, and must include the following information:

          II.A.13.a.    Total volume of landfill gas collected for the entire reporting
                 period (reported in standard cubic yards).

          II.A.13.b.    Average composition of the landfill gas collected over the
                 reporting period (reported in percent methane and percent carbon
                 dioxide by volume).

          II.A.13.c.     The date that the gas collection and control system was
                 installed and in full operation.

          II.A.13.d.    Each gas control device installed at the MSW landfill,
                 including its type, year of installation, rating, fuel type, total amount
                 of landfill gas combusted over the reporting period, percent
                 methane destruction efficiency, and type and amount of any
                 supplemental fuels burned with the landfill gas in each device.




                                                                                        77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.A.13.e.    If applicable, the total volume of landfill gas shipped off-site
                 or transferred to a third-party from the MSW landfill, including the
                 composition of the landfill gas (reported in percent methane and
                 percent carbon dioxide by volume), and the recipient of the landfill
                 gas.

          II.A.13.f.     The most recent topographic map of the MSW landfill
                 showing the ages of waste in place, the locations of gas collection
                 system components, and all types of cover (e.g., final, intermediate,
                 daily), including final cover with and without a geomembrane, with
                 corresponding percentages over the landfill surface.

    II.A.14.      Bioreactor moisture content report if an MSW landfill owner or
           operator is utilizing a bioreactor at the landfill and calculates moisture
           content to establish the date the bioreactor is required to begin operating
           the gas collection and control system. The report must be submitted within
           90 calendar days after the bioreactor achieves a 40-percent moisture
           content and include the following information:

          II.A.14.a.    The results of the moisture content calculation.

          II.A.14.b.   The date the bioreactor achieved 40-percent moisture
                 content by weight.

          II.A.14.c.     The date the owner or operator will begin operating the gas
                 collection and control system.

    II.A.15.       Leachate recirculation or liquids addition report if an MSW landfill
           owner or operator has employed leachate recirculation or added liquids
           based on a research, development, and demonstration permit for landfill
           operations (issued through Resource Conservation and Recovery Act,
           subtitle D, part 258) within the last 10 years. The report must be submitted
           for each calendar year with the annual report required under Part H,
           Section II.A.13., except the initial report must cover the prior ten-year
           period to the extent the required data is available, and include the
           following information:

          II.A.15.a.    The volume of leachate recirculated (gallons per year) and
                 the reported basis of those estimates (records or engineering
                 estimates).

          II.A.15.b.   The total volume of all other liquids added (gallons per year)
                 and the reported basis of those estimates (records or engineering
                 estimates).

          II.A.15.c.    The surface area (acres) over which the leachate is
                 recirculated (or otherwise applied).




                                                                                       78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.A.15.d.    Surface area (acres) over which any other liquids are
                 applied.

          II.A.15.e.    The total waste disposed (megagrams) in the areas with
                 recirculated leachate, added liquids, or both, based on on-site
                 records to the extent data are available, or engineering estimates
                 and the reported basis of those estimates.

          II.A.15.f.    The annual waste acceptance rates (megagrams per year)
                 in the areas with recirculated leachate, added liquids, or both,
                 based on on-site records to the extent data are available, or
                 engineering estimates.

    II.A.16.      An amended design capacity report, along with a permit
           modification request, if needed, when there is any change in the design
           capacity of the landfill, which must be submitted within 90 calendar days of
           any design capacity change resulting from a recalculation of volume or
           mass, or as approved by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
           Management Division.

    II.A.17.     Closure notification for an MSW landfill that has permanently
           ceased accepting waste on or after January 1, 1996, which must be
           submitted no later than 30 calendar days after waste acceptance
           cessation and include the following information:

          II.A.17.a.    The last day solid waste was accepted, the anticipated
                 closure date of the MSW landfill, the waste-in-place at the landfill
                 after waste acceptance cessation, and the most recent methane
                 generation rate calculation based on waste-in-place after waste
                 acceptance cessation if the waste-in-place meets or exceeds
                 450,000 short tons.

          II.A.17.b.    The Division may request additional information as
                 necessary to verify the most recent methane generation rate
                 calculation applicable to the closed landfill, and that permanent
                 closure has taken place in accordance with the requirements of any
                 applicable federal, State, or local regulations and ordinances in
                 effect at the time of closure.

    II.A.18.      Gas collection and control system equipment removal or shutdown
           request, which must be approved in writing by the Division prior to
           completing any well capping, or removal or cessation of operation of a gas
           control device. The request must include the following information:




                                                                                        79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.18.a.    For individual well capping or decommissioning only,
                  documentation of nonexistent or significantly declining gas flow
                  rates for the well that are not attributable to malfunctions or
                  inadequate maintenance of the well or gas collection system if the
                  capped or decommissioned well will not be replaced with another
                  well.

           II.A.18.b.     An application for a modified permit or permit cancellation
                  reflecting the permanent shutdown or removal of the gas control
                  device.

           II.A.18.c.   A copy of the closure notification submitted in accordance
                  with Part H, Section II.A.17., if applicable.

           II.A.18.d.    Documentation demonstrating that the gas collection and
                  control system has operated at the MSW landfill for a minimum of
                  15 years after the landfill’s closure.

           II.A.18.e.    Documentation demonstrating that the MSW landfill’s gas
                  flow rate and the manufacturer’s specifications for the gas control
                  device.

           II.A.18.f.   Documentation demonstrating that the methane
                  concentration of collected gas at the landfill is less than 30 percent
                  on 3 successive test dates.

           II.A.18.g.     Surface emissions monitoring results verifying that landfill
                  surface methane concentration measurements do not exceed the
                  limits specified in Part D, Sections I.C.2. or I.D.2., for four
                  consecutive quarters of monitoring.

           II.A.18.h.      Records demonstrating the concentrations of methane gas
                  at the MSW landfill do not exceed 25 percent of the lower explosive
                  limit in facility structures at the landfill (excluding gas collection and
                  control system components) or five percent of the lower explosive
                  limit at the site boundary.

    II.A.19.       Biofilter design and operation plan submission pursuant to the
           requirements of Part C, Section III.C.1., if an MSW landfill owner or
           operator is installing a biofilter at the landfill, which must be submitted no
           later than when the gas control device removal request is submitted
           pursuant to Part H, Section II.A.18.

    II.A.20.     Biofilter startup notification, which must be submitted within 15
           calendar days after the biofilters become operational pursuant to Part C,
           Section III.C.3.




                                                                                         80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

        II.A.21.      Biofilter annual report pursuant to Part C, Section III.C.3., which
               must be submitted by March 31 of each year and include the information
               required by Section III.C.3. for the previous calendar year.

        II.A.22.        Biofilter monitoring notification pursuant to the requirements of Part
               C, Section III.D.3., which must include documentation verifying that the
               methane concentration of collected gas at the landfill has been less than
               10 percent on 3 successive test dates or that the post-closure plan for the
               landfill has been terminated by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and
               Waste Management Division, as applicable.

        II.A.23.      Remote methane monitoring investigation report, and follow-up
               report if applicable, pursuant to the requirements of Part E, Section I.C.,
               by the required due date(s).

PART I         Test Methods and Procedures

I.      Expected Gas Generation Flow Rate Determination

I.A.    The owner or operator of an MSW landfill must determine the expected gas
        generation flow rate from the landfill in accordance with 40 CFR §63.1960(a)(1)
        (February 14, 2022).

II.     Gas Control Device Destruction Efficiency Determination

II.A.   The following methods of analysis must be used by an owner or operator of an
        MSW landfill to determine the efficiency of the gas control device in reducing
        methane from the landfill:

        II.A.1. For enclosed combustion devices, one of the following test methods must
                be used to determine the efficiency of the control device in reducing
                methane by at least 99 percent, or in reducing the outlet methane
                concentration for lean burn engines to less than 3,000 ppmv, dry basis,
                corrected to 15 percent oxygen:

               II.A.1.a.      U.S. EPA Reference Method 18, Measurement of Gaseous
                       Organic Compound Emissions by Gas Chromatography. 40 CFR
                       Part 60, Appendix A-6, Method 18 (December 7, 2020).

               II.A.1.b.     U.S. EPA Reference Method 25, Determination of Total
                       Gaseous Nonmethane Organic Emissions as Carbon.40 CFR Part
                       60, Appendix A-7, Method 25 (May 30, 2023).

               II.A.1.c. U.S. EPA Reference Method 25A, Determination of Total
                       Gaseous Organic Concentration Using a Flame Ionization
                       Analyzer. 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-7, Method 25A (May 30,
                       2023).




                                                                                             81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.A.1.d.     U.S. EPA Reference Method 25C, Determination of
                       Nonmethane Organic Compounds in Landfill Gases. 40 CFR Part
                       60, Appendix A-7, Method 25C (May 30, 2023).

        II.A.2. The following equation must be used to calculate destruction efficiency:

               II.A.2.a.     Destruction Efficiency = [1 - (Mass of Methane - Outlet/Mass
                       of Methane - Inlet)] x 100%.

II.B.   Open flares must meet the requirements of 40 CFR §60.18 (December 22,
        2008).

III.    Methane Generation Rate Determination

III.A. All methane generation rate determinations by an owner or operator of an MSW
       landfill must include waste received at the landfill up to December 31 of the
       previous calendar year.

III.B. The following methods and procedures must be used by an owner or operator of
       an MSW landfill to determine the methane generation rate from an MSW landfill,
       as applicable:

        III.B.1. For an MSW landfill without a carbon adsorption or passive venting
                 system, the procedures specified in 40 CFR §98.343(a)(1) (January 1,
                 2025).

               III.B.1.a.     The Division may request additional information as may be
                       necessary to verify the methane generation rate from the landfill
                       and site-specific data may be substituted when available.

        III.B.2. For an MSW landfill with a carbon adsorption system, by measuring the
                 actual total landfill gas flow rate, in standard cubic feet per minute, using a
                 flow meter or other flow measuring device such as a standard pitot tube
                 and the methane concentration (in percent by volume) using a gas
                 detector instrument that meets the requirements of Part D, Section I.A. or
                 I.A.2.

               III.B.2.a.   The total landfill gas flow rate must be multiplied by the
                       methane concentration to determine the methane generation rate.

        III.B.3. For an MSW landfill with a passive venting system, by using the higher
                 value determined through the following methods:

               III.B.3.a.    The procedures specified in 40 CFR §98.343(a)(1) (January
                       1, 2025).




                                                                                             82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

             III.B.3.b.      The measured actual landfill gas flow rates, in standard
                     cubic feet per minute, using a flow meter or other flow measuring
                     device such as a standard pitot tube and the methane
                     concentration (in percent by volume) using a gas detector
                     instrument that meets the requirements of Part D, Section I.A. or
                     I.A.2., from venting pipe that is within the waste mass.

                    III.B.3.b.(i) Each gas flow rate must be multiplied by its
                            corresponding methane concentration to obtain the
                            individual methane flow rate.

                    III.B.3.b.(ii) The individual methane flow rates must be added
                            together to determine the methane generation rate.

IV.   Wellhead Monitoring

IV.A. Landfill gas nitrogen levels at each wellhead must be determined by an owner or
      operator using EPA Reference Method 3C, Determination of Carbon Dioxide,
      Methane, Nitrogen, and Oxygen from Stationary Sources, 40 CFR Part 60,
      Appendix A-2, Method 3C (October 31, 2016), unless an alternative test method
      is approved by the Division.

IV.B. Landfill gas oxygen levels at each wellhead must be determined by an owner or
      operator through one of the following methods:

      IV.B.1.       An oxygen meter using EPA Reference Method 3A, Determination
             of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Concentrations in Emissions From
             Stationary Sources (Instrumental Analyzer Procedure), 40 CFR Part 60,
             Appendix A-2, Method 3A (October 31, 2016) or EPA Reference Method
             3C, Determination of Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Nitrogen, and Oxygen
             from Stationary Sources 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-2, Method 3C
             (October 31, 2016), or ASTM D6522-20 (October 28, 2024) , except that,
             if sample location is prior to combustion:

             IV.B.1.a.     The span must be set between 10 and 12 percent oxygen.

             IV.B1.b.      A data recorder is not required.

             IV.B.1.c.     Only two calibration gases are required, a zero and span.

             IV.B.1.d.     A calibration error check is not required.

             IV.B.1.e.    The allowable sample bias, zero drift, and calibration drift are
                    ±10 percent.




                                                                                         83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       IV.B.2.       A portable gas composition analyzer provided that the analyzer is
              calibrated and the analyzer meets all quality assurance and quality control
              requirements of EPA Reference Method 3A, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-
              2, Method 3A (October 31, 2016) or ASTM D6522-11 (June 19, 2020).

       IV.B.3.       An alternative test method approved by the Division.

IV.C. Wellhead gauge pressure must be determined by an owner or operator using a
      hand-held manometer, magnehelic gauge, landfill gas analyzer capable of
      measuring wellhead gauge pressure, or other pressure measuring device
      approved by the Division. The pressure measuring device must be calibrated and
      operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.

IV.D. Wellhead temperature measuring devices must be calibrated annually by an
      owner or operator using the procedure in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-1, Method
      2, Section 10.3 (May 30, 2023), except that a minimum of two temperature
      points, bracket within 10 percent of all landfill absolute temperature
      measurements or two fixed points of ice bath and boiling water, corrected for
      barometric pressure, are used.

V.     Enhanced Well Monitoring

V.A.   The owner or operator must initiate enhanced monitoring at each well with landfill
       gas temperature measurement greater than the applicable temperature standard
       in Part C, Section II.H. as follows:

       V.A.1. Conduct visual observations for subsurface oxidation events (smoke,
              smoldering ash, damage to well) within the radius of influence of the well.

       V.A.2. Monitor oxygen or nitrogen concentration in the landfill gas.

       V.A.3. Monitor landfill gas temperature at the wellhead.

       V.A.4. Monitor temperature of the landfill gas every 10 vertical feet of the well
              pursuant to Part I, Section V.A.9.a.

       V.A.5. Monitor the methane concentration with a methane meter using EPA
              Reference Method 3C, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-2, Method 3C
              (October 31, 2016), EPA Reference Method 18, 40 CFR Part 60,
              Appendix A-6, Method 18 (December 7, 2020), or a portable gas
              composition analyzer to monitor the methane levels provided that the
              analyzer is calibrated and the analyzer meets all quality assurance and
              quality control requirements for EPA Reference Method 3C or EPA
              Reference Method 18.

       V.A.6. Monitor carbon monoxide concentrations, as follows:




                                                                                           84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

             V.A.6.a.     Collect the sample from the wellhead sampling port in a
                   passivated canister or multi-layer foil gas sampling bag (such as
                   the Cali-5-Bond Bag) and analyze that sample using EPA
                   Reference Method 10, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-4 (May 30,
                   2023), or an equivalent method with a detection limit of at least 100
                   ppmv of carbon monoxide in high concentrations of methane.

             V.A.6.b.    Collect and analyze the sample from the wellhead using
                   EPA Reference Method 10, 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-4 (May
                   30, 2023) to measure carbon monoxide concentrations.

      V.A.7. The enhanced monitoring must begin no later than 7 calendar days after
             the first measurement of landfill gas temperature greater than the
             applicable temperature standard in Part C, Section II.H. and be conducted
             on a weekly basis.

             V.A.7.a.    If four consecutive weekly carbon monoxide readings are
                   under 100 ppmv, then enhanced monitoring may be decreased to a
                   monthly basis.

             V.A.7.b.   If monthly carbon monoxide readings exceed 100 ppmv, the
                   MSW landfill must return to weekly monitoring.

      V.A.8. The enhanced monitoring can be stopped once the measurement of
             landfill gas temperature at the wellhead is less than or equal to the
             applicable temperature standard in Part C, Section II.H., or if a higher
             operating value is approved by the Division pursuant to Part C, Section
             II.H., at which time the monitoring provisions issued with the higher
             operating value must be followed.

      V.A.9. For each wellhead with a measurement of landfill gas temperature greater
             than or equal to 73.9ºC (165ºF), the owner or operator must also annually
             monitor temperature of the landfill gas every 10 vertical feet of the well.

             V.A.9.a.    The temperature may be monitored using either a removable
                   thermometer, or temporary or permanent thermocouples installed in
                   the well.

VI.   Bioreactor Moisture Content

VI.A. The owner or operator must consider the following for the bioreactor moisture
      content calculation:

      VI.A.1.       Waste mass.

      VI.A.2.       Moisture content of the incoming waste.




                                                                                        85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

       VI.A.3.      Mass of water added to the waste including leachate recirculation
              and other liquids addition and precipitation.

       VI.A.4.        Mass of water removed through leachate or other water losses.

       VI.A.5.        Moisture level sampling or mass balances.

       VI.A.6.      Any other requirements specified by the Colorado Hazardous
              Materials and Waste Management Division.

VI.B. The owner or operator subject to the requirements in Part B, Section II.G. must
      document the calculations and the basis of any assumptions and keep the record
      of the calculations until liquids addition ceases.

VII.   Alternative Test Methods

VII.A. The owner or operator may use alternative test methods for any of the test
       methods described in this regulation upon written approval by the Division.

PART J           Severability

I.     Severability

I.A.   If any section, clause, phrase, or standard contained in this regulation is for any
       reason held to be inoperative, unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity of the
       remaining portions thereof will not be affected and the Commission declares that
       it severally passed and adopted these provisions separately and apart.

PART K           Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.     Adopted: [date]

Promulgation of Regulation Number 31.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act § 24-4-103, the Colorado
Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air
Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules.




                                                                                           86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Basis

In HB19-1261, now codified in part at §§ 25-7-102(2) and -105(1)(e), C.R.S, the
General Assembly declared that “[c]limate change adversely affects Colorado’s
economy, air quality and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of
life[,]” and acknowledged that “Colorado is already experiencing harmful climate
impacts[,]” and that “[m]any of these impacts disproportionately affect” certain
disadvantaged communities. § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. The General Assembly also
recognized that “[b]y reducing greenhouse gas pollution, Colorado will also reduce other
harmful air pollutants, which will, in turn, improve public health, reduce health care
costs, improve air quality, and help sustain the environment.” § 25-7-102(2)(d), C.R.S.

Consequently, the General Assembly updated Colorado’s statewide greenhouse gas
(GHG) pollution reduction goals so as to achieve a 26% reduction of statewide GHG by
2025; 50% reduction by 2030; 65% by 2035, 70% by 2040, 95% by 2045, and net-zero
by 2050 as compared to 2005 levels. § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. Statewide GHG pollution
is defined as “the total net statewide anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide [(CO₂)],
methane [(CH₄)], nitrous oxide [(N₂O)], hydrofluorocarbons [(HFCs)], perfluorocarbons
[(PFCs)], nitrogen trifluoride [(NF3)], and sulfur hexafluoride [(SF6)] expressed as
carbon dioxide equivalent [(CO2e)] calculated using a methodology and data on
radiative forcing and atmospheric persistence deemed appropriate by the commission.”
§ 25-7-103(22.5), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., sets forth the framework for developing GHG abatement rules
consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S.
This provision grants the Commission broad authority to regulate GHG emissions
toward accomplishing these goals.

Further, in February 2024, the Colorado GHG Roadmap 2.0 was released, which
identifies reducing methane emissions from landfills as a near-term action to help
achieve the statewide GHG reduction goals set out in § 25-7-102(g), C.R.S.. Landfills in
Colorado are the third largest source of methane emissions in the state according to the
state’s most recent GHG Inventory published in 2023. Accordingly, the Commission is
adopting a new Regulation Number 31, Control of Methane Emissions from Municipal
Solid Waste Landfills, as part of satisfying the requirements of the General Assembly in
§ 25-7-102(g), C.R.S., and the goals and projections in the GHG Roadmap 2.0.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S. et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and
administration of the Act.




                                                                                      87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

§ 25-7-102(g), C.R.S., directs Colorado to reduce GHG emissions by at least 26% by
2025, at least 50% by 2030; at least 65% by 2035; at least 75% by 2040; at least 90%
by 2045; and net-zero GHG emissions by 2050 relative to 2005 statewide GHG
emission levels. The Act provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air
pollutants, including GHG and its constituent gasses.

§ 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an
effective air quality program, and authorizes the Commission to promulgate “[e]mission
control regulations that are applicable to the entire state, that are applicable only within
specified areas or zones of the state, or that are applicable only when a specified class
of pollution is present.” § 25-7-106(6), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to
require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record and report
information.

§ 25-7-109(1) authorizes the Commission to adopt and promulgate emission control
regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for each type
of facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of
air pollutants. An “emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its
terms is applicable to a specified type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of
controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted from such type of facility,
process, or activity. . . .”, see § 25-7-103(11). Emission control regulations may pertain
to any chemical compound including GHG pollution, see § 25-7-109(2)(c).

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting Regulation
Number 31 (Rule), and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the Rule.

With this action, the Commission adopts emissions control requirements to reduce
methane emissions from municipal solid waste (“MSW”) landfills to help the state meet
the GHG reduction goals set out in § 25-7-102(g), C.R.S.. Methane is a potent
greenhouse gas produced by MSW landfills, with a global warming potential 28 times
that of carbon dioxide. Colorado’s Greenhouse Gas Pollution Reduction Roadmap 2.0
(GHG Roadmap 2.0) identifies reducing methane emissions from landfills as a near-
term action to help achieve the state’s climate goals. To further aid in addressing these
emissions, in October 2024, the Commission adopted changes to the state’s GHG
reporting requirements that apply to MSW landfills under Regulation Number 22, Part A,
which provides the Commission with additional data regarding the amount of emissions
from the state’s MSW landfills, including uncontrolled and controlled emissions. The
landfill methane reduction requirements in this Regulation Number 31 will be reflected in
the expanded GHG reporting requirements for MSW landfills adopted in Regulation
Number 22, Part A, which is used for the state’s GHG inventory and for tracking
progress in achieving the statutory GHG reduction goals.




                                                                                          88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also recognizes that the Rule will result in reduced emissions from
MSW landfills of non-methane organic compounds that contribute to formation of ozone,
as well as toxic air pollutants, including toluene, benzene, m-xylene, n-hexane, mixed
xylenes, ethyl benzene, formaldehyde, and hydrogen sulfide, that may affect
surrounding communities including disproportionately impacted communities consistent
with § 25-7-105(1)(e)(II), C.R.S.

To demonstrate compliance with the landfill methane reduction rule, in this action the
Commission adopts a compliance pathway requiring the installation and operation of
Gas Collection and Control Systems (GCCS) for affected MSW landfills, which can
include vertical and/or horizontal wells, enclosed flares, and landfill gas-to-energy
projects; the use of biocovers and biofilters that contain methane-oxidizing bacteria to
reduce methane, and; emissions monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
requirements, which all demonstrate pre-existing, cost-effective, and technically feasible
means of methane emission control at MSW landfills. The adoption of this Regulation
Number 31 is the result of the Commission’s consideration of other jurisdictions’ existing
or proposed landfill methane rules including California, Oregon, Washington, Maryland,
Michigan, and Canada; the EPA White Paper Series: Municipal Solid Waste Landfills –
Advancements in Technology and Operating Practices, U.S. EPA, Office of Air and
Radiation, EPA-HQ-OAR-2024-0453-0003 (“EPA White Papers”); comments and
discussion during the technical working group meetings for Regulation Number 31;
stakeholder and party feedback, and; all other evidence presented to the Commission in
this rulemaking action.

Applicability – MSW Landfills, Part A, Sections II – III

Regulation Number 31 applies to MSW landfills in the state that have received solid
waste after November 8, 1987, which is the applicability date for MSW landfills in 40
CFR, Part 60, Subpart Cf, incorporated by reference into the Commission’s Regulation
Number 6, and that meet or exceed certain thresholds. MSW landfills that closed before
November 8, 1987, that have a GCCS at the landfill must only comply with the biofilter
requirements of the Rule. The Commission understands that this will impact two MSW
landfills in the state, which are the Rooney Road Landfill in Jefferson County and the
County Line Landfill in Douglas County, and determines that applying the biofilter
requirements of the Rule to these landfills is feasible and allows for greater emission
reductions since a gas collection system is already in place at these landfills. In addition
to owners or operators of MSW landfills, third-parties that purchase or receive landfill
gas from an MSW landfill for treatment or combustion of the landfill gas are also subject
to the applicable requirements of the Rule for such activities. MSW landfills that closed
before October 31, 1993, that have less than 450,000 short tons of waste-in-place or
are below the federal design capacity threshold that applies for installation of a GCCS
under EPA requirements, and do not have a GCCS installed, are exempt from the Rule.
This exemption is meant to align with the effective date of Subpart D of the U.S.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. §6901 et seq, which
applies to landfills that accept non-hazardous solid waste. A number of MSW landfills in
the state closed before the effective date of Subpart D of RCRA and the Commission




                                                                                         89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

has determined if they are below the thresholds in Regulation Number 31 and under
federal requirements, then they should not be subject to the Rule.

The Commission recognizes the financial challenges that some municipal government-
owned and county government-owned MSW landfills may have in initially complying
with the requirements of this regulation. Therefore, a landfill that is owned by a
municipal or county government that has less than 8 million short tons of waste-in-place
as of December 31, 2025, does not have to comply with Regulation 31 until January 1,
2029 and is provided three additional years to comply with each of the requirements
that are based on specific dates for compliance in the Rule. For example, and without
limitation, the initial waste-in-place report, and methane generation rate report, if
applicable, pursuant to Part B, Sections I. and II., for such a landfill would not need to
be submitted to the Division until March 31, 2029 for the waste-in-place, and the
methane generation rate, if applicable, as of December 31, 2028. Likewise, if the
methane generation rate triggers the requirement to install a GCCS, the design plan
required to be submitted pursuant to Part C, Section I.A., is due 12 months after June
30, 2029, and the deadline for installing the GCCS pursuant to Part C, Section I.C., is
30 months after June 30, 2029. As another example, for the provisions of Part C,
Section I.H. that require landfills to install a new gas collection devices 24 or 36 months
after the effective date of the regulation for waste placed before the effective date,
landfills subject to the extension will have 60 or 72 months after the effective date of the
regulation (24 or 36 months plus three years) for waste placed before three years after
the effective date.

An MSW landfill is a type of landfill where one of the main waste streams accepted is
municipal waste, which is solid waste from household, community, commercial, and
industrial sources that does not contain hazardous waste. The Rule does not apply to
landfills that are regulated under Subtitle C of RCRA, which applies to hazardous waste,
or subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, 42 U.S.C. Chapter 103, commonly known as “Superfund”, or to landfills that receive
only construction and demolition debris, inert materials, or non-decomposable solid
waste.




                                                                                         90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission recognizes that a third party - i.e., an entity that is not responsible for
the overall operation of a MSW landfill - may purchase or receive landfill gas from the
owner or operator of the landfill and operate a control device for the gas at a MSW
landfill. To align with the applicability requirements of the Rule, the Commission intends
with the definitions of “Owner” and “Operator” that such an entity is responsible for
compliance with the applicable gas control device requirements (including, but not
limited to, testing, recordkeeping, and reporting) under this Rule but not the Rule’s
requirements applicable to other parts or operations of the MSW landfill. For example,
Company A operates a MSW landfill, including its gas collection system and gas
collection devices, and transfers collected landfill gas to Company B that operates a
landfill gas treatment system. The Commission intends that Company B, and not
Company A, is responsible for compliance with the Rule’s landfill gas control
requirements as applicable to Company B’s gas treatment system or any other gas
control device it operates. Conversely, Company A is responsible for compliance with
the requirements applicable to the MSW landfill operations prior to the point of custody
transfer of landfill gas to Company B, such as waste-in-place and methane generation
rate reporting, surface emissions monitoring, wellhead monitoring, and cover
requirements. Nothing in Regulation Number 31 is intended to modify the stationary
source criteria for permitting purposes.

Prior to the adoption of this Regulation Number 31, MSW landfills in the state were only
subject to EPA’s air pollution requirements for MSW landfills codified in 40 CFR Part 60,
Subparts Cf and XXX, and 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart AAAA, incorporated by reference
into the Commission’s Regulations Number 6 and 8. This Regulation Number 31 is
either as stringent, or more stringent than federal air pollution control regulations for
MSW landfills, and will cover more MSW landfills than are currently covered under the
federal regulations. However, for MSW landfills subject to federal air pollution control
requirements, the Commission does not intend the Rule requirements to replace more
stringent federal requirements that may apply to the landfill as the Rule is phased in.
The Commission determines that this additional applicability is appropriate and
necessary for the state to reach its GHG reduction goals, and the projections of the
GHG Roadmap 2.0.

The Commission is establishing different tiered thresholds that, if met or exceeded, will
trigger certain requirements for those MSW landfills that meet or exceed the thresholds.
The thresholds established are based on a culmination of relevant federal regulations,
primarily found in 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Cf and 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart AAAA;
EPA’s White Papers; other states’ landfill methane rules, and comments during the
technical working group meetings. In determining which requirements apply to the MSW
landfill, the owner or operator must determine first, whether the landfill meets or
exceeds the waste in place (“WIP”) threshold, then, the owner or operator must
determine whether the MSW landfill’s methane generation rate meets or exceeds the
thresholds established in the Rule.




                                                                                        91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Waste-in-Place (WIP) Threshold, Part B, Sections I-II

The first threshold is the WIP threshold established in Part B, Section I.A. with
requirements based on that threshold found in Part B, Sections II.A. through II.F. WIP is
the amount of solid waste that has been deposited at an MSW landfill. The Commission
requires the owner or operator of an MSW landfill to submit a WIP report to the Division,
wherein they will provide the amount of waste in place at the landfill. If an MSW landfill
has more than one owner or operator, the total amount of waste in place at the entire
landfill must be reported.

If the MSW landfill meets or exceeds the WIP threshold in the Rule of 450,000 short
tons or greater, then the owner or operator must calculate and report to the Division the
amount of methane being produced by the landfill, or the methane generation rate. For
most MSW landfills, the methane generation rate must be calculated using equation
HH-1 from 40 CFR, Part 98, Subpart HH, which is the section of the federal greenhouse
reporting rule applicable to MSW landfills. Part I, Section III.B.1.a., of the Rule allows
the owner or operator of an MSW landfill to use site-specific data in the HH-1 calculation
so long as the owner or operator can provide information or records to the Division as
necessary to verify the calculated methane generation rate. Such site-specific data may
include individual waste types if the owner or operator of an MSW landfill tracks the
waste types received at the landfill, such as inert waste, construction and demolition
waste, and bulk municipal solid waste. Under HH-1, the applicable methane decay rate
(k) and degradable organic carbon (DOC) values for the waste type may be used in the
HH-1 calculation. However, if waste types received by a landfill are not tracked, then the
owner or operator of the landfill must use the “bulk waste” category and values in the
HH-1 calculation. An owner or operator who begins to track waste types for a landfill
may only use the individual waste type values in HH-1 for years in which waste types
are tracked and may not apply that retroactively to years in which waste type was not
tracked.

The Commission expects that 37 of 82 MSW landfills, or approximately 45% of MSW
landfills in the state subject to the WIP reporting requirements of the Rule, meet or
exceed the WIP threshold of 450,000 short tons. The Commission considered evidence
that the lowest WIP for an MSW landfill that is likely to trip the methane generation rate
threshold is at around 450,000 short tons or greater. Accordingly, the Commission set
the WIP threshold at a level that correlates as closely as possible with the methane
generation rate threshold based on Colorado’s climate/precipitation, which impacts
methane production at MSW landfills.

Methane Generation Rate Threshold, Part B, Section II

If the MSW landfill’s methane generation rate meets the methane generation rate
thresholds in the Rule as established in Part B, Section II.D., the Commission requires
that a landfill’s owner or operator must either install and operate a gas collection and
control system (GCCS) at the landfill to control emissions, conduct what is known as a
Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill to determine the methane concentrations in the landfill
gas, or conduct quarterly surface emissions monitoring (SEM) of the landfill to



                                                                                        92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

determine if a GCCS must be installed. Tier 2 is a specific process the U.S. EPA has
established under federal air pollution control regulations for MSW landfills to obtain
site-specific non-methane organic compound (“NMOC”) emission values for a landfill for
determining if a GCCS must be installed under federal requirements. Tier 2 involves
collecting samples of landfill gas by placing at least two sample probes per hectare
evenly distributed over the landfill surface in areas that have retained waste for at least
two years. The gas samples from the probes are then analyzed to determine NMOC
and methane concentrations in the gas. EPA Method 25C is used to determine NMOC
concentrations while Method 3C is used to determine methane concentrations. Under
federal requirements, a Tier 2 must be performed when a landfill’s calculated NMOC
emissions under Tier 1 exceed a certain threshold, which has applied to several MSW
landfills in Colorado that do not have a GCCS installed as of the effective date of this
Rule. Under this Rule, Tier 2 is being used to determine the average methane
concentration in the landfill gas to help determine if there is an adequate methane
concentration to sustain operation of a gas control device - specifically an enclosed flare
- if a GCCS is installed, since most flares need at least a 30% methane concentration in
the collected landfill gas to operate. The Commission is requiring that Tier 2 evaluations
conducted solely for the purposes of the Rule will only need to complete Method 3C to
obtain the methane concentrations, while Method 25C for NMOC will not be required. If
a Tier 2 evaluation of a landfill has been conducted for federal requirements from
January 1, 2020 through January 1, 2026, or in the 36 months prior to the applicability
date of this regulation for the landfill, then that evaluation, or the most current evaluation
if more than one was done, must be used for determining the landfill’s methane
concentrations if an owner or operator chooses to utilize the Tier 2 option in the Rule. If
a Tier 2 evaluation has not been previously completed, an owner or operator must
complete a Tier 2 evaluation of the landfill within 180 calendar days of exceeding the
methane generation rate thresholds in the Rule. If the Tier 2 evaluation shows an
average methane concentration of 30% or more for a landfill with a methane generation
rate greater than or equal to 664 metric tons (732 short tons) per year but less than
1,814 metric tons (2,000 short tons) per year, the owner or operator must install a
GCCS or conduct quarterly SEM to determine if a GCCS must be installed. If the Tier 2
evaluation shows an average methane concentration less than 30% in the landfill gas,
the owner or operator must complete another Tier 2 evaluation within 36 months.

If an owner or operator chooses to conduct quarterly SEM, they must notify the Division
in advance of each SEM event and report the results of each event, including re-
monitoring results, to the Division, to allow the Division the opportunity to observe the
SEM event and know the results after each monitoring or re-monitoring event occurs as
those could trigger installation of a GCCS. These SEM notification and demonstration
report requirements only apply to SEM being performed to determine whether a GCCS
must be installed at an MSW landfill. An owner or operator may proceed with performing
a SEM event so long as a notification of the event is provided, including if the event is
rescheduled.




                                                                                           93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

If four consecutive quarters of SEM at an inactive or closed MSW landfill results in no
emission exceedances that would trigger installation of a GCCS, the owner or operator
of the landfill no longer has to complete SEM so long as the four consecutive quarters of
monitoring were conducted after the landfill met the definition of an inactive or closed
MSW landfill in the Rule. An inactive landfill that meets this requirement would be
subject to quarterly SEM again if it becomes an active MSW landfill and its methane
generation rate at that time meets the threshold in Part B, Section II.D.

If the MSW landfill meets or exceeds the methane generation rate threshold established
in Part B, Section II.E., then the owner or operator must either install a GCCS or
conduct a Tier 2 evaluation, and has no option to perform SEM at the landfill to make
that determination. If the Tier 2 evaluation shows an average methane concentration of
30% or more in the landfill gas, the owner or operator must install a GCCS. If the Tier 2
evaluation shows an average methane concentration less than 30% in the landfill gas,
the owner or operator must complete another Tier 2 evaluation within 36 months. The
Commission set this higher methane generation rate threshold for the automatic
installation of a GCCS to ensure MSW landfills with the highest emissions in the state
achieve emission reductions sooner. The Commission determined a threshold using the
methane generation rate instead of nonmethane organic compounds (“NMOC”) (used in
the federal regulations) is most appropriate as it is in line with the EPA White Papers’
identification that “[c]ompared to NMOC emissions rates . . . methane generation rate
more closely relate to a MSW landfill’s waste-in-place, because methane gas (and thus
its [heat input capacity]) is generated from the anaerobic breakdown of biodegradable
components of MSW.” U.S. EPA, White Paper Series: Municipal Solid Waste Landfills –
Advancements in Technology and Operating Practices, at 5 (Oct. 2024). The
Commission expects the methane generation rate threshold to capture 28 of 82 MSW
landfills or 34% of MSW landfills in the state subject to the WIP reporting requirements
of the Rule as of the effective date of the Rule. The Commission sets the methane
generation rate in the Rule based on a conservative rate of methane produced by a
landfill that is needed to operate an enclosed flare without supplemental fuel to control
emissions.

Finally, the Commission is allowing MSW landfills that closed before January 1, 1996,
and exceed the methane generation rate thresholds in the Rule, to install biofilters
under the requirements of Part C, Section III.C., in place of a gas collection and control
system if the requirements for installing a gas collection and control system have been
triggered at the landfill through a Tier 2 evaluation and/or surface emissions monitoring.

PART C - Gas Collection and Control System (GCCS) Requirements

The Commission establishes GCCS requirements in this Rule as a flexible, technically
feasible, and cost-effective means of achieving methane emission reductions at MSW
landfills. A GCCS is equipment installed and operated at an MSW landfill for the
purpose of capturing and reducing methane and other harmful air pollution, and is any
system consisting of a gas collection system and a gas control system. A gas collection
system under this Rule means any system that employs various gas collection wells
and connected piping installed at an MSW landfill, as well as gas mover equipment,



                                                                                        94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

such as a blower, which requires that an active collection system must be used at an
MSW landfill in Colorado. A gas control system is a system that disposes of or treats
collected landfill gas by one or more of the following means: combustion, gas treatment
for subsequent sale, or sale for processing offsite, including for transportation fuel and
injection into a natural gas pipeline. Combustion typically involves the use of a flare but
can also include burning landfill gas in an engine, turbine, boiler, or heater to produce
power or heat. Treating landfill gas to be injected into a natural gas pipeline may be able
to generate recovered methane credits for the owner or operator of an MSW landfill or a
third party under Regulation Number 22, Part C (Recovered Methane rule) if certain
requirements are met as specified in the approved protocol for landfill methane under
the Recovered Methane rule. This Regulation Number 31 does not specify the type of
gas control system that must be used at an MSW landfill; only that a gas control system
must be employed as defined in the Rule. A GCCS, if operated in accordance with this
Rule, is expected to significantly reduce methane emissions and result in reductions of
other harmful air pollution from MSW landfills, satisfying § 25-7-105(1)(e)(II), C.R.S.

GCCS Design Plan, Part C, Sections I.A – I.B

Prior to installing a GCCS, the Commission is requiring an owner or operator who must
install a GCCS at the landfill under the Rule to submit a Design Plan to the Division for
approval, demonstrating how the owner or operator will install, operate, and expand the
GCCS to ensure it is effective in controlling landfill gas emissions. The owner or
operator of an MSW landfill that already has a GCCS voluntarily operating or according
to federal requirements must also submit a Design Plan if one has not been submitted
or update their existing Design Plan to meet the requirements in Regulation Number 31.
The timing of the submission of a new or amended Design Plan is based on when an
MSW landfill triggers the requirement to install a GCCS, or meets or exceeds the
methane generation rate threshold if a GCCS is already installed at the landfill under
federal requirements. The owner or operator of an MSW landfill required to install a
GCCS anytime after December 31, 2025 will have 12 months to submit a Design Plan
after triggering the requirement to do so, including the owner or operator of an MSW
landfill that voluntarily operates a GCCS at the landfill before December 31, 2025 but is
required to operate a GCCS under this Rule after December 31, 2025. The owner or
operator of an MSW landfill with a GCCS that was required to be installed at the landfill
before December 31, 2025 under EPA requirements must submit a new or revised
Design Plan no later than December 31, 2026 if the landfill is subject to the GCCS
requirements of the Rule, which provides 12 months from the Rule’s adoption date for a
new or revised Design Plan to be submitted. For new Design Plans, the Commission
encourages owners or operators that will have to install a new GCCS at their MSW
landfill to begin thinking and planning for the development of the Design Plan before
having to submit one to minimize the time between when a GCCS is required and
ultimately installed. Once a Design Plan has been submitted to the Division, if the
Division does not approve or disapprove the Design Plan or does not request additional
information from the owner or operator within 90 calendar days of receipt, the owner or
operator may continue with the implementation of the Design Plan, with the
understanding that the Division may require updates or modifications to the Design Plan
or GCCS after that for approval of the Design Plan. In those situations, the Division will



                                                                                        95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

not assert a violation against the owner or operator for submitting a Design Plan that the
Division will not approve without modifications or for non-compliance with the provisions
of this Rule that are directly relevant to such revisions or modifications, as long as the
owner or operator works with the Division to make requested conforming changes to the
Design Plan or modifications to the GCCS by a reasonable due date established by the
Division in consultation with owner or operator. The Commission determines that 90
calendar days ensures the Division’s administrative burden is minimized and a GCCS
can be installed as quickly as possible within a feasible timeframe to begin the control of
methane and other harmful air pollutants from an MSW landfill. In order to streamline
review and approval of the Design Plan, the Division will develop and issue guidance for
landfill owners and operators on properly developing Design Plans as set forth in the
Rule regarding the operation and maintenance of the GCCS. The Commission
specifically identifies what must be included in the Design Plans in Part C, Section I.B.,
which must be certified by a Colorado Professional Engineer and further helps to ensure
that the requirements have been properly addressed. The items identified all serve to
demonstrate to the Division that the GCCS will be installed, operated and expanded as
intended.

In addition to the GCCS Design Plan approval, the Commission acknowledges that
there are provisions in the Rule that require Division review and/or approval. The
Commission recognizes that owners and operators rely upon timely Division evaluation
and approval in order to efficiently implement and ensure compliance with some
requirements of the Rule. Owners and operators have expressed that timely approvals
are critical to effective implementation of the Rule and that the lack of timely approvals
may create an enforcement risk. The Division has assured owners and operators that it
intends to dedicate the appropriate resources and time to timely and reasonably
evaluate approvals required under the Rule and will work with owners and operators to
identify additional guidance or other streamlining opportunities that will help simplify and
ensure efficient and timely review by the Division of the various approval requirements
in the Rule. The Commission acknowledges that owners or operators may request, and
the Division may consider, the use of enforcement discretion in appropriate
circumstances as they relate to Division approvals under the Rule.

GCCS Installation, Part C, Sections I.C-I.I

An owner or operator of an active MSW landfill required to install a GCCS must install
and operate the GCCS within 18 months after the submission deadline for the Design
Plan. Whereas the owner or operator of an inactive or closed MSW landfill required to
install a GCCS must do so within 24 months after the submission deadline for the
Design Plan. The Commission determines that the timelines are appropriate based on
its consideration of the need to begin controlling methane emissions from MSW landfills
quickly, and the feasibility and timing of obtaining the appropriate permits for and
installation of the GCCS. The Commission is establishing the GCCS installation and
operation due dates based on the analysis EPA completed for its New Source
Performance Standards and Emission Guidelines for MSW landfills highlighted in the
EPA White Papers that review of the Design Plans, which will be completed by the




                                                                                         96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Division’s Compliance and Enforcement Program, will take 6 months and GCCS
construction and installation will take owners or operators 12 months.

To accommodate situations when a GCCS may not be able to be installed by the
required deadline, the Commission is providing an opportunity to extend the deadline if
the owner or operator can demonstrate a good cause for the delay, such as equipment
supply chain issues, having timely applied to the Division for a permit, but having not yet
had a permit issued for the operation of the GCCS or a gas control device if required,
and delayed approval of a GCCS Design Plan. To minimize potential delays resulting
from permit issuance, the Commission is requiring the GCCS or gas control device
permit application to be submitted no later than when the Design Plan is due. The
owner or operator seeking an extension must submit an extension request in writing to
the Division at least 60 calendar days before the GCCS installation deadline that
includes the basis for the extension request and a proposed deadline for installing the
GCCS. The extension must be approved by the Division in writing to be a valid
extension.

In addition to the installation deadline for a new GCCS, the Commission is also
establishing in Part C, Section I.H., deadlines for the expansion of the GCCS at active
MSW landfills where new waste has been or will be placed. These deadline
requirements are cost-effective and feasible, and allow for earlier capture and control of
methane and other harmful air pollution produced from new waste placed in a landfill
than what is required by EPA. EPA estimates that organic waste, such as food waste,
sent to MSW landfills accounts for the majority of methane emissions and that half of all
food waste breaks down in the first three and half years after it is landfilled. This results
in 61% of the total methane produced by the waste not being captured and controlled
(EPA White Papers) since federal air pollution control regulations for MSW landfills do
not require gas collection from waste until it has been in place for at least 5 years in an
active area of the landfill. To address this, the Commission is requiring owners or
operators of MSW landfills that have an actual or permitted solid waste acceptance rate
of less than 300,000 short tons per year to install new gas collection devices
components or expand existing gas collection devices of the GCCS in areas of the
landfill where solid waste has been in place for at least 36 months to ensure gas
collection from that waste can begin once sufficient methane concentrations are
detected in the landfill gas collected by the devices. Owners or operators MSW landfills
with actual waste acceptance rates of 300,000 short tons per year or greater will be
required to install new gas collection devices or expand existing gas collection devices
in areas of the landfill where solid waste has been placed for at least 24 months to allow
gas collection to begin in those areas once the methane concentration requirement has
been met. To meet the gas collection device installation requirements, an owner or
operator, may install horizontal collectors and wells, including floor horizontal collectors
installed over the protective cover or fluff layer at the bottom of a new area or cell,
caisson wells, which are also known as bottom-up collectors, that can expand or be
raised over time as additional waste is placed around the well, and standard vertical
wells that can also be raised over time. The use of horizontal collectors will require
installation of the collectors as waste is being placed in the area of the landfill where the
collectors are being installed. Any type of gas collection device used to meet these



                                                                                          97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements must be designed, installed, and operated to capture landfill gas produced
by the waste that has been in place at the landfill for the minimum 24- or 36-month
period. If a gas collection device, such as a horizontal collector or caisson well, has
been installed prior to the 24- or 36-month deadline, it must begin operation once the
methane concentration requirement in the Rule is met. If an owner or operator begins
operation of a gas collection device after the methane concentration requirement is met,
but the methane concentration decreases below 30% for two consecutive months, the
owner or operator may temporarily discontinue operation of the device until the methane
concentration is 30% or greater in the landfill gas collected by the device. The
Commission encourages owners or operators to only discontinue operation of these gas
collection devices on a temporary basis if their operation is impacting the ability of the
gas control device(s) at the landfill to operate, including any backup or secondary gas
control devices that may be used to control landfill gas collected by these devices.

To begin the operation of new or expanded gas collection devices there must be
enough new waste placed over waste that has been in place for 24 or 36 months at a
landfill to prevent air intrusion once gas collection begins that could contribute to ignition
of landfill gas and cause a fire inside the landfill. Based on standard landfilling practices
and rates, the Commission has established the 24- and 36-month periods for installing
or expanding gas collection devices to allow for the necessary amount of time for new
waste to be placed over the installed gas collectors or devices to minimize air intrusion
once a vacuum is placed on older waste to begin gas collection. Because horizontal
collectors may not allow for long-term gas collection over multiple decades due to
damage they may sustain from the amount of waste placed over them and other factors
(hence, horizontal collectors are often referred to as “sacrificial”), the Commission is
also requiring under Part C, Section I.I., the installation of additional or replacement gas
collection devices if necessary, such as conventional or standard vertical wells, to
ensure continuous and ongoing gas collection without delay where existing gas
collection devices like horizontal collectors or other gas collection devices may no
longer be able to operate in an area of a landfill. An owner or operator may abandon
such existing gas collection devices in accordance with the GCCS Design Plan when
the gas collection devices are no longer useful or able to collect landfill gas so long as
new gas collection devices have been installed to ensure continuous collection of landfill
gas in that area of the MSW landfill.

GCCS Operational Standards and Requirements, Part C, Section II

Those owners or operators required to install and operate a GCCS under this Rule must
do so according to the Rule’s operational standards and requirements. The owner or
operator required to operate a GCCS must route all collected landfill gas to a gas
control device or devices such as a flare, or a gas treatment system and operate the
GCCS continuously unless certain criteria are met, to minimize any escape of methane
or other emissions to the atmosphere. The system must also be operated in a manner
to minimize off-site migration of subsurface landfill gas and be expanded to meet
emission and landfill gas migration standards. The Commission also includes
requirements for an owner or operator to immediately shut down the gas mover
equipment of a GCCS, such as the blower, and to close all valves in the GCCS if it



                                                                                           98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

becomes inoperable, to prevent the release of emissions to the atmosphere. The
Commission is also requiring the repair of a GCCS to return it to operation within 3
calendar days of it being shut down to minimize the potential for emissions to be
released to the atmosphere through the surface of the landfill while the GCCS is
inoperable and not collecting landfill gas. If there is a planned shutdown of a GCCS, the
Commission is requiring an owner or operator to notify the Division at least 10 calendar
days in advance of the planned shutdown date in case the Division has planned remote
methane monitoring of the landfill, according to Part E of the Rule, during the shutdown.
If the planned GCCS shutdown date changes, the owner or operator may still proceed
with the new shutdown date so long as the Division is notified of the change as soon as
possible in advance of the new shutdown date.

The Commission also includes in this Rule detailed requirements regarding the
materials that must be used for the gas extraction and collection components;
installation and placement of horizontal and vertical wells; perforation requirements for
gas collection devices to ensure proper gas collection without excess air infiltration, and;
equipment sizing and connection requirements, all to ensure the GCCS is constructed
in a manner so that it operates effectively to collect and reduce methane and other
harmful air pollution from an MSW landfill to the maximum extent practicable. The Rule
also includes wellhead operational and monitoring requirements to help achieve this
goal, which includes those for landfill gas pressure and temperature, as well as oxygen
and nitrogen content, all of which are indicators of proper operation or potential issues
with the GCCS or in the landfill that could impact emissions. The Commission is
requiring monthly monitoring of these operational parameters using approved methods
and equipment to ensure any issues can be timely identified and addressed. For
example, the Commission allows the use of landfill gas analyzers that can measure
landfill gas pressure, such as the Landtec GEM5000, for wellhead gauge pressure
measurements. If exceedances of pressure or temperature requirements occur, the
owner or operator has a deadline for when those must be addressed and additional
requirements, including Division review and approval of corrective actions if the timeline
for completing corrective actions exceeds a certain period, to ensure corrective actions
and any analysis needed for them are completed within a reasonable timeframe. The
Rule also specifies situations where the wellhead pressure requirements do not apply,
including for a decommissioned well, which means a well that has been permanently
closed or is no longer in operation, and not one that is malfunctioning or inadequately
maintained.

This Rule also includes specific requirements for gas control devices that can be used
with a GCCS, such as flares, boilers or process heaters, energy recovery devices such
as engines and turbines, and landfill gas treatment systems, to ensure their proper
operation and control of emissions. All flares must be equipped with a continuous
monitoring device to track their operation as well as gas flow rate measuring devices
both to the flare and the flare bypass line, to track the amount of landfill gas going to the
flare or being diverted from the flare. Other gas control devices like energy recovery
devices and gas treatment systems have similar gas flow monitoring requirements.
Enclosed flares must also be operated within a specified temperature range established
during performance testing to ensure the destruction of emissions. All gas control



                                                                                          99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

devices, except open flares, are required to achieve at least a 99 percent methane
destruction efficiency demonstrated through performance testing, which is feasible
based on a similar requirement in other states’ landfill methane rules where testing
conducted in those states has shown such a requirement can be met. Federal air
pollution control requirements for MSW landfills require a 98% destruction efficiency for
NMOCs. Open flares do not have a methane destruction efficiency requirement in the
Rule because they cannot be tested to verify their actual destruction efficiency. Open
flares must only be verified to meet the design and operational requirements under 40
C.F.R. § 60.18 as a means to ensure emission reductions, which is considered a “test”.

As noted, the Commission is establishing performance testing requirements for gas
control devices used in a GCCS using the applicable EPA test methods identified in
Part I., Section II., and according to the requirements of Part C, Sections II.F.1.-II.F.8.,
wherein an initial performance test must be conducted within 180 calendar days of start-
up of the GCCS or by December 31, 2026, if the gas control device is already in
operation as of December 31, 2025. If a gas control device was previously tested to
meet federal emissions destruction efficiency requirements, it must still be tested by a
certain deadline based on when the test for federal requirements occurred to ensure the
device is meeting the more stringent emissions destruction efficiency requirements of
this Rule. Since federal air pollution control requirements for MSW landfills only require
a one-time performance test to demonstrate compliance, the Commission is
establishing subsequent periodic testing in the Rule to ensure gas control devices
continue to demonstrate they are achieving the required destruction efficiency
throughout their operation. Subsequent performance tests are required to be completed
annually until three consecutive tests show compliance, upon which periodic testing can
move to every three years unless any testing after that shows noncompliance, which will
result in a return to annual testing. A gas control device that is used as a backup control
device, meaning it is used to control emissions when the primary control device is
unable to do so or is used temporarily for short periods in conjunction with the operation
of the primary control device, can be tested every 4,000 hours of operation since it
operates less frequently, while still having similar consecutive testing requirements as a
primary gas control device. A secondary gas control device, which is a gas control
device that operates the majority or all of the time alongside a primary gas control
device, must meet the same performance testing requirements as a primary gas control
device.

To ensure proper oversight of performance tests, the Commission is requiring that
owners or operators notify the Division in advance of all planned testing and obtain
Division approval for a performance test to move forward before it occurs. Additionally,
all tests must be completed following requirements for performance testing established
in the Commission’s Common Provisions Regulation that includes conducting testing
under representative or normal operating conditions for the source, which excludes
periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction unless otherwise specified by the
Division.




                                                                                        100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Through this Rule, the Commission is also phasing out the use of open flares at MSW
landfills. The operation of an open flare at an MSW landfill is prohibited on or after
January 1, 2029, unless the owner or operator can demonstrate that certain exemption
conditions apply and the proper documentation is submitted to and approved by the
Division. One such exemption is allowing the use of an open flare if the landfill gas flow
rate and methane concentration is insufficient to support the operation of an enclosed
flare or other gas control device. However, to qualify for this exemption, an owner or
operator must first determine if there are enclosed flares or other gas control devices
besides an open flare that can operate at the gas flow rates and methane
concentrations for the landfill, and if such devices are available they must be utilized
instead of an open flare. This is meant to ensure operators are evaluating the feasibility
of using an enclosed flare or other gas control device over an open flare if an existing
enclosed flare or open flare at the landfill is unable to operate under the landfill’s current
conditions. Another exemption addresses situations where an open flare might be used
as a backup or secondary gas control device to another gas control device that is not an
open flare. A backup control device may be used during periods when the primary
control device or gas treatment system is unavailable or cannot operate, while a
secondary control device may be used in support of a renewable natural gas operation
at a landfill, by accepting landfill gas that does not meet the necessary specifications for
use, and may operate more frequently than a backup control device. Some exemptions
are not allowed if the open flare is a secondary control device located within 1,000 feet
of a residential community, mobile home community, daycare facility, school, or hospital
within a disproportionately impacted community to ensure greater protections for these
places or areas in such communities. The Commission is phasing out the use of open
flares because performance tests cannot be conducted on open flares to verify their
actual emissions destruction efficiency, although they must still meet performance
standards found in 40 CFR § 60.18. However, the Commission also recognizes the
value of open flares in some situations, such as when they may be used as part of a
renewable natural gas project at a landfill where some of the landfill gas does not meet
pipeline specifications and must still be controlled, but an enclosed flare may not be
suitable for that purpose unless supplemental fuel is used.

The Commission is also establishing requirements to minimize emissions during well
raising, which is when an existing gas collection well is temporarily disconnected from
the GCCS and is extended vertically or horizontally to allow for the addition or extension
of a new or existing layer of solid waste or cover material, and to minimize emissions
during the shut down of GCCS components or the entire GCCS. These requirements
are meant to ensure that well raising is timely completed and that GCCS downtime is
kept to a minimum to prevent landfill gas from escaping to the atmosphere, while still
providing a reasonable amount of flexibility to owners or operators to complete the
necessary activity or corrective actions, and making the Division aware of the situation
for proper oversight.




                                                                                          101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

GCCS Removal and Biofilter Requirements, Part C, Section III

The Commission has also set forth requirements for the permanent shutdown or
removal of a gas control device at an MSW landfill, as well as requirements for biofilters
when an owner or operator installs a biofilter upon shutdown or removal of a gas control
device. In order for a gas control device to be permanently shut down or removed,
certain criteria have to be met, including that the GCCS has operated for at least 15
years at the MSW landfill after the landfill has closed, and the landfill’s gas flow rates
and methane concentrations are no longer sufficient to operate an enclosed flare. Also,
the GCCS must first transition from fulltime operation to intermittent operation before the
gas control device can be considered for permanent shut down or removal to ensure the
greatest amount of emission reductions can be achieved for as long as possible with the
GCCS. The Commission considered data collected by the California Air Resources
Board under its landfill methane rule, which has been in place since 2010 and has
similar requirements as Regulation Number 31, that supports the gas control device
shut down and removal requirements in the Rule.

To continue to achieve methane reductions from an MSW landfill after shutdown or
removal of a gas control device, the Commission is requiring an owner or operator to
either install another gas control device that is able to operate at the landfill’s gas flow
and methane concentration, or a biofilter. Biofilters are a passive method for mitigating
landfill gas emissions that rely on methanotrophs, which are bacteria that oxidize
methane and convert it to carbon dioxide and water vapor, and can be connected to a
landfill’s existing gas collection system or passive vents at a landfill. The Commission
has included a requirement for an owner or operator to develop and implement a
biofilter design and operation plan, which addresses key parameters and considerations
for a biofilter, such as oxygen, moisture, temperature, capacity of the biofilter, landfill
gas residence time in the biofilter, and types of materials or media used for the biofilter
to support the growth of methanotrophs, as well as monitoring and maintenance
procedures for the biofilter. Examples of material layers for a biofilter are coarse gravels
(washed) and coarse and woody compost, while fine sand, fine compost, or ¾-inch
minus gravels would not be acceptable. An example monitoring procedure would be to
monitor methane concentrations or rates at the surface of the biofilter when there is a
demonstrable flow of landfill gas to the biofilter.

The Commission acknowledges that biofilters have not been commercially or broadly
implemented in Colorado and that MSW landfill operators, in coordination with the
Division, will undertake their best efforts to develop biofilter design and operation plans
that, when implemented, will support the growth of methanotrophs and methanotrophic
activity in biofilters to reduce methane emissions. However, the Commission recognizes
that the design, operational, monitoring, and maintenance provisions in a biofilter design
and operation plan may need to be revised over time as the collective knowledge on
biofilter operations and capabilities grows. The Commission expects that biofilter design
and operation plans will acknowledge and address the potential need for these plan
iterations and that each plan will include responsive actions to unexpected performance
issues with a biofilter. As such, the Commission does not intend it to be a violation of
this Rule where a biofilter does not achieve expected performance so long as the



                                                                                        102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

operator is following the biofilter plan's design, operation, monitoring, and maintenance
provisions and the responsive requirements, where necessary.

To assist owners or operators in meeting the biofilter requirements of the Rule, the
Commission directs the Division to develop and issue guidance on biofilter design,
operation, and maintenance. The Commission also encourages the Division to work
with the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division and MSW
landfill operators on a study of biofilter technology that will take place at MSW landfill(s)
in Colorado, utilizing and building off the biofilter design and operation plan
requirements in the Rule, to evaluate and determine the feasibility and effectiveness of
biofilters in reducing methane emissions from MSW landfills. The results of the
demonstration study will inform whether updates or revisions to the biofilter
requirements in the Rule and/or the Division’s biofilter guidance should be made. If a
MSW landfill subject to Part B, Section II.F., chooses to install a biofilter(s) to comply
with the Rule, the Commission encourages the owner or operator of the landfill to
include the landfill in the demonstration study. An owner or operator must meet the
biofilter operational requirements in the Rule until the methane concentration in the
landfill gas is at 10 percent or less or until the post-closure plan for the landfill has been
terminated by the Solid Waste and Materials Management Program in the Colorado
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division, whichever occurs last.

The Commission expects these GCCS operational standards and requirements will help
ensure methane emissions from MSW landfills are properly controlled for a maximum
and feasible length of time and will aid in meeting the state’s statutory GHG emission
reduction goals.

PART D, Section I - Surface Emission Monitoring

The Commission is requiring that owners and operators of MSW landfills who must
install a GCCS under this Rule to conduct periodic surface emissions monitoring (SEM)
of the landfill and GCCS leak monitoring using approved monitoring technologies or
methods outlined in the Rule to ensure the GCCS is operating properly and emissions
from the landfill are being controlled as required. The surface emissions monitoring
must be completed beginning April 1, 2027 if a gas collection and control system has
been installed at the landfill prior to January 1, 2026, or upon commencing operation of
a newly installed GCCS. An initial surface emissions monitoring plan must be developed
and submitted to the Division with the owner or operator’s Design Plan, and include the
items identified in Part D, Section I.B.1. An owner or operator must update the surface
emissions monitoring plan as needed and maintain a record of it on a continuous basis.

The Commission is providing the option to use EPA-approved monitoring methods as
well as Division-approved monitoring methods or programs for SEM and GCCS leak
monitoring. Currently, the only methods allowed for SEM for landfills subject to federal
air pollution control requirements are the U.S. EPA’s Method 21 and OTM-51. Method
21 relies on the use of a handheld monitoring device performed by an individual walking
on the surface of the landfill. OTM-51 utilizes an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) or
drone to perform Method 21 and, as of the adoption date of the Rule, Sniffer Robotics is



                                                                                           103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

the only company certified to perform OTM-51 at a landfill. An owner or operator of an
MSW landfill subject to federal air pollution control requirements must perform SEM
using Method 21 or OTM-51 but cannot automatically switch back and forth between
those two monitoring methods for SEM; rather, they must submit a written request to
EPA for approval to switch between those methods. Under this Rule, owners or
operators have additional options for performing SEM, including owners or operators
subject to federal requirements that will still need to utilize Method 21 or OTM-51.
Regulation Number 31 allows owners or operators to also use a handheld methane-
specific tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS) device that follows a
Division- or EPA-approved method for performing the monitoring with such a device,
any other alternative method for SEM that may be approved by the EPA, and any
Division-approved alternative method. For example, the EPA has an approved
alternative test method (MATM-003, January 14, 2025) for using the Xplorobot
handheld TDLAS to perform component leak monitoring at crude oil and natural gas
facilities that could be used for GCCS leak monitoring at MSW landfills so long as the
applicable requirement of Part D, Section II.A., are followed, including monitoring
frequency and component leak threshold. The Division-approved alternative method will
allow owners or operators or monitoring technology vendors to propose the use of other
types of monitoring technologies for SEM and GCCS leak monitoring that may be used
alone or in combination with approved technologies such as Method 21, OTM-51, or a
handheld TDLAS, provided certain requirements are met. The Commission encourages
owners or operators to work with monitoring technology vendors to develop and submit
proposed alternative monitoring methods together to the Division. Only emission
monitoring technologies that are commercially available and have proven or
demonstrated success in MSW landfill emissions detection will be considered for
approval by the Division as an alternative monitoring method. If the owner or operator
would like to use an alternative monitoring method, they must submit a proposal to the
Division for approval that contains the information identified in Part D, Sections
I.A.5.c.(i)- I.A.5.c.(x). The alternative monitoring method approval procedures in this
Rule are similar to the Alternative Approved Instrument Monitoring Method (“AIMM”)
used for oil and gas operations in the state under the Commission’s Regulation Number
7 but have been modified based on what the Division and the Commission have learned
through the existing Alternative AIMM review and approval process.

The Commission understands that the Division will work closely, efficiently and timely
with MSW landfill owners and operators, and other stakeholders, as appropriate, to
seek to have an alternative monitoring methodology approved sufficiently in advance of
April 1, 2027 to allow operators time to plan for and implement the use of such an
alternative in lieu of the monitoring spacing requirements of Part D, Section I.B.2. The
Commission adopted the 25-foot spacing of Part D, Section I.B.2., considering this
commitment and expects that the Division will commit the resources and time necessary
to achieve this goal.




                                                                                    104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission is establishing detailed requirements for conducting SEM, including
how the entire surface of the landfill must be divided into individual grids for monitoring,
the monitoring pattern or spacing, wind speed requirements during monitoring, the
frequency of monitoring, data gathering and recording during monitoring, thresholds and
timelines for corrective action and re-monitoring as a result of detected emissions
exceedances, as well as requirements for both instantaneous SEM and integrated SEM
at a landfill. If an exceedance is detected, the Commission is requiring owners or
operators of MSW landfills to initiate corrective action within 5 calendar days of the
detection, which can include, but is not limited to, making a first attempt at repair of the
exceedance, or generating a work order for repair if repair will take longer to complete.
Instantaneous SEM involves individual detections of emissions on the surface of a
landfill, while integrated SEM is the average of all emissions detections within a single
grid on the surface of a landfill. Instantaneous SEM must be performed in compliance
with Part D, Section I.C., which requires that any readings of methane 200 ppmv or
greater if using EPA Method 21 or OTM-51, or 200 ppm-m or greater if using a
handheld TDLAS, must be recorded, along with their location. Monitoring readings that
meet any of the above must also be monitored in at least a five-foot radius around the
emissions detection location to determine the extent of the methane leak. All
instantaneous SEM detections of 500 ppmv or ppm-m or greater must be addressed
and re-monitored within 5 calendar days after detection with a similar requirement for
monitoring a 5-foot radius around the detection location to ensure repair and that
emissions did not migrate to another area near the original detection location after
repair. Should re-monitoring show additional emission exceedances, an owner or
operator will have to replace the gas collection well or other equipment for the area
where the exceedance occurred after the third measured exceedance. The threshold for
triggering corrective action with integrated SEM is an average methane concentration of
25 ppmv or ppm-m or greater from all emission detections in a grid with similar timelines
as instantaneous SEM for performing corrective action and conducting re-monitoring,
and having to replace equipment if re-monitoring shows exceedances.

The Commission requires the monitoring pattern for SEM to be 25-foot spacing at an
MSW landfill as opposed to the 100-foot spacing required under federal regulations, so
that the monitoring covers more of the surface area of the landfill to help ensure greater
detection of leaks. If there are no measured emissions that meet or exceed the limits for
corrective action in the Rule after 4 consecutive quarters of monitoring, then the
monitoring pattern may move to 100-foot spacing. However, the monitoring pattern must
move back to 25-foot spacing if there are any measured emissions that meet or exceed
the limits for corrective action. The Commission has excluded measured emissions from
cover penetrations, including emissions within a 3-foot radius around a penetration, for
this determination, recognizing that those emissions are not indicative of cover integrity
issues. The tighter monitoring spacing may also encourage MSW landfill owners or
operators to utilize alternative monitoring methods. Under the Division-approved
alternative method option for SEM, an owner or operator may propose an alternative
monitoring method with a different monitoring spacing provided the alternative method
can achieve comparable emission reductions as a standard or pre-approved method
following the 25-foot spacing requirement. For example, the owner or operator of an
MSW landfill subject to federal air pollution control requirements could propose the use



                                                                                        105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

of EPA Method 21 or OTM-51 at 100-foot spacing in combination with an alternative
monitoring technology that ensures more comprehensive monitoring coverage of the
landfill’s surface.

The Commission has provided for a permanent exemption from the integrated and
instantaneous SEM requirements in Part D, Sections I.C. and I.D., for the working face
of an MSW landfill, except areas of the working face under daily cover where no active
waste unloading or placement is occurring, so long as the working face size is
minimized based on the amount of incoming waste to the landfill. The Commission
expects that MSW landfill owners or operators will develop and follow operating
protocols to meet the working face size requirement. The Commission has also
permanently exempted the surface of the haul road to the working face from SEM, due
to safety concerns, as well as areas of an MSW landfill with restricted asbestos
disposal, which are areas exclusively designated for receiving asbestos waste. The
Commission has also provided for a temporary exemption from SEM requirements for
areas of the landfill where the cover material is removed to complete specified activities.
To ensure completion of such activities so that SEM in an affected area may resume
without significant delay, the Commission is requiring an owner or operator to notify the
Division if the activity will result in SEM not occurring in the affected area within 90
calendar days after the activity begins, and Division approval for the activity completion
date, if it is longer than 120 calendar days. The Commission is excluding SEM from the
active area of the working face of the landfill since it is an area of the landfill with limited
options to address detected emissions beyond existing cover requirements in solid
waste regulations implemented by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
Management Division and limiting the size of the working face. The Commission also
intends for emissions from the working face to be minimized through earlier expansion
of the gas collection and control system pursuant to the requirements of Part C, Section
I.H.

PART D - Section II - Leak Inspection and Repair

The Commission is also establishing GCCS monitoring and repair requirements in this
Rule to address emission leaks that may occur from the GCCS and associated
equipment. Any owner or operator required to install and operate a GCCS under this
Rule must perform quarterly leak monitoring of equipment and components that contain
or contact landfill gas and operate under positive pressure, meaning they are located on
the downstream side of the gas mover equipment. An owner or operator must also
perform quarterly leak monitoring of certain components or equipment that may not
operate under positive pressure but may contain landfill gas, which include leachate
removal risers and knock-out drums. If an owner or operator installs a biofilter pursuant
to the requirements of Part C, Section III.C., and operates a passive collection system
(i.e., shuts down the gas mover equipment or does not have gas mover equipment
installed), then leak monitoring must be conducted of all components since none will be
operating under positive pressure from gas mover equipment. The quarterly monitoring
must start on April 1, 2027 if a gas collection and control system has been installed at
the landfill prior to January 1, 2026, or upon commencing operation of a newly installed
GCCS, and must be performed using an approved monitoring method set out in Part D,



                                                                                            106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Section II.A.1. A component leak monitoring plan must be developed and updated as
needed to identify the GCCS equipment and components that require monitoring and
their location. If a leak is detected, the owner or operator must tag, record, and repair
the leak and re-monitor it to verify repair according to the steps set out in Part D,
Section II.A.4.

PART E - Remote Methane Monitoring

In addition to SEM and GCCS leak monitoring, the Commission recognizes that remote
methane monitoring is an effective means for identifying and addressing emissions from
MSW landfills and has established requirements for it in the Rule. Recent studies, such
as the most comprehensive direct monitoring evaluation of landfills to date conducted
by the U.S. EPA and Carbon Mapper (Quantifying methane emissions from United
States landfills, Cusworth et. al, March 28, 2024), and remote methane monitoring of
landfills conducted by the California Air Resources Board (Summary Report of the 2020,
2021, and 2023 Airborne Methane Plume Mapping Studies, April 2024), have
demonstrated the effectiveness of remote methane monitoring in identifying emissions
from MSW landfills.

Under the Rule, remote methane monitoring is monitoring that is conducted offsite from
an MSW landfill using a satellite, aircraft, or mobile monitoring platform, excluding
unmanned aerial systems or unmanned aerial vehicles such as drones. Remote
methane monitoring must be conducted by third-party monitoring entities approved by
the Division to help identify and address methane emissions escaping from MSW
landfills that may not be identified through SEM and GCCS leak monitoring performed
at the landfills by owners or operators. Approved third-party monitoring entities may
include monitoring technology operators or vendors the Division has contracted with to
perform monitoring of landfills, or those that provide publicly-available monitoring data.
Additionally, any technology that has obtained third-party certification under the U.S.
E.P.A.’s Methane Super Emitter Program outlined in 40 CFR §60.5371b(b)(August 1,
2024), which at the time of this rulemaking only includes Carbon Mapper’s Airborne
Mobile Remote Sensing technology, can be used for remote methane monitoring under
the Rule.

The Commission recognizes that not all remote methane monitoring results and data
from an approved technology the Division may receive will qualify for use under the
Rule due to a variety of reasons, such as data quality or timing of receiving the data.
The Commission further recognizes that certain remote methane monitoring results may
not indicate with reasonable certainty that significant emissions are occurring at an
MSW landfill due in part to variations in landfill systems and operation conditions.
Therefore, in addition to the requirements laid out in Part E, Section I.A.2., the
Commission directs the Division to convene a working group of interested stakeholders,
to develop guidelines covering timeliness, supporting information, data quality, and
other requirements for evaluating remote methane sensing detections or reports and
determining whether a notification for a detection should be sent to a landfill owner or
operator under Part E of the Rule. The guidelines will define an appropriate range of
uncertainty for emissions detections as well as an emission threshold for significance



                                                                                        107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

that would factor into a notification determination. The guidelines will also include
information about the process, timing, and requirements for a third party that conducts
remote methane monitoring to seek Division approval of a remote methane monitoring
technology pursuant to Part E, Section I.A.1. The Division will determine if a remote
methane monitoring detection report from an approved technology meets the
guidelines, and if so, notification will be sent to the owner or operator of the relevant
MSW landfill. The Rule establishes specific requirements for a notification when it is
sent to an owner or operator, including providing a visualization or image of the
detected emissions at the landfill, the approximate location of the emissions detection,
and the details of the emissions detection methodology used by the remote methane
monitoring platform. Finally, the guidelines will also include recommendations to the
Division for making remote methane monitoring detections, notifications, and
investigation findings publicly available, such as through the development of a public
portal or other means.

The Rule also establishes requirements for an owner or operator to investigate,
address, and respond to a remote methane monitoring notification from the Division,
including reviewing activities at the landfill that occurred leading up to and at the time of
the remote monitoring emissions detection that may have contributed to or caused the
emissions, as well as data for all required monitoring that has to be performed under the
Rule. The owner or operator must also conduct SEM and GCCS leak monitoring if
necessary to identify the source of the emissions for remediation or corrective action if
the owner or operator is unable to determine the cause of the emissions, including
whether the emissions have stopped or been addressed, through other means. The
Commission intends that, if the owner or operator conducts SEM, the purpose of such
SEM is to find the source of emissions identified in the remote methane monitoring
notification. The Commission does not intend that integrated SEM under Part D, Section
I.D., of this Rule must be performed as part of this effort, but if the owner or operator
elects to conduct integrated SEM, the owner or operator must also complete necessary
corrective actions in accordance with Part D, Section I.D.2.a., if applicable. If the MSW
landfill does not have a GCCS installed and the methane generation rate for the landfill
is 732 - 1,999 short tons per year, the owner or operator of the landfill must perform
SEM of the area(s) of the landfill where remote methane monitoring identified
emissions. If SEM detects emissions above the applicable thresholds in the Rule for
triggering installation of a GCCS, or installation of a biofilter if the MSW landfill is subject
to Part B, Section II.F., the owner or operator must proceed with meeting that
requirement, unless a Tier 2 evaluation has demonstrated the average concentration of
methane in the landfill gas is less than 30%. Following the above actions, the owner or
operator must submit an investigation report to the Division within 15 calendar days
after receiving the remote methane monitoring notification, which is the same reporting
timeline the EPA has established under its Methane Super Emitter Program.




                                                                                            108
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

PART F - Cover Requirements

The Commission has included requirements for biocovers at MSW landfills in the Rule
recognizing the emission reductions they can achieve similar to biofilters. Like a biofilter,
a biocover consists of a material layer such as compost that contains methanotrophs to
oxidize methane that can be used as cover placed over solid waste deposited at a
landfill. Based on feedback the Division received from the Solid Waste and Materials
Management Program in the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management
Division, the Commission is only requiring use of biocover for intermediate cover at an
MSW landfill with a GCCS when the intermediate cover is installed on or after July 1,
2026 and will be in place for 180 calendar days or longer at the landfill, which is subject
to approval by the Solid Waste and Materials Management Program. Existing state solid
waste regulations implemented by the Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste
Management Division (6 CCR 1007-2, Part 1)(January 14, 2025) have daily,
intermediate, and final cover requirements for MSW landfills. Under those regulations,
alternative covers like biocover must be approved by the Hazardous Materials and
Waste Management Division to be used at a landfill. To support the effectiveness of a
biocover in reducing emissions, the Commission has included requirements that must
be addressed in the request for a biocover submitted to the Hazardous Materials and
Waste Management Division, which must be followed by the owner or operator upon
approval of the biocover by the Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division.
The Commission understands that the Air Pollution Control Division will support the
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division where needed in implementing
the biocover requirements, including but not limited to, reviewing requests for biocover
regarding the growth of methanotrophs and methanotrophic activity in the biocover.

The Commission has also established requirements for any new intermediate cover
installed on or after July 1, 2026 at an MSW landfill with a GCCS regardless of how long
the cover will be in place that requires a minimum depth of 18 inches of earthen material
or other suitable material to be placed over waste, which must also be approved by the
Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division, since it exceeds the
standard depth requirement of 12 inches for intermediate cover under state solid waste
regulations and may trigger other requirements imposed by the Hazardous Materials
and Waste Management Division, such as vegetation specifications for the cover,
stormwater control, and reporting requirements. An owner or operator must also follow
the cover integrity requirements for the landfill as they pertain to the intermediate cover.
The Commission recognizes the emission reduction potential resulting from increasing
the depth of intermediate cover used at a landfill and so is allowing an owner or
operator of an MSW landfill to meet this requirement in place of the biocover
requirement in the Rule.




                                                                                         109
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

Through this Rule, the Commission is also prohibiting the use of petroleum
contaminated soils (PCS) or soils containing volatile organic compounds (VOC) for
intermediate or final cover at an MSW landfill, which is supported by the Colorado
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division. Some MSW landfills in
Colorado accept PCS, which contain VOC that can break down and produce methane.
The VOC in PCS also contains hazardous air pollutants like benzene, toluene,
ethylbenzene, and xylenes that can volatilize into the air and may affect surrounding
communities including disproportionately impacted communities.

Finally, the Commission has included a requirement for the owner or operators of MSW
landfills to implement a cover integrity program at their landfills, which is an existing
requirement under federal air pollution control regulations for MSW landfills. The
Commission has provided additional detail or requirements for the cover integrity
program beyond what is required by the U.S. EPA including having specific protocols
and procedures that will be followed to identify and address cover integrity issues such
as exposed waste, leachate breakouts, and erosion gullies.

PART G - Alternative Compliance Options

The Commission is providing alternative compliance options in this Rule for those
owners or operators that may need this additional flexibility. An owner or operator may
request alternatives to the requirements of Parts C, D, or I, and Part F, Sections I.A. or
I.B., of the Rule, by submitting a written request for approval by the Division. Alternative
compliance requests for Part F, Sections I.A. or I.B., are also subject to approval by the
Colorado Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division since they involve
cover requirements for an MSW landfill. The alternative compliance options include, but
are not limited to, intermittent operation of the GCCS due to insufficient landfill gas flow
rates and methane concentrations that are insufficient to maintain continuous operation
of the GCCS, and alternative wind speed requirements for performing SEM and GCCS
leak monitoring.

The Division, in approving or disapproving an owner or operator’s request for an
alternative compliance option, will evaluate the request according to the criteria
identified in Part G, Section I.C. as well as any other criteria the Division, in its
discretion, deems appropriate to consider. Any proposed alternative compliance must
be as stringent or more stringent than the requirement in the Rule it would replace.




                                                                                        110
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

PART H - Recordkeeping and Reporting

Recordkeeping requirements, Part H, Section I.

The Commission is establishing extensive yet feasible recordkeeping requirements in
this Rule to support compliance verification and ensure the requirements of the Rule are
being followed. Many of the recordkeeping requirements are existing recordkeeping
requirements established by EPA under its landfill air pollution regulations. All records
an owner or operator is required to maintain must be provided to the Division upon
request. The owner or operator subject to the Rule must maintain records consisting of
the items identified in Part H, Section I.A., for at least five years, and include things such
as waste-in-place and methane generation rate calculations for a landfill; GCCS
downtime and corrective actions; gas control device operating parameters and
performance test results; wellhead monitoring data; biofilter monitoring and
maintenance; SEM and GCCS leak monitoring data; remote methane monitoring
investigations; and, biocover and cover integrity program records.

In Part H, Section I.B., the Commission is also establishing requirements for records
that the owner or operator must maintain on a continuous basis, many of which are
requirements for continuous recordkeeping for the life of the GCCS under federal air
pollution control regulations for MSW landfills. Those items are identified in Part H,
Section I.B.1., and include things such as the design capacity of the landfill, GCCS
design plan, SEM and GCCS leak monitoring plans, GCCS expansions and equipment
installed, up-to-date maps of the GCCS system, flare monitoring data for the initial
compliance test or demonstration, and the gas treatment system monitoring plan and
flow monitoring data.

Reporting Requirements, Part H, Section II.

The Rule contains requirements for certain reports and notifications that must be
submitted to the Division. Those reports are identified in Part H, Section II.A., and
include any item identified in the Rule where the owner or operator is required to submit
information to the Division, as well as periodic semi-annual and annual reports. The
Commission has specified in Part H, Section II.A. that all reports and notifications
submitted to the Division must include certain information and a certification statement
signed and dated by a responsible official or designated representative for the MSW
landfill verifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the information being
submitted.




                                                                                          111
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

PART I - Test Methods and Procedures

The Commission is, in large part, incorporating by reference many of the testing
methods from 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, for testing and calculations related to the
gas generation flow rate determination and the gas control device destruction efficiency
in the Rule. The outlined test methods and procedures in this part of the Rule involve
calculating expected gas generation flow rate from an MSW landfill, determining the
methane generation rate for an MSW landfill, conducting wellhead monitoring,
performing enhanced well monitoring, and calculating bioreactor moisture content.

Additional Considerations

The Commission provides the following additional statement, consistent with §§ 25-7-
110.5(5)(b) and 110.8, C.R.S.

(I) Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on
those requirements:

Certain federal requirements are applicable. Colorado was required to submit a state
plan for complying with the MSW landfill new source performance standards (NSPS), in
accordance with Section 111(d) of the Federal Clean Air Act. Colorado timely submitted
a state plan, which was approved, and incorporates by reference 40 CFR Part 60,
Subpart Cf into Regulation Number 6. The federal NSPS requires landfills that exceed a
design capacity and NMOC emissions threshold to install and operate a GCCS, see 40
CFR Part 60, Subpart Cf § 60.33f(a). An MSW landfill with a GCCS must meet
operational standards through wellhead and surface emissions monitoring, see 40 CFR
Part 60, Subpart Cf § 60.34. The requirements in the federal NSPS also require
recordkeeping and reporting, see 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Cf §§ 60.38f and
60.39f.Additionally, MSW landfills are required to report GHG emissions under existing
federal regulations. See 40 CFR Part 98, Subpart HH (Mandatory Reporting Rule). The
Mandatory Reporting Rule requires sources with annual emissions equal to or greater
than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year to report through the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas
Reporting Program. Some specific source types are considered “all in” and required to
report GHG emissions even if they are under the 25,000 metric ton per year threshold.
See 40 CFR Part 98, Subpart A § 98.2(a)(1).

(II) Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-
based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

The Federal NSPS is a mix of technology and performance based, as it sets forth
standards of performance for MSW landfills while requiring certain technology in some
circumstances. For instance, the federal NSPS requirements establish thresholds of
applicability that, if met or exceeded, require the installation of GCCS, see 40 CFR Part
60, Subpart Cf § 60.33f(a). The federal NSPS regulations then require GCCS to meet
performance standards, for example 98% destruction efficiency for a control system or
enclosed combustion device, see 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Cf § 60.33f(c).The federal
NSPS generally provides flexibility to states and sources regarding how to reduce GHG




                                                                                      112
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

emissions and otherwise meet the performance standards, while also requiring certain
operational standards and requirements. The Rule similarly sets forth standards of
performance for MSW landfills, while providing flexibility to sources regarding how to
collect and control methane emissions. For instance, the Rule sets thresholds of
applicability for conducting SEM and/or installing and operating GCCS, but does not
require specific equipment for the GCCS, and instead sets destruction efficiency,
operational, and other performance requirements. The Rule additionally does not set
emissions limits or emissions reduction goals.

(III) Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are
of concern in Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect
Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal process that established
the federal requirements;

The applicable federal requirements do not specifically address the issues that are of
concern in Colorado because Colorado has established statewide GHG reduction goals
that this Rule is needed to help achieve. Data regarding GHG emissions including
methane emissions and control technologies was considered in the federal process
leading up to the NSPS, see 81 FR 59276. The federal GHG reporting program
requirements provide data regarding methane emissions from certain MSW landfills in
the state and the nation, see 89 FR 31802. The U.S. revised DOC and k values in the
latest updates to Subpart HH based on multivariate analysis based on facility reported
data to allow landfill to more accurately model methane generation, and thus emissions.
The Commission concludes that the adopted Rule will provide reductions in Colorado
methane emissions in a more appropriate and timely manner than the federal NSPS.

(IV) Whether the proposed requirements will improve the ability of the regulated
community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially
conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or
reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent requirements later;

The adopted Rule will provide certainty to sources, by providing specified technology-
based performance standards and clear timing requirements. The adopted Rule aids
Colorado in achieving its GHG emissions reduction goals required in § 25-7-
102(2)(g)(I), C.R.S., and provides regulated entities flexibility to identify and cost-
effectively employ emissions control technologies to reduce methane emissions in the
state.

(V) Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
implementation of federal requirements;

The Rule does not change the time frame for implementing federal requirements. The
Rule allows regulated entities a reasonable time to comply with the reporting,
installation of GCCS, monitoring, performance testing, and other requirements in the
Rule, and allows opportunities for alternative compliance.




                                                                                      113
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

(VI) Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

The adopted Rule will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin for
accommodation of uncertainty and future growth. The Rule does not put limits on landfill
waste acceptance. Part C, Sections I.A., I.C., I.D., regarding installation and operation
of GCCS, affords MSW landfills reasonable time for meeting methane emissions control
requirements. Furthermore, MSW landfills are afforded the ability to affect required
emissions controls through alternative compliance measures where needed and
established in Part G. Part C provides multiple pathways for MSW landfills to
accomplish methane emissions controls including the use of open or closed flares,
boilers, process heaters, vertical and/or horizontal wells, biocovers, and other GCCS
options, providing sources flexibility to accommodate uncertainty and future growth.

(VII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
the requirements for various sources;

The adopted Rule establishes reasonable equity for sources subject to the Rule by
providing the same standards for similarly situated sources. All similarly situated
covered MSW landfills are equally subject to the surface emissions monitoring and
GCCS requirements. The applicability of the Rule depends on the size, WIP, methane
generation rate and other qualifiers to determine the applicable requirements. All
covered MSW landfills required to install GCCS have the option of using wells,
vacuums, flares, or other compliance options.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

If the Rule were not adopted, public health and welfare and the environment could face
increased harms associated with delayed or reduced methane controls. The General
Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and
directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across all sectors of our economy.
Colorado has established specific GHG reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. The
GHG Roadmap 2.0 identifies methane reductions from MSW landfills as a near term
action that will help Colorado achieve the statutory GHG emissions reduction goals.
Reductions not achieved in one sector will require measures in other sectors of the
economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals.

(IX) Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and
what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements;

There are some different reporting and monitoring requirements in the state Rule
provisions, which are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the state’s technology-
based performance standard. Regarding monitoring, the Rule establishes some
additional and/or different monitoring requirements than the federal regulations in Part
D. Federal regulations require surface emissions monitoring to be conducted by




                                                                                      114
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

traversing the surface of the landfill at no more than 30-meter intervals, see CFR 40
Part 60, Subpart Cf § 60.36f(c)(1). The Rule requires surface emissions monitoring to
be conducted at 25-foot intervals. Federal regulations require an initial performance
testing of a control system or enclosed combustion device upon installation, see CFR
40 Part 60, Subpart Cf § 60.33f(c)(2). The Rule requires more frequent performance
tests of the control system. The Rule establishes some additional and/or different
recordkeeping and reporting requirements in Part H, and additional and/or different
procedural requirements throughout. There are no federal regulations requiring MSW
landfills to investigate and respond to notifications of remote emission detections. The
state Rule requires follow-up and reporting of investigations upon notification of remote
emission detections. All additions and/or differences from the federal regulations will
ensure compliance of MSW landfills in Colorado, and will inform the state’s strategies
and future regulations to accomplish the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals and
address the impacts of climate change set forth in § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S.

(X) Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
requirements;

Demonstrated technology is available to control methane emissions. Part C does not
require the use of specific technology for every step in the gas collection and control
system, but instead allows the MSW landfill to choose the technology used so long as it
meets the performance and operation requirements of the Rule. Many MSW landfills in
the State are currently using many of the technology options under this Rule already.
However, this Rule may require installation of updated technologies already in use. The
Rule is based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by
interested parties.

(XI) Whether the proposed requirements will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

The adopted Rule will contribute to the prevention of pollution by reducing methane
emissions and other harmful air pollution including H2S. The methane emissions and
other emissions reductions from this Rule are expected to help Colorado achieve the
statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. Anticipated
reductions in harmful air pollutants are expected to have positive health benefits for the
people of Colorado. The Rule is cost-effective in light of the additional pollution
reduction that will result from the Rule.




                                                                                       115
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

(XII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
required standard.

This Rule is consistent with the projected emissions reductions set out in the GHG
Roadmap 2.0 needed to achieve the statewide GHG emissions reduction goals § 25-7-
102(2)(g), C.R.S . Alternatives exist for how to accomplish these requirements,
including different thresholds of applicability, the use of different GCCS equipment, as
well as different timing requirements for installation and operation of GCCS. The
Commission determined that this Rule is necessary and will appropriately aid the state
in achieving the statutory emissions reduction goals. A no action alternative could
prevent Colorado from achieving the statutory GHG reduction goals.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)     This Rule is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
        scientific methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
        methodologies and information made available by interested parties has been
        considered.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the Rule shall result in
        demonstrable reduction in methane emissions reductions and reductions in
        harmful air pollution and will enable the Commission to satisfy the requirements
        of §§ 25-7-102, -105(1)(e), -106, and/or -109, as applicable.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the Rule shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that will justify the costs
        to government, the regulated community, and to the public to implement and
        comply with the Rule.

(IV)    The Rule is the most cost-effective means to achieve the necessary and desired
        results and reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The Rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.




                                                                                          116
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                             5 CCR 1001-35
Air Quality Control Commission

______________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 02/14/2026.




                                                                   117
