CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 21  CONTROL OF VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS FROM
    CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND ARCHITECTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE COATINGS

    5 CCR 1001-25
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A              CONCERNING CONSUMER PRODUCTS

    PART B              CONCERNING ARCHITECTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE COATINGS

    PART C              STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103(12.5), materials incorporated by reference are
    available for public inspection during normal business hours or copies may be obtained at a reasonable
    cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver,
    Colorado 80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference may also be available through the United
    States Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by reference are
    those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any later amendments.

    PART A              CONCERNING CONSUMER PRODUCTS

    I.        Applicability

              I.A.      This part applies to any person who sells, supplies, offers for sale, distributes for sale, or
                        manufactures for sale consumer products in

                        I.A.1.     The 8-hour Ozone Control Area.

                        I.A.2.     Beginning February 14, 2023, applicability in northern Weld County is no longer
                                   on a State Only basis.

                        I.A.3.     (State Only) Colorado. As marked by (State Only), the requirements are not
                                   federally enforceable.

              I.B.      This part does not apply to

                        I.B.1.     Consumer products manufactured in Colorado solely for shipment and use
                                   outside of Colorado.

                        I.B.2.     Consumer products that do not comply with the VOC limits in Table 1 as long as
                                   the manufacturer or distributor can demonstrate both that the consumer product
                                   is intended for shipment and use outside of Colorado and that the manufacturer
                                   or distributor has taken reasonable prudent precautions to assure that the
                                   consumer product is not distributed to Colorado. Section I.B.2. does not apply to
                                   consumer products that are sold, supplied, or offered for sale by any person to
                                   retail outlets in Colorado.




                                                                                                                         1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              I.B.3.    Consumer products that have been granted an Innovative Product exemption by
                        the California Air Resources Board (CARB) under the Innovative Products
                        provisions in Subchapter 8.5, Article 2, Section 94511 (January 2019) or
                        Subchapter 8.5, Article 1, Section 94503.5 (January 2019) of Title 17 of the
                        California Code of Regulations are exempt from the VOC content limits in Table
                        1 for the period of time during which the CARB Innovative Products exemption
                        remains in effect.

              I.B.4.    Consumer products that have been granted an Alternative Control Plan (ACP) by
                        the CARB under the provisions in Subchapter 8.5, Article 4, Sections 94540-
                        94555 (January 2019) of Title 17 of the California Code of Regulations are
                        exempt from the VOC content limits in Table 1 for the period of time during which
                        the CARB ACP agreement remains in effect. Aerosol adhesives, adhesive
                        removers, electronic cleaners, electrical cleaners, energized electrical cleaners,
                        and contact adhesives granted an ACP must be labeled with the term “ACP” or
                        “ACP product” if the product exceeds the applicable VOC limit specified in Table
                        1. Any manufacturer claiming an ACP agreement must make a copy of the ACP
                        decision available to the Division upon request.

              I.B.5.    Consumer products that have been granted a variance by CARB under the
                        Variances provisions in Subchapter 8.5, Article 2, Section 94514 (January 2019)
                        of Title 17 are exempt from complying with the VOC limits established in Table 1
                        for the period of time during which the variance remains in effect. Any person
                        claiming a variance must make a copy of the variance available to the Division
                        upon request.

II.   Standards

      II.A.   On or after May 1, 2020, no person can manufacture for sale in Colorado any consumer
              product with a VOC content in excess of the VOC limit specified in Table 1.

      II.B.   No person can sell, supply, offer for sale, or distribute for sale in Colorado any consumer
              product that is manufactured on or after May 1, 2020, with a VOC content in excess of
              the VOC limit specified in Table 1.

      II.C.   On or after May 1, 2021, no person can manufacture for sale in Colorado any consumer
              product registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA;
              7 USC Section 136-136y (1996)) in excess of the VOC limits in Table 1.

      II.D.   No person can sell, supply, offer for sale, or distribute for sale in Colorado any consumer
              product registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA;
              7 USC Section 136-136y (1996)) and manufactured on or after May 1, 2021, with a VOC
              content in excess of the VOC limits in Table 1.

      II.E.   Effective May 1, 2020, and until May 1, 2021, no person can manufacture for sale, sell,
              supply, or offer for sale any flammable or extremely flammable, as labeled or meeting the
              criteria in Title 16 CFR Section 1500.3(c)(6) (February 27, 2018), paint thinner or multi-
              purpose solvent labeled as a clean-up solvent or paint clean-up product unless the
              product is clearly and prominently labeled with

              II.E.1.   “DANGER,” “WARNING,” or “CAUTION” and “Formulated to meet California
                        VOC limits; see warnings on label”; or




                                                                                                           2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              II.E.2.   The common name of the chemical compound (e.g., acetone, methyl acetate,
                        etc.) that results in the product meeting the criteria for flammable or extremely
                        flammable.

      II.F.   Charcoal lighter material products must be issued a certification in accordance with
              Subchapter 8.5, Article 2, Section 94509(h) (January 1, 2019) of Title 17 of the California
              Code of Regulations.

      II.G.   For consumer products for which the label, packaging, or accompanying literature
              specifically states that the product should be diluted with water or non-VOC solvent prior
              to use, the limits specified in Table 1 apply to the product only after the minimum
              recommended dilution has taken place. For purposes of this part, “minimum
              recommended dilution” does not include recommendations for incidental use of a
              concentrated product to deal with limited special applications such as hard to remove
              soils or stains.

              II.G.1. This provision does not apply to multipurpose solvent and paint thinner products
                      manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                      failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                      applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS or automotive windshield
                      washer fluid (dilutable) or automotive windshield washer fluid (pre-mixed).

              II.G.2. For automotive windshield washer fluid (dilutable) where the front panel of the
                      product label specifically states that the product should be diluted (e.g., identified
                      as a concentrate) prior to use, the VOC limits specified in Table 1 apply to the
                      product only after the minimum recommended dilution has taken place.

              II.G.3. For products sold in pump spray containers, the VOC limits specified in Table 1
                      apply to the product prior to any minimum recommended dilution.

      II.H.   For consumer products for which the label, packaging, or accompanying literature states
              that the product should be diluted with any VOC solvent prior to use, the limits specified
              in Table 1 apply to the product only after the maximum recommended dilution has taken
              place.

      II.I.   For consumer products for which the label, packaging, or accompanying literature
              indicates that the product may be used, or is suitable for use, as a consumer product for
              which a lower VOC limit is specified in Table 1, then the lowest VOC limit applies. This
              requirement does not apply to general purpose cleaners, antiperspirant/deodorant
              products, insecticide foggers, or aerosol lawn and garden insecticides claiming to kill
              insects or other arthropods.

              II.I.1.   Notwithstanding Section II.I., a product that makes ancillary disinfecting,
                        sanitizing, or antimicrobial claims on the label is not subject to the VOC
                        standards for disinfectant or sanitizer if the product is designed and labeled as a
                        bathroom and tile cleaner, carpet/upholster cleaner, fabric refresher, general
                        purpose cleaner, glass cleaner, metal polish or cleanser, or toilet/urinal care
                        products.

      II.J.   Consumer products specified in Table 1 cannot contain any of the following

              II.J.1.   CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane).

              II.J.2.   CFC-12 (dichlorodifluoromethane).




                                                                                                              3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              II.J.3.   CFC-113 (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane).

              II.J.4.   CFC-114 (1-chloro-1,1-difluoro-2-chloro-2,2-difluoroethane).

              II.J.5.   CFC-115 (chloropentafluoroethane).

              II.J.6.   Halon 1211 (bromochlorodifluoromethane).

              II.J.7.   Halon 1301 (bromotrifluoromethane).

              II.J.8.   Halon 2402 (dibromotetrafluoroethane).

              II.J.9.   HCFC-22 (chlorodifluoromethane).

              II.J.10. HCFC-123 (2,2-dichloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane).

              II.J.11. HCFC-124 (2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane).

              II.J.12. HCFC-141b (1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane).

              II.J.13. HCFC-142b (1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane).

              II.J.14. 1,1,1-trichloroethane.

              II.J.15. Carbon tetrachloride.

      II.K.   The following consumer products cannot contain trichloroethylene in a combined amount
              greater than 0.01 percent by weight (i.e., an impurity)

              II.K.1.   Adhesive removers.

              II.K.2.   Aerosol adhesives.

              II.K.3.   Bathroom and tile cleaners.

              II.K.4.   Brake cleaner, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date of a
                        finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment
                        date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.5.   Carburetor or fuel injection air intake cleaner, manufactured on or after 60 days
                        after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by
                        the severe ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the
                        2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.6.   Contact adhesives.

              II.K.7.   Construction, panel, floor covering adhesives.

              II.K.8.   Electrical cleaners.

              II.K.9.   Electronic cleaners.

              II.K.10. Electronic cleaners labeled as energized electronic equipment use only.




                                                                                                             4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              II.K.11. Engine degreaser, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date of a
                       finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment
                       date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.12. Footwear or leather care products.

              II.K.13. General purpose cleaners.

              II.K.14. General purpose degreasers.

              II.K.15. Graffiti removers.

              II.K.16. Lubricants, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding
                       by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or
                       meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.17. Metal polish or cleaner, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date
                       of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone
                       attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.18. Multi-purpose solvent.

              II.K.19. Oven or grill cleaners.

              II.K.20. Paint thinners.

              II.K.21. Sealant or caulking compound, manufactured on or after 60 days after the
                       effective date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe
                       ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone
                       NAAQS.

              II.K.22. Single purpose cleaner, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective date
                       of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone
                       attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.23. Single purpose degreaser, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective
                       date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone
                       attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.K.24. Wasp or hornet insecticide, manufactured on or after 60 days after the effective
                       date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone
                       attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

      II.L.   The medium volatility organic compound (MVOC) content specified for antiperspirants or
              deodorants does not apply to ethanol.

      II.M.   Paint thinners and multi-purpose solvents cannot contain greater than one percent (1%)
              aromatic compound content by weight.

      II.N.   The VOC content limits in Table 1 do not apply to

              II.N.1. Any LVP-VOC.




                                                                                                             5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              II.N.2. Fragrances up to a combined level of 2 percent by weight, except for pressurized
                      gas dusters and fabric softener – single use dryer products manufactured on or
                      after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado
                      to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone
                      under the 2008 ozone NAAQS.

              II.N.3. Colorants up to a combined level of 2 percent by weight in any antiperspirant or
                      deodorant.

              II.N.4. VOCs in antiperspirants or deodorants that contain more than 10 carbon atoms
                      per molecule and for which the vapor pressure is unknown or 2 mm Hg or less at
                      20°C.

              II.N.5. Air fresheners that are comprised entirely of fragrance, less compounds exempt
                      from the definition of VOC.

              II.N.6. Adhesives sold in containers of 1 fluid ounce or less.

              II.N.7. Bait station insecticides designed to be ingested by insects, composed of solid
                      material feeding stimulants with less than 5 percent active ingredients, and in
                      containers less than or equal to 0.5 ounce by weight.

              II.N.8. Solid air fresheners, insecticides, and toilet/urinal care products containing at
                      least 98% para-dichlorobenzene.

      II.O.   On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
              attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the
              2008 ozone NAAQS, fabric softener – single use dryer products must determine
              compliance with the VOC content limit on a per sheet basis, or equivalent delivery
              substrate, based on the minimum recommended use for a single drying cycle specified
              on the product packaging or label. Minimum recommended use does not include
              recommendations for incidental use of additional sheets, or equivalent delivery substrate,
              for limited applications such as for extra-large or double loads of washable fabrics in
              large capacity clothes dryers.



                                    Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                        by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                        attain by the severe ozone
                                                                        attainment date or meet an
                                                                        applicable milestone under the
                                                                        2008 ozone NAAQS

              Product category                  VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

              Adhesive removers

              * Floor or wall covering                    5

              * Gasket or thread locking                  50

              * General purpose                           20




                                                                                                           6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                    Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                        by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                        attain by the severe ozone
                                                                        attainment date or meet an
                                                                        applicable milestone under the
                                                                        2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                   VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Specialty                                  70

             Adhesives

             * Aerosol mist spray                         65                             30

             * Aerosol web spray                          55                             40

             * Specialty purpose spray                    70
             adhesive – mounting,
             automotive engine compartment,
             and flexible vinyl

             * Specialty purpose spray                    65
             adhesive – polystyrene foam
             and automotive headliner

             * Specialty purpose spray                    60
             adhesive – polylolefin and
             laminate repair/edgebanding

             * Specialty purpose spray                                                   55
             adhesive – screen printing

             * Construction, panel, and floor             7
             covering

             * Contact general purpose                    55

             * Contact special purpose                    80

             * General purpose                            10

             * Structural waterproof                      15                             NA

             Air fresheners

             * Single-phase aerosol                       30

             * Double-phase aerosol                       25                             20

             * Dual purpose air                           60
             freshener/disinfectant aerosol

             * Liquid/pump sprays                         18




                                                                                                           7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                   Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                               Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                               after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                       by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                       attain by the severe ozone
                                                                       attainment date or meet an
                                                                       applicable milestone under the
                                                                       2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                  VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Solids/semisolids                         3

             Antiperspirants

             * Aerosol                          40 HVOC, 10 MVOC

             * Non-aerosol                        0 HVOC, 0 MVOC

             Anti-static product

             * Aerosol                                   80

             * Non-aerosol                               11

             Astringent/toner                                                           35

             Automotive rubbing or polishing             17
             compound

             Automotive wax, polish,
             sealant, or glaze

             * Hard paste waxes                          45

             * Instant detailers                         3

             * All other forms                           15

             Automotive windshield cleaner               35

             Automotive windshield washer                35
             fluids

             Bathroom and tile cleaners

             * Aerosol                                   7

             * Non-aerosol                               1

             Brake cleaner                               10

             Bug and tar remover                         40




                                                                                                          8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                    Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                        by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                        attain by the severe ozone
                                                                        attainment date or meet an
                                                                        applicable milestone under the
                                                                        2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                   VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             Carburetor or fuel-injection air             10
             intake cleaners

             Carpet/upholstery cleaners

             * Aerosol                                    7                              5

             * Non-aerosol (dilutables)                  0.1

             * Non-aerosol (ready-to-use)                 3                              1

             Charcoal lighter material             See Section II.F.

             Cooking spray, aerosol                       18

             Deodorants

             * Aerosol                            0 HVOC, 10 MVOC

             * Non-aerosol                         0 HVOC, 0 MVOC

             Disinfectant

             * Aerosol                                    70

             * Non-aerosol                                1

             Dusting aids

             * Aerosol                                    25                             17

             * Non-aerosol                                7                              3

             Electrical cleaner                           45

             Electronic cleaner                           75

             Engine degreasers

             * Aerosol                                    10

             * Non-aerosol                                5

             Fabric protectants                           60                             NA




                                                                                                           9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                    Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                  Manufactured on or     Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                  after May 1, 2020      after the effective date of a finding
                                                                         by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                         attain by the severe ozone
                                                                         attainment date or meet an
                                                                         applicable milestone under the
                                                                         2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                     VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Aerosol                                                                    60

             * Non-aerosol                                                                1

             Fabric refresher

             * Aerosol                                     15

             * Non-aerosol                                  6

             Fabric softener-single use dryer                               0.05 grams of VOC per use per
             product                                                       recommended delivery substrate

             Floor maintenance product                                                    1

             Floor polishes or waxes

             * Resilient flooring materials                 1

             * Non-resilient flooring materials             1

             * Wood floor wax                              90                             70

             Footwear or leather care
             products

             * Aerosol                                     75

             * Solid                                       55

             * Other forms                                 15

             Furniture maintenance
             products

             * Aerosol                                     17                             12

             * Non-aerosol (except solid or                 3
             paste)

             General purpose cleaners

             * Aerosol                                      8




                                                                                                           10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                    Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                        by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                        attain by the severe ozone
                                                                        attainment date or meet an
                                                                        applicable milestone under the
                                                                        2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                   VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Non-aerosol                                4                              0.5

             General purpose degreasers

             * Aerosol                                    10

             * Non-aerosol                                4                              0.5

             Glass cleaners

             * Aerosol                                    12                             10

             * Non-aerosol                                4                              3

             Graffiti remover

             * Aerosol                                    50

             * Non-aerosol                                30

             Hair mousses                                 6

             Hairshines                                   55

             Hairsprays                                   55                             NA

             Hair finishing spray                                                        55

             Hair styling products

             * Aerosol and pump sprays                    6

             * All other forms                            2

             Heavy-duty hand cleaner or                   8                              NA
             soap

             * All forms                                                                 8

             * Non-aerosol                                                               1

             Insect repellent, aerosol                                                   65

             Insecticides




                                                                                                          11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                      Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                  Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                  after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                          by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                          attain by the severe ozone
                                                                          attainment date or meet an
                                                                          applicable milestone under the
                                                                          2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                     VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Crawling bug, aerosol                        15

             * Crawling bug, all other forms                20

             * Flea and tick                                25

             * Flying bug, aerosol                          25                             20

             * Flying bug, all other forms                  35

             * Foggers                                      45

             * Lawn or garden, non-aerosol                  3

             * Lawn or garden, all other forms              20

             * Wasp or hornet                               40                             10

             Laundry prewash

             * Aerosols/solids                              22

             * All other forms                              5

             Laundry starch/sizing/fabric                  4.5
             finish products

             Lubricant

             * Anti-seize - aerosol                                                        40

             * Anti-seize – non-aerosol                                                    3

             * Cutting or tapping oil – aerosol                                            25

             * Cutting or tapping oil – non-                                               3
             aerosol

             * Multi-purpose lubricant                      50                             25
             (excluding solid or semi-solid
             products)

             * Penetrant                                    50




                                                                                                            12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                   Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                               Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                               after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                       by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                       attain by the severe ozone
                                                                       attainment date or meet an
                                                                       applicable milestone under the
                                                                       2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                  VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             * Rust preventative or rust                                                25
             control - aerosol

             * Rust preventative or rust                                                3
             control – non-aerosol

             * Silicone-based multi-purpose              60
             lubricants (excluding solid or
             semi-solid products)

             Metal polishes/cleansers                    30                             NA

             * Aerosol                                                                  15

             * Non-aerosol                                                              3

             Motor vehicle wash, non-aerosol                                            0.2




             Multi-purpose solvent                       3                              NA

             * Aerosol                                                                  10

             * Non-aerosol                                                              3

             Nail polish remover                         1

             Non-selective terrestrial                   3
             herbicide, non-aerosols

             Odor remover/eliminator

             * Aerosol                                                                  25

             * Non-aerosol                                                              6

             Oven or grill cleaners

             * Aerosol                                   8

             * Non-aerosol                               4

             Paint remover or strippers                  50




                                                                                                         13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                  Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                              Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                              after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                      by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                      attain by the severe ozone
                                                                      attainment date or meet an
                                                                      applicable milestone under the
                                                                      2008 ozone NAAQS

             Product category                 VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

             Paint thinner                              3                              NA

             * Aerosol                                                                 10

             * Non-aerosol                                                             3




             Pressurized gas duster                                                    1

             Rubber/vinyl protectants

             * Aerosol                                  10

             * Non-aerosol                              3

             Sanitizer

             * Aerosol                                  70

             * Non-aerosol                              1

             Sealants and caulking                      4                              NA
             compounds

             Chemically curing, non-aerosol                                            3

             Nonchemically curing, non-                                                1.5
             aerosol

             Shaving creams                             5

             Shaving gel                                4




             Spot removers

             * Aerosol                                  25                             15

             * Non-aerosol                              8                              3

             Temporary hair color, aerosol              55




                                                                                                        14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                                      Table 1 – VOC content limits for consumer products

                                                  Manufactured on or      Manufactured on or after 60 days
                                                  after May 1, 2020       after the effective date of a finding
                                                                          by EPA of a failure by Colorado to
                                                                          attain by the severe ozone
                                                                          attainment date or meet an
                                                                          applicable milestone under the
                                                                          2008 ozone NAAQS

                Product category                  VOC content limit (percent VOCs by weight)

                Tire or wheel cleaner

                * Aerosol                                                                  8

                * Non-aerosol                                                              2

                Tire sealants and inflators                 20

                Toilet/urinal care

                * Aerosol                                   10

                * Non-aerosol                               3

                Undercoatings, aerosol                      40

                Wood cleaner

                * Aerosol                                   17

                * Non-aerosol                               4

III.   Container labeling

       III.A.   The manufacturer of any consumer product subject to a VOC limit in Table 1, except
                products registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
                (FIFRA; 7 U.S.C. Section 136-136y) (1996) and products containing VOCs at 0.10
                percent by weight or less, must clearly display on the container or package the date the
                product was manufactured or a date code representing the date of manufacture. The
                date or date code must be displayed on the container such that it is readily observable
                without removing or disassembling any portion of the product container or packaging.

       III.B.   If the label on a special purpose spray adhesive indicates that the product is suitable for
                use on any substrate or application not listed in the definition for special purpose spray
                adhesive, the product must be classified as either a web spray adhesive or mist spray
                adhesive and meet the associated limit in Table 1.

       III.C.   The label on non-aerosol floor wax strippers must specify a dilution ratio for light or
                medium build-up of polish that results in an as-used VOC concentration of 3 percent by
                weight or less. The label on a non-aerosol floor wax stripper that is also intended to be
                used for removal of heavy build-up of polish that results must specify a dilution ratio for
                heavy build-up of polish that results in an as-used VOC concentration of 12 percent by
                weight or less.




                                                                                                              15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      III.D.   The label on energized electrical cleaners must clearly display “Energized equipment use
               only. Not to be used for motorized vehicle maintenance or their parts.”

      III.E.   The label on zinc rich primers must clearly display “for professional use only,” “for
               industrial use only,” or “not for residential use” or “not intended for residential use.”

      III.F.   The label on aerosol adhesives, adhesive removers, electronic cleaners, electrical
               cleaners, energized electrical cleaners, contact adhesive products, and on or after 60
               days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the
               severe ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone
               NAAQS sealant or caulking compound must clearly display

               III.F.1. The product category.

               III.F.2. The applicable VOC standard for the product, except energized electrical
                        cleaners, as a percentage by weight.

               III.F.3. For special purpose spray adhesives, the applicable substrate and/or application
                        that qualifies the product as special purpose.

IV.   Reporting

      IV.A.    Manufacturers of a solid air freshener, insecticide, or toilet/urinal care consumer product
               that contains at least 98% para-dichlorobenzene must maintain records necessary to
               demonstrate the para-dichlorobenzene content. These records must be maintained for a
               minimum of three (3) years and made available to the Division within 90 days after written
               notice.

      IV.B.    Manufacturers of consumer products that have been granted an Innovative Product
               exemption must maintain records necessary to demonstrate that the exemption applies
               and remains in effect. These records must be maintained for a minimum of three (3)
               years and made available to the Division within 90 days after written notice.

      IV.C.    Manufacturers of consumer products that have been granted an Alternative Control Plan
               agreement must maintain records necessary to demonstrate that the agreement applies
               and during what time period the agreement was in effect. These records must be
               maintained for a minimum of three (3) years and made available to the Division within 90
               days after written notice.

      IV.D.    Upon 90 days’ written notice, the Division may require any responsible party to report any
               of the following information for any consumer product subject to a VOC limit in Table 1. If
               the responsible party does not have or does not provide the information requested by the
               Division, the Division may require the reporting of this information by the person that has
               the information, including, but not limited to, any formulator, manufacturer, supplier,
               parent company, private labeler, distributor, or repackager.

               IV.D.1. The company name of the responsible party, address, telephone number, and
                       designated contact person.

               IV.D.2. Any claim of confidentiality made pursuant to Colorado requirements.

               IV.D.3. The consumer product brand name for each consumer product, product label,
                       and product category to which the consumer product belongs.

               IV.D.4. The applicable product form(s) listed separately.




                                                                                                             16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


             IV.D.5. An identification of each product brand name and form as a “Household Product,”
                     “I&I Product,” or both.

             IV.D.6. Colorado sales in pounds per year, to the nearest pound, and the method used
                     to calculate Colorado sales for each consumer product.

             IV.D.7. For information submitted by multiple companies, an identification of each
                     company which is submitting relevant data separate from that submitted by the
                     responsible party.

             IV.D.8. For each consumer product brand name, the identity, including the specific
                     chemical name and associated Chemical Abstract Services (CAS) number, of

                    IV.D.8.a.           Each Table B compound.

                    IV.D.8.b.           Each LVP-VOC that is not a fragrance.

             IV.D.9. For each consumer product brand name, the net percent by weight of the total
                     product, less container and packaging, rounded to the nearest one-tenth of a
                     percent, for each of the following

                    IV.D.9.a.           Total Table B compounds.

                    IV.D.9.b.           Total LVP-VOCs that are not fragrances.

                    IV.D.9.c.       Total all other carbon-containing compounds that are not
                            fragrances.

                    IV.D.9.d.           Total fragrance.

                    IV.D.9.e.        For consumer products containing greater than two percent by
                            weight fragrance, the percent of fragrance that are LVP-VOCs and the
                            percent of fragrance that are all other carbon-containing compounds.

                    IV.D.9.f.           Total all non-carbon-containing compounds.

                    IV.D.9.g.           Total para-dichlorobenzene.

                    IV.D.10.             The type of propellant (e.g., Type A, Type B, or a blend of the
                                different types) and weight percent comprised of propellant for each
                                consumer product, if applicable.

                    IV.D.11.              The net percent by weight of each ozone-depleting compound
                                listed in Section II.J. and contained in any amount greater than 0.1
                                percent be weight, if applicable.

                    IV.D.12.          Documentation that the consumer product meets the applicable
                                VOC content limit specified in Table 1.

                    IV.D.13.             Documentation explaining the date portion of the date code
                                indicating the date of manufacture.




                                                                                                           17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


V.    Test methods

      V.A.    Testing to determine compliance with the requirements of this part, except for charcoal
              lighter material products (see Section II.F.), may be performed using CARB Method 310,
              Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) in Consumer Products, adopted
              September 25, 1997, and as last amended on December 31, 2018, or through calculation
              of the VOC content from records of the amounts of constituents used to make the product
              if

              V.A.1. The manufacturer keeps accurate records for each day of production of the
                     amount and chemical composition of the individual product constituents. Records
                     must be maintained for three (3) years and made available to the Division upon
                     request; and

              V.A.2. VOC content is calculated according to the following equation:

                       VOC content = ((B-C)/A) x 100

                       Where

                       A = total net weight of unit (excluding container and packaging)

                       B = total weight of all VOCs, per unit

                       C = total weight of VOCs exempted under Section II.N., per unit

              V.A.3.         If product records are contradicted by product testing performed using
                       CARB Method 310, the results of CARB Method 310 take precedence.

      V.B.    Testing to determine whether a product is a liquid or solid must be performed using
              ASTM D4359-90(2000)e1 “Standard Test Method for Determining Whether a Material Is
              a Liquid or a Solid” (2012).

VI.   Definitions

      VI.A.   “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder
              (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and Jefferson; the Cities and
              Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the following portions of the Counties of Larimer
              and Weld:

              VI.A.1. For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), that portion
                      of the county that lies south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point
                      on Larimer County’s eastern boundary and Weld County’s western boundary
                      intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude, proceed
                      west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1
                      seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29 minutes, and 40.0 seconds west
                      longitude, thence proceed south on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west
                      longitude to the intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north
                      latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4 seconds north
                      latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s western boundary and Grand
                      County’s eastern boundary.




                                                                                                      18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.A.2. For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of a line described as
                      follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s eastern boundary and Logan
                      County’s western boundary intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds
                      north latitude, proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
                      latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer
                      County’s eastern boundary.

      VI.B.   “Adhesive” means any product that is used to bond one surface to another by
              attachment. Adhesive does not include products used on humans and animals, adhesive
              tape, contact paper, wallpaper, shelf liners, or any other product with an adhesive
              incorporated onto or in an inert substrate.

      VI.C.   “Adhesive remover” means a product designed to remove adhesive from either a specific
              substrate or a variety of substrates but does not include products that remove adhesives
              intended exclusively for use on humans or animals. For the purposes of this definition,
              adhesive means a substance used to bond one or more materials including, but not
              limited to, caulks, sealants, glues, or similar substances used for the purpose of forming a
              bond.

              VI.C.1. “Floor or wall covering adhesive remover” means a product designed or labeled
                      to remove floor or wall coverings and associated adhesive from the underlying
                      substrate.

              VI.C.2. “Gasket or thread locking adhesive remover” means a product designed or
                      labeled to remove gaskets or thread locking adhesives. Gasket or thread locking
                      adhesive remover includes products labeled for dual use as a paint stripper and
                      gasket remover and/or thread locking adhesive remover.

              VI.C.3. “General purpose adhesive remover” means a product designed or labeled to
                      remove cyanoacrylate adhesives as well as non-reactive adhesives or residues
                      from a variety of substrates. General purpose adhesive remover includes, but is
                      not limited to, products that remove thermoplastic adhesives; pressure sensitive
                      adhesives; dextrin or starch based adhesives; casein glues; rubber or latex-
                      based adhesives; and stickers, decals, stencils, or similar materials. General
                      purpose adhesive remover does not include floor or wall covering adhesive
                      remover.

              VI.C.4. “Specialty adhesive remover” means a product designed to remove reactive
                      adhesives from a variety of substrates. Reactive adhesives include adhesives
                      that require a hardener or catalyst in order for the bond to occur such as, but not
                      limited to, epoxies, urethanes, and silicones. Specialty adhesive remover does
                      not include gasket or thread locking adhesive remover.

      VI.D.   “Aerosol adhesive” means an aerosol product in which the spray mechanism is
              permanently housed in a non-refillable can designed for hand-held application of
              adhesive without the need for ancillary hoses or spray equipment. Aerosol adhesives
              include special purpose spray adhesive, mist spray adhesives, and web spray adhesives.

      VI.E.   “Aerosol coating product” means a pressurized coating product containing pigment or
              resin that dispenses product ingredients by means of a propellant and is packaged in a
              disposable aerosol container for hand-held application or for use in specialized
              equipment for ground traffic/marking applications. An aerosol coating product may
              include other coating solid ingredients.




                                                                                                       19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.F.   “Aerosol cooking spray” means any aerosol product designed either to reduce sticking on
              cooking and baking surfaces or to be applied on food, or both.

      VI.G.   “Aerosol product” means a pressurized spray system that dispenses product ingredients
              by means of a propellant contained in a product or a product's container or a
              mechanically induced force but does not include pump spray.

      VI.H.   “Agricultural use” means the use of any pesticide or method or device for the control of
              pests in connection with the commercial production, storage, or processing of any animal
              or plant crop. Agricultural use does not include the sale or use of pesticides in properly
              labeled packages or containers which are intended for home use (use in a household or
              its immediate environment), use in structural pest control (use requiring a license),
              industrial use (use for or in a manufacturing, mining, or chemical process or use in the
              operation of factories, processing plants, and similar sites), or institutional use (use within
              or on property necessary for the operation of buildings such as hospital, schools,
              libraries, auditorium, and office complexes).

      VI.I.   “Air freshener” means any product including, but not limited to, sprays, wicks, wipes,
              diffusers, powders, and crystals, designed or labeled for the purpose of masking odors,
              or freshening, cleaning, scenting, or deodorizing the air. Air fresheners includes dual
              purpose air freshener/disinfectant products, which are aerosol products represented on
              the product container, label, packaging, or attached literature for use as both a
              disinfectant and an air freshener. Air freshener does not include products that are used
              on the human body, products that function primarily as cleaning products as indicated on
              the product label, odor remover/eliminator, toilet/urinal care products, or disinfectants
              when offered for sale solely through institutional and industrial channels of distribution.

      VI.J.   “All other carbon-containing compounds” means other compounds which contain at least
              one carbon atom and are not a table B compound or a LVP-VOC.

      VI.K.   “All other forms” means all consumer product forms for which no form-specific VOC
              standard is specified and include, but are not limited to, solids, liquids (including the liquid
              containing or liquid impregnated portion of the cloth or paper wipes), wicks, powders, and
              crystals.

      VI.L.   “Antimicrobial hand or body cleaner or soap” means a cleaner or soap which is designed
              to reduce the level of microorganisms on the skin through germicidal activity and is
              regulated as an over-the-counter drug by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
              Antimicrobial hand or body cleaner or soap includes, but is not limited to, antimicrobial
              hand or body washes/cleaners, food handler hand washes, healthcare personnel hand
              washes, preoperative skin preparations, and surgical scrubs. Antimicrobial hand or body
              cleaner or soap does not include prescription drug products, antiperspirants,
              astringent/toner, deodorant, facial cleaner or soap, general-use hand or body cleaner or
              soap, hand dishwashing detergent (including antimicrobial), heavy-duty hand cleaner or
              soap, medicated astringent/medicated toner, and rubbing alcohol.

      VI.M.   “Antiperspirant” means any product including, but not limited to, aerosols, roll-ons, sticks,
              pumps, pads, creams, and squeeze-bottles, that is intended by the manufacturer to be
              used to reduce perspiration in the human axilla by at least 20 percent in at least 50
              percent of a target population.

      VI.MN. “Anti-static product” means a product that is labeled to eliminate, prevent, or inhibit the
             accumulation of static electricity. Anti-static product does not include electronic cleaner,
             floor polish or wax, floor coating, aerosol coating products, or architectural coatings.




                                                                                                           20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.O.   “Architectural coating” means a coating applied to stationary structures and their
              appurtenances, to mobile homes, to pavements, or to curbs.

      VI.P.   “Aromatic compound” means a carbon containing compound, except compounds exempt
              from the definition of VOC, that contains one or more benzene or equivalent heterocyclic
              rings and has an initial boiling point less than or equal to 280 degrees C.

      VI.Q.   “Artist solvent/thinner” means any liquid product, labeled to meet ASTM D4236 – 94
              (March 1, 2005) Standard Practice for Labeling Art Materials for Chronic Health Hazards,
              and packaged in a container equal to or less than 34 fluid ounces, labeled to reduce the
              viscosity of, and or remove, art coating compositions or components.

      VI.R.   “Astringent/toner” means any product designed or labeled to be applied to the skin for the
              purpose of cleaning or tightening pores including clarifiers and substrate-impregnated
              products. Astringent/toner does not include medicated astringent/medicated toner, cold
              cream, lotion, antiperspirant, or any astringent/toner product regulated as a drug by the
              U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

      VI.S.   “Automotive hard paste wax” means an automotive wax or polish that is designed to
              protect and improve the appearance of automotive paint surfaces, is solid at room
              temperature, and contains zero percent (0%) water by formulation.

      VI.T.   “Automotive instant detailer” means a product designed for use in a pump spray that is
              applied to the painted surface of automobiles and wiped off prior to the product being
              allowed to dry.

      VI.U.   “Automotive rubbing or polishing compound” means a product designed primarily to
              remove oxidation, old paint, scratches or “swirl marks”, and other defects from the
              painted surfaces of motor vehicles without leaving a protective barrier.

      VI.V.   “Automotive wax, polish, sealant, or glaze” means a product designed to seal out
              moisture, increase gloss, or otherwise enhance a motor vehicle’s painted surfaces and
              includes, but is not limited to, products designed for use in auto body repair shops, drive-
              through car washes, and products designed for the general public. Automotive wax,
              polish, sealant, or glaze does not include automotive rubbing or polishing compounds,
              automotive wash and wax products, surfactant-containing car wash products, and
              products designed for use on unpainted surfaces such as bare metal, chrome, glass, or
              plastic.

      VI.W.   “Automotive windshield cleaner” means a product labeled for automotive use only,
              packaged as an automotive windshield cleaner in the form of a moistened towelette, and
              designed to be used on automotive windshields, automotive mirrors, and automotive
              headlights. Automotive windshield cleaner does not include automotive windshield
              washer fluid.

      VI.X.   “Automotive windshield washer fluid” means any liquid dilutable or premixed product that
              is designed or labeled for use in a motor vehicle windshield washer system either as an
              antifreeze or for the purpose of cleaning, washing, bug removal, or wetting the
              windshield. Automotive windshield washer fluid does not include any fluid placed in a new
              motor vehicle at the time the vehicle is manufactured. For purposes of this definition,
              dilutable means product sold in a container with a capacity of ten (10) gallons or more or
              a container with a capacity of one (1) quart or less and pre-mixed means any product
              sold in a container with a capacity that is greater than one (1) quart but less than ten (10)
              gallons.




                                                                                                        21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.Y.   “Bathroom and tile cleaner” means a product designed or labeled to clean tile or surfaces
              in bathrooms. Bathroom and tile cleaner does not include toilet/urinal care product.

      VI.Z.   “Brake cleaner” means a cleaning product designed to remove oil, grease, brake fluid,
              brake pad material, or dirt from motor vehicle brake mechanisms.

      VI.AA. “Bug and tar remover” means a product labeled to remove biological-type residues, such
             as insect carcasses and tree sap, and/or road grime, such as road tar, roadway paint
             markings, and asphalt, from painted motor vehicle surfaces without causing damage to
             the finish.

      VI.BB. “Carburetor or fuel-injection air intake cleaners” means a product designed or labeled to
             remove fuel deposits, dirt, or other contaminants from a carburetor, choke, throttle body
             of a fuel-injection system, or associated linkages. Carburetor or fuel-injection air intake
             cleaner does not include products designed or labeled exclusively to be introduced
             directly into the fuel lines or fuel storage tank prior to introduction into the carburetor or
             fuel injectors or products designed or labeled exclusively to be introduced during engine
             operation directly into air intake vacuum lines by using a pressurized sprayer wand.

      VI.CC. “Carpet/upholstery cleaner” means a cleaning product designed for the purpose of
             eliminating dirt and stains on rugs, carpeting, and the interior of motor vehicles and/or on
             household furniture or objects upholstered or covered with fabrics such as wool, cotton,
             nylon or other synthetic fabrics. Carpet and upholstery cleaner includes, but is not limited
             to, products that make fabric protectant claims. Carpet/upholstery cleaner does not
             include general purpose cleaners, spot removers, vinyl or leather cleaners, dry cleaning
             fluids, or products designed exclusively for use at industrial facilities engaged in furniture
             or carpet manufacturing.

      VI.DD. “Charcoal lighter material” means any combustible material designed to be applied on,
             incorporated in, added to, or used with charcoal to enhance ignition. Charcoal lighter
             material does not include electrical starters and probes, metallic cylinders using paper
             tinder, natural gas, propane, and fat wood.

      VI.EE. “Coating” means a material applied onto or impregnated into a substrate for protective,
             decorative, or functional purposes.

      VI.FF. “Coating solids” means any nonvolatile ingredient of an aerosol coating product.

      VI.GG. “Colorant” means any pigment or coloring material used in a consumer product for an
             aesthetic effect, or to dramatize an ingredient.

      VI.HH. “Construction, panel, and floor covering adhesive” means any non-aerosol, one-
             component adhesive that is designed or labeled for the installation, remodeling,
             maintenance, or repair of structural and building components that include, but are not
             limited to, beams, trusses, studs, paneling (drywall or drywall laminates, fiberglass
             reinforced plastic (FRP), plywood, particle board, insulation board, pre-decorated
             hardboard or tileboard, etc.), ceiling and acoustical tile, molding, fixtures, countertops or
             countertop laminates, cove or wall bases, and flooring or subflooring or floor or wall
             coverings that include, but are not limited to, wood or simulated wood covering, carpet,
             carpet pad or cushion, vinyl-backed carpet, flexible flooring material, nonresilient flooring
             material, mirror tiles and other types of tiles, and artificial grass. Construction, panel, and
             floor covering adhesive does not include floor seam sealer. Construction, panel and floor
             covering adhesive, does not include units of non-aerosol adhesive, less packaging, which
             weigh more than one pound and consists of more than 16 fluid ounces.




                                                                                                          22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.II.   “Consumer” means any person who purchases or acquires any consumer product for
               personal, family, household, or institutional use. Consumer does not include persons
               acquiring a consumer product for resale.

      VI.JJ.   “Consumer product” means a chemically formulated product used by household and
               institutional consumers including, but not limited to, detergents; cleaning compounds;
               polishes; floor finishes; cosmetics; personal care products; home, lawn, and garden
               products; disinfectants; sanitizers; aerosol paints; automotive specialty products; and
               aerosol adhesives. Consumer product does not include other paint products, furniture
               coatings, or architectural coatings.

      VI.KK. “Contact adhesive” means a non-aerosol adhesive that is designed for application to both
             surfaces to be bonded together, is allowed to dry before the two surfaces are placed in
             contact with each other, forms an immediate bond that is impossible, or difficult, to
             reposition after both adhesive-coated surfaces are placed in contact with each other, and
             does not need sustained pressure or clamping of surfaces after the adhesive-coated
             surfaces have been brought together using sufficient momentary pressure to establish full
             contact between both surfaces. Contact adhesive does not include rubber cements that
             are primarily intended for use on paper substrates or vulcanizing fluids that are designed
             and labeled for tire repair only. Contact adhesive does not include units of adhesive, less
             packaging, which consist of more than one gallon.

      VI.LL. “Contact adhesive – general purpose” means any contact adhesive that is not a contact
             adhesive – special purpose.

      VI.MM. “Contact adhesive – special purpose” means a contact adhesive that: is used to bond
             melamine-covered board, unprimed metal, unsupported vinyl, Teflon, ultra-high molecular
             weight polyethylene, rubber, high pressure laminate or wood veneer 1/16 inch or less in
             thickness to any porous or nonporous surface, and is sold in units of product, less
             packaging, that contain more than eight fluid ounces; or is used in automotive
             applications that are automotive under-the-hood applications requiring heat, oil or
             gasoline resistance, or are body-side molding, automotive weatherstrip or decorative trim.

      VI.NN. “Container/packaging” means the part or parts of the consumer or institutional product
             which serve only to contain, enclose, incorporate, deliver, dispense, wrap or store the
             chemically formulated substance or mixture of substances which is solely responsible for
             accomplishing the purposes for which the product was designed or intended.
             Container/packaging includes any article onto or into which the principle display panel
             and other accompanying literature or graphics are incorporated, etched, printed or
             attached.

      VI.OO. “Crawling bug insecticide” means any insecticide product that is designed for use against
             ants, cockroaches, or other household crawling arthropods, including, but not limited to,
             mites, silverfish, or spiders. Crawling bug insecticide does not include products designed
             to be used exclusively on humans or animals or any house dust mite product. A house
             dust mite product means a product whose label, packaging, or accompanying literature
             states that the product is suitable for use against house dust mites but does not indicate
             that the product is suitable for use against ants, cockroaches, or other household
             crawling arthropods. House dust mite means mites which feed primarily on skin cells
             shed in the home by humans and pets and which belong to the phylum Arthropoda, the
             subphylum Chelicerata, the class Arachnida, the subclass Acari, the order Astigmata,
             and the family Pyroglyphidae.

      VI.PP. “Date-code” means the day, month and year on which the consumer product was
             manufactured, filled, or packaged, or a code indicating such a date.




                                                                                                         23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.QQ. “Deodorant” means any product including, but not limited to, aerosol, roll-ons, sticks,
             pumps, pads, creams, and squeeze-bottles, that indicates or depicts on the container or
             packaging, or on any sticker or label affixed thereto, that the product can be used on or
             applied to the human axilla to provide a scent and/or minimize odor. Deodorant includes
             deodorant body sprays that indicate or depict on the container, packaging, or label that it
             can be used on or applied to the human axilla.

      VI.RR. “Deodorant body spray” means a personal fragrance product with 20 percent or less
             fragrance that is designed for application all over the human body to provide a scent.

      VI.SS. “Device” means any instrument or contrivance (other than a firearm) that is designed for
             trapping, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest or any other form of plant or animal
             life (other than man and bacterium, virus, other microorganism on or in living man or
             other living animals). Device does not include equipment used for the application of
             pesticides when sold separately therefrom.

      VI.TT. “Disinfectant” means a product labeled as a disinfectant or a product registered as a
             disinfectant under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA, 7
             U.S.C. 136, et seq. (1996)) to destroy or irreversibly inactivate infectious or other
             undesirable bacteria, pathogenic fungi, or viruses on surfaces or inanimate objects.
             Disinfectant includes products labeled as both sanitizer and disinfectant. Disinfectant
             does not include products labeled solely for use on humans or animals; agricultural use;
             use in swimming pools, therapeutic tubs, or hot tubs; to be used on heat sensitive critical
             or semi-critical medical devices or medical equipment surfaces; to be applied to food-
             contact surfaces and are not required to be rinsed prior to contact with food; products
             which are pre-moistened wipes or towelettes sold exclusively to medical, convalescent,
             or veterinary establishments; or products labeled as bathroom and tile cleaners, glass
             cleaners, general purpose cleaners, toilet/urinal care products, metal polish or cleanser,
             carpet/upholstery cleaners, or fabric refreshers that may also make disinfecting or anti-
             microbial claims on the label.

      VI.UU. “Distributor” means any person to whom a consumer product is sold or supplied for the
             purposes of resale or distribution in commerce, except that manufacturers, retailers, and
             consumers are not distributors.

      VI.VV. “Double phase aerosol air freshener” means an aerosol air freshener with the liquid
             contents in two or more distinct phases that requires the product container be shaken
             before use to mix the phases, producing an emulsion.

      VI.WW. “Dual purpose air-freshener/disinfectant” means an aerosol product that is represented
             on the product container for use as both a disinfectant and an air freshener, or is so
             represented on any sticker, label, packaging, or literature attached to the product
             container.

      VI.XX. “Dry cleaning fluid” means any non-aqueous liquid product designed and labeled
             exclusively for use on fabrics which are labeled “for dry clean only,” such as clothing or
             drapery, or “S-coded” fabrics. S-coded fabric means an upholstery fabric designed to be
             cleaned only with water-free spot cleaning products as specified by the Joint Industry
             Fabric Standards Committee. Dry cleaning fluid does not include spot removers or
             carpet/upholstery cleaners.




                                                                                                       24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.XX.1.         On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                      failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                      applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, dry cleaning fluid means
                      any non-aqueous solvent that is used in dry cleaning machines at commercial
                      dry cleaners or used by commercial businesses that clean fabrics such as
                      draperies at the customers resident or work place and that is designed and
                      labeled exclusively for use on fabrics which are labeled “for dry clean only,” such
                      as clothing or drapery, or “S-coded” fabrics. Dry cleaning fluid does not include
                      spot remover or carpet/upholstery cleaner.

      VI.YY. “Dusting aid” means a product designed or labeled to assist in removing dust and other
             soils from floors and other surfaces without leaving a wax or silicone based coating.
             Dusting aid does not include pressurized gas duster.

              VI.YY.1.         On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                      failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                      applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, dusting aid means a product
                      complying with the above as well as “or labeled.”

      VI.ZZ. “Electrical cleaner” means a product labeled to remove heavy soils such as grease,
             grime, or oil from electrical equipment, including, but not limited to, electric motors,
             armatures, relays, electric panels, or generators. Electrical cleaner does not include
             general purpose cleaner, general purpose degreaser, dusting aid, electronic cleaner,
             energized electrical cleaner, pressurized gas duster, engine degreaser, anti-static
             product, or products labeled to clean the casings or housings of electrical equipment.

      VI.AAA. “Electronic cleaner” means a product labeled for the removal of dirt, moisture, dust, flux
              or oxides from the internal components of electronic or precision equipment such as
              circuit boards and the internal components of electronic devices, including but not limited
              to, radios, compact disc (CD) players, digital video disc (DVD) players, and computers.
              Electronic cleaner does not include general purpose cleaner, general purpose degreaser,
              dusting aid, pressurized gas duster, engine degreaser, electrical cleaner, energized
              electrical cleaner, anti-static product, or products labeled to clean the casings or housings
              of electronic equipment or energized electrical cleaners. Electronic cleaner does not
              include products labeled to clean and/or degrease electronic equipment, where cleaning
              and/or degreasing is accomplished when electrical current exists, or when there is a
              residual electrical potential from a component and clearly displaying “energized electronic
              equipment use only.”

      VI.BBB “Energized electrical cleaner” means a product labeled to clean and/or degrease
             electrical equipment, where cleaning and/or degreasing is accomplished when electrical
             current exists, or when there is a residual electrical potential from a component, such as
             a capacitor. Energized electrical cleaner does not include electronic cleaner.

      VI.CCC.        “Engine degreaser” means a cleaning product designed or labeled to remove
             grease, grime, oil and other contaminants from the external surfaces of engines and
             other mechanical parts.

      VI.DDD.          “Fabric protectant” means a product labeled to be applied to fabric substrates to
             protect the surface from soiling from dirt or other impurities or to reduce absorption of
             liquid into the fabric fibers. Fabric protectant does not include waterproofers; products
             labeled for use solely on leather; pigmented products that are designed to be used
             primarily for coloring; products used for construction, reconstruction, modification,
             structural maintenance or repair of fabric substrates; or products that renew or restore
             fabric and qualify as either clear coating or vinyl/fabric/leather/polycarbonate coating.




                                                                                                        25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.EEE. “Fabric refresher” means a product labeled to neutralize or eliminate odors on
              nonlaundered fabric including, but not limited to, soft household surfaces, rugs, carpeting,
              draperies, bedding, automotive interiors, footwear, athletic equipment, clothing and/or on
              household furniture or objects upholstered or covered with fabrics such as, but not limited
              to, wool, cotton, or nylon. Fabric refresher does not include anti-static product, carpet and
              upholstery cleaner, footwear or leather care product, spot remover, disinfectant, or
              products labeled for application to both fabric and human skin.

      VI.FFF. “Fabric softener-single use dryer product” means a laundry care product designed or
              labeled for single use in the clothes dryer to impact softness to or control static cling of a
              load of washable fabrics, and may impart a fragrance or scent. For purposes of this
              definition, single use means a product that is intended for one time use during a single
              drying cycle and is removed after the completion of the drying cycle. A load is the amount
              of washable fabrics in a single drying cycle. Fabric softener-single use dryer product
              includes nonwoven sheets which are typically packaged in boxes with a multiple number
              of sheets. Fabric softener-single use dryer product does not include products applied to
              washable fabrics prior to placing the washable fabrics in the clothes dryer.

      VI.GGG.        “Facial cleaner or soap” means a cleaner or soap designed primarily to clean the
            face and includes, but is not limited to, facial cleansing creams, semisolids, liquids,
            lotions, and substrate-impregnated forms. Facial cleaner or soap does not include
            prescription drug products, antimicrobial hand or body cleaner or soap, astringent/toner,
            general-use hand or body cleaner or soap, medicated astringent/medicated toner, or
            rubbing alcohol.

      VI.HHH.        “Fat wood” means pieces of wood kindling with high naturally-occurring levels of
             sap or resin which enhance ignition of the kindling but does not include any kindling with
             substances added to enhance flammability, such as wax-covered or wax-impregnated
             wood-based products.

      VI.III.   “Flea and tick insecticide” means any insecticide product that is designed for use against
                fleas, ticks, their larvae, or their eggs but does not include products that are designed to
                be used exclusively on humans or animals and their bedding.

      VI.JJJ. “Floor coating” means an opaque coating that is labeled and designed for application to
              flooring, including, but not limited to, decks, porches, steps, and other horizontal surfaces
              which may be subject to foot traffic.

      VI.KKK. “Floor maintenance product” means any product designed or labeled to restore, maintain,
              or enhance a previously applied floor finish. Floor maintenance product includes, but is
              not limited to, products that are labeled as spray buff products or floor maintainers or
              restorers. Floor maintenance product does not include floor polish products, products
              designed solely for the purpose of cleaning, products designed or labeled exclusively for
              use on marble floors, or coatings subject to architectural coatings regulation.

      VI.LLL. “Floor polish or wax” means a product designed or labeled to polish, wax, condition,
              protect, temporarily seal, or otherwise enhance floor surfaces by leaving a protective
              finish that is designed or labeled to be periodically replenished. Floor polish or wax
              includes products for resilient flooring materials (including, but not limited to, asphalt,
              cork, linoleum, no-wax, rubber, seamless vinyl, vinyl composite flooring), non-resilient
              flooring materials (including, but not limited to, terrazzo, marble, slate, granite, brick,
              stone, ceramic tile, concrete), and wood floor wax (i.e., wax-based products for use solely
              on wood floors). Floor polish or wax does not include spray buff products, floor wax
              strippers, or products designed or labeled for unfinished wood floors or coatings subject
              to architectural coatings regulations.




                                                                                                          26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.MMM.        “Floor seam sealer” means any product designed and labeled exclusively for
            bonding, fusing, or sealing (coating) seams between adjoining rolls of installed flexible
            sheet flooring.

      VI.NNN.         “Floor wax stripper” means a product designed to remove natural or synthetic
             floor polishes or waxes through breakdown of the polish or wax polymers or by dissolving
             or emulsifying the polish or wax. Floor wax stripper does not include aerosol floor wax
             strippers or products designed to remove floor wax solely through abrasion.

      VI.OOO.        “Flying bug insecticide” means any insecticide product that is designed for use
            against flying insects or other flying arthropods, including, but not limited to, flies,
            mosquitoes, moths, or gnats. Flying bug insecticide does not include wasp and hornet
            insecticide, products designed to be used exclusively on humans or products designed
            and labeled to protect fabrics from damage by moths where the label does not also
            indicate the product is suitable for use against flying insects or other flying arthropods.

      VI.PPP. “Footwear or leather care product” means any product designed or labeled to be applied
              to footwear or to other leather articles/components, to maintain, enhance, clean, protect,
              or modify the appearance, durability, fit, or flexibility of the footwear or leather
              article/component. Footwear or leather care product does not include fabric protectant,
              general purpose adhesive, contact adhesive, vinyl/fabric/leather/polycarbonate coating,
              rubber/vinyl protectant, fabric refresher, or products solely for deodorizing or sealant
              products with adhesive properties used to create external protective layers greater than 2
              millimeters thick.

      VI.QQQ.       “Fragrance” means a substance or complex mixture of aroma chemicals, natural
            essential oils, and other functional components with a combined vapor pressure not in
            excess of 2 millimeters of Mercury (mm Hg) at 20 degrees C, the sole purpose of which is
            to impart an odor or scent or to counteract a malodor.

      VI.RRR.         “Furniture maintenance product” means a wax, polish, conditioner, or any other
             product labeled for the purpose of polishing, protecting or enhancing finished wood
             surfaces, other than floors, and other furniture surfaces including, but not limited to,
             acrylics, ceramic, plastics, stone surfaces, metal surfaces, and fiberglass. Furniture
             maintenance product does not include dusting aids, wood cleaners, and products
             designed solely for the purpose of cleaning or products designed to leave a permanent
             finish such as stains, sanding sealers, and lacquers.

      VI.SSS. “Furniture coating” means any paint designed for application to room furnishings
              including, but not limited to, cabinets (kitchen, bath, and vanity), tables, chairs, beds, and
              sofas.

      VI.TTT. “Gel” means a colloid in which the disperse phase has combined with the continuous
              phase to produce a semisolid material, such as jelly.

      VI.UUU.          “General purpose adhesive” means any non-aerosol adhesive designed for use
             on a variety of substrates. General purpose adhesive does not include contact adhesives;
             construction, panel, and floor covering adhesives; adhesives designed exclusively for
             application on one specific category of substrates (i.e., substrates that are composed of
             similar materials, such as different types of metals, paper products, ceramics, plastics,
             rubbers, or vinyls); or adhesives designed exclusively for use on one specific category of
             articles (i.e., articles that may be composed of different materials but perform a specific
             function, such as gaskets, automotive trim, weatherstripping, or carpets). General
             purpose adhesive, does not include units of non-aerosol adhesive, less packaging, which
             weigh more than one pound and consists of more than 16 fluid ounces.




                                                                                                          27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.VVV. “General purpose cleaner” means a product labeled to clean a variety of hard surfaces,
              including, but not limited to, products designed or labeled for general floor cleaning,
              kitchen, countertop, or sink cleaning, and cleaners designed or labeled to be used on a
              variety of hard surfaces such as stovetops, cooktops, or microwaves.

              VI.VVV.1.       On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, general purpose cleaner
                     means a product that is designed or labeled to clean hard surfaces in homes,
                     garages, patios, commercial, or institutional environments. General purpose
                     cleaner includes products that clean kitchens, sinks, appliances, counters, walls,
                     cabinets, or floors and products that claim to clean a variety of similar surfaces
                     such as plastics, stone, or metal. General purpose cleaner does not include
                     single purpose cleaner or furniture maintenance product.

      VI.WWW.        “General purpose degreaser” means any product labeled to remove or dissolve
            grease, grime, oil and other oil-based contaminants from a variety of substrates, including
            automotive or miscellaneous metallic parts. General purpose degreaser does not include
            engine degreaser, general purpose cleaner, adhesive remover, electronic cleaner,
            electrical cleaner, energized electrical cleaner, metal polish or cleanser, oven or grill
            cleaner, or products used exclusively in solvent cleaning tanks or related equipment
            (including, but not limited to, cold cleaners, vapor degreasers, conveyorized degreasers,
            film cleaning machines, products designed to clean miscellaneous metallic parts by
            immersion in a container) or products that are exclusively sold directly or through
            distributors to establishments which manufacture or construct goods or commodities and
            labeled exclusively for “use in the manufacturing process only.”

              VI.WWW.1.      On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, in addition to the above,
                    general purpose degreaser does not include single purpose degreaser.

      VI.XXX. “General-use hand or body cleaner or soap” means a cleaner or soap designed to be
              used routinely on the skin to clean or remove typical or common dirt and soils and
              includes, but is not limited to, hand or body washes, dual-purpose shampoo-body
              cleaners, shower or bath gels, and moisturizing cleaners or soaps. General-use hand or
              body cleaner or soap does not include prescription drug products, antimicrobial hand or
              body cleaner or soap, astringent/toner, facial cleaner or soap, hand dishwashing
              detergent (including antimicrobial), heavy-duty hand cleaner or soap, medicated
              astringent/medicated toner, or rubbing alcohol.

      VI.YYY. “Glass cleaner” means a cleaning product designed primarily for cleaning surfaces made
              of glass. Glass cleaner does not include products designed solely for the purpose of
              cleaning optical materials used in eyeglasses, photographic equipment, scientific
              equipment, and photocopying machines.

              VI.YYY.1.       On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, glass cleaner means a
                     product complying with the above as well as “or labeled.”

      VI.ZZZ. “Graffiti remover” means a product labeled to remove spray paint, ink, marker, crayon,
              lipstick, nail polish, or shoe polish from a variety of non-cloth or nonfabric substrates and
              products labeled for dual use as both a paint stripper and graffiti remover. Graffiti
              remover does not include paint remover or stripper, nail polish remover, or spot remover.




                                                                                                         28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.AAAA.       “Gum or candle wax remover” means a product designed or labeled exclusively
             to remove chewing gum and/or candle wax from soft surfaces such as carpet, rugs,
             upholster, or fabric.

      VI.BBBB.      “Hair mousse” means a hairstyling foam designed to facilitate styling of a coiffure
             and provide limited holding power.

      VI.CCCC.      “Hair finishing spray” means a product designed or labeled for application to
            styled hair to provide sufficient rigidity, to hold, retain, or finish the style of the hair for a
            period of time. Hair finishing spray includes aerosol hair sprays, pump hair sprays, spray
            waxes; color, glitter, or sparkle hair sprays that make finishing claims; and products that
            are both a styling and finishing product. Hair finishing spray does not include spray
            products that are intended to air in styling but do not provide finishing of a hair style.
            Finish or finishing means the maintaining and/or holding of previously styled hair for a
            period of time. Styling means the forming, sculpting, or manipulating the hair to
            temporarily alter the hair’s shape.

      VI.DDDD.      “Hair shine” means any product designed for the primary purpose of creating a
            shine when applied to the hair and includes, but is not limited to, dual-use products
            designed primarily to impart a sheen to the hair. Hair shine does not include hair spray,
            hair mousse, hair styling product, hair styling gel, or products whose primary purpose is
            to condition or hold the hair.

              VI.DDDD.1.      On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, hair shine does not include
                    hair finishing spray.

      VI.EEEE.        “Hair spray” means a consumer product that is applied to styled hair and is
             designed or labeled to provide sufficient rigidity, to hold, retain, and/or finish the style of
             the hair for a period of time. Hair spray includes aerosol hair sprays, pump hair sprays,
             spray waxes; color, glitter, or sparkle hairsprays that make finishing claims; and products
             that are both a styling (i.e., forming, sculpting, or manipulating the hair for a period of
             time) and finishing (i.e., maintain and/or hold the styled hair for a period of time) product.
             Hair spray does not include spray products that are intended to aid in styling but do not
             provide finishing of a hairstyle.

              VI.EEEE.1.      On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, the term hair finishing spray
                     and associated definition will replace hair spray.

      VI.FFFF.        “Hair styling product” means a consumer product designed or labeled for the
             application to wet, damp, or dry hair to aid in defining, shaping, lifting, styling, and/or
             sculpting of the hair. Hair styling product includes, but is not limited, to hair balm, clay,
             cream, crème, curl straightener, gel, liquid, lotion, paste, pomade, putty, root lifter, serum,
             spray gel, stick, temporary hair straightener, wax, spray products that aid in styling but do
             not provide finishing of a hairstyle, and leave-in volumizers, detanglers, and/or
             conditioners that make styling claims. Hair styling product does not include hair mousse,
             hair shine, hair spray, or shampoos and/or conditioners that are rinsed from the hair prior
             to styling.




                                                                                                            29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.FFFF.1.       On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, in addition to the above, hair
                     styling product also does not include no rinse shampoo, thermal protectant, and
                     hair finishing spray.

      VI.GGGG.       “Heavy-duty hand cleaner or soap” means a product designed to clean or
            remove difficult dirt and soils such as oil, grease, grime, tar, shellac, putty, printer’s ink,
            paint, graphite, cement, carbon, asphalt, or adhesives from the hand with or without the
            use of water. Heavy-duty hand cleaner or soap does not include prescription drug
            products, antimicrobial hand or body cleaner or soap, astringent/toner, facial cleaner or
            soap, general-use hand or body cleaner or soap, medicated astringent/medicated toner,
            or rubbing alcohol.

      VI.HHHH.      “Herbicide” means a pesticide product designed to kill or retard a plant’s growth,
            but excludes products that are for agricultural use or restricted materials that require a
            permit for use and possession.

      VI.IIII. “High-temperature coating” means a high performance coating labeled and formulated for
               application to substrates exposed continuously or intermittently to temperatures above
               204 degrees C (400 degrees F).

      VI.JJJJ. “High volatility organic compound (HVOC)” means any volatile organic compound that
               exerts a vapor pressure greater than 80 mm Hg when measured at 20 degrees C.

      VI.KKKK.       “Household product” means any consumer product that is primarily designed to
             be used inside or outside of living quarters or residences that are occupied or intended
             for occupation by individuals, including the immediate surroundings.

      VI.LLLL.         “Industrial maintenance coating” means a high performance architectural coating,
              including primers, sealers, undercoaters, intermediate coats, and topcoats, formulated for
              application to substrates, including floors, and exposed to one or more of the following
              extreme environmental conditions: immersion in water, wastewater, or chemical solutions
              (aqueous and non-aqueous solutions), or chronic exposures of interior surfaces to
              moisture condensation; acute or chronic exposure to corrosive, caustic, or acidic agents,
              or to chemicals, chemical fumes, or chemical mixtures or solutions; frequent exposure to
              temperatures above 121°C (250°F); frequent heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear
              and scrubbing with industrial solvents, cleansers, or scouring agents; or exterior
              exposure of metal structures and structural components. Industrial maintenance coatings
              must be labeled as specified in Part B, Section III.D.1.

      VI.MMMM.      “Insect repellent” means a pesticide product that is designed to be applied on
            human skin, hair, or attire worn on humans in order to prevent contact with or repel biting
            insects or arthropods.

      VI.NNNN.       “Insecticide” means a pesticide product that is designed for use against insects
            or other arthropods. Insecticide does not include products that are for agricultural use, for
            a use which requires a structural pest control license, or restricted materials that require a
            permit for use and possession.

      VI.OOOO.      “Insecticide fogger” means any insecticide product designed to release all or
            most of its content as a fog or mist into indoor areas during a single application.




                                                                                                          30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.PPPP.        “Institutional product” or “industrial and institutional (I&I) product” means a
             consumer product that is designed for use in the maintenance or operation of an
             establishment (e.g., government agencies, factories, schools, hospitals, restaurants,
             hotels, stores) that manufactures, transports, or sells goods or commodities or provides
             services for profit or is engaged in the nonprofit promotion of a particular public,
             educational, or charitable cause. Institutional product does not include household
             products and products that are incorporated into or used exclusively in the manufacture
             or construction of the goods or commodities at the site of the establishment.

      VI.QQQQ.       “Label” means any written, printed, or graphic matter affixed to, applied to,
            attached to, blown into, formed, molded into, embossed on, or appearing upon any
            consumer product or consumer product package, for purposes of branding, identifying, or
            giving information with respect to the product or to the contents of the package.

      VI.RRRR.        “Laundry prewash” means a product that is designed for application to a fabric
            prior to laundering in a wet-cleaning process and that supplements and contributes to the
            effectiveness of laundry detergents and/or provides specialized performance.

      VI.SSSS.        “Laundry starch/sizing/fabric finish product” means a product that is labeled for
             application to a fabric, either during or after laundering, to impart and prolong a crisp,
             fresh look and may also act to help ease ironing of the fabric.

      VI.TTTT.       “Lawn or garden insecticide” means an insecticide product labeled primarily to be
             used in household lawn and garden areas to protect plants from insects or other
             arthropods. Lawn and garden insecticides may claim to kill insects or other arthropods.

      VI.UUUU.       “Liquid” means a substance or mixture of substances which is capable of a
            visually detectable flow as determined under ASTM D-4359-90(2000)e1 (2012) but does
            not include powders or other materials that are composed entirely of solid particles.

      VI.VVVV.       “Lubricant” means a product designed to reduce friction, heat, noise, or wear
             between moving parts, or to loosen rusted or immovable parts or mechanisms. Lubricant
             does not include automotive power steering fluids; products for use inside power
             generating motors, engines, and turbines, and their associated power-transfer
             gearboxes; two cycle oils or other products designed to be added to fuels; products for
             use on the human body or animals or products that are exclusively sold directly or
             through distributors to establishments which manufacture or construct goods or
             commodities and labeled exclusively for “use in the manufacturing process only.”

              VI.VVVV.1.      On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, in addition to the above,
                     lubricant includes products labeled for use in food-servicing environments that
                     include, but are not limited to, restaurants and food stores. Lubricant includes the
                     following subcategories

                      VI. VVVV.1.a. “Anti-seize lubricant” means any lubricant designed or labeled
                             exclusively for use in high temperature or high pressure conditions to
                             prevent moving metal parts from seizing or galling, and/or to facility
                             disassembly of metal parts. A firearm lubricant is not an anti-seize
                             lubricant.

                      VI. VVVV.1.b. “Cutting or tapping oil” means any lubricant designed or labeled
                             exclusively for drilling, cutting, or tapping metals.




                                                                                                          31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


                     VI. VVVV.1.c. “Dry lubricant” means any lubricant which provides lubricity
                            solely by depositing a thin film of solid material including, but not limited
                            to, graphite, molybdenum disulfide (moly), polytetrafluoroethylene or
                            closely related fluoropolymer (Teflon), or boron nitride on surfaces. A dry
                            lubricant is not subject to the requirements for anti-seize lubricant, cutting
                            or tapping oil, gear, chain, or wire lubricant, multi-purpose lubricant,
                            penetrant, rust preventative or rust control lubricant, or silicone-based
                            multi-purpose lubricant.

                     VI. VVVV.1.d. “Firearm lubricant” means any lubricant designed or labeled
                            exclusively for use on firearms or their parts to lubricate or to provide
                            corrosion or rust prevention.

                     VI.VVVV.1.e. Gear, chain, or wire lubricant means any lubricant designed or
                            labeled exclusively for use on gears, chains, or wire ropes. Gear, chain,
                            or wire lubricant does not include lubricant products labeled solely for
                            use on chains of chain-driven vehicles.

                     VI. VVVV.1.f. “Multi-purpose lubricant” means any lubricant designed or
                            labeled for general purpose lubrication, or a lubricant labeled for use in a
                            wide variety of applications. Products that meet the definition of anti-
                            seize lubricant, cutting or tapping oil, dry lubricant, firearm lubricant,
                            gear, chain, or wire lubricant, penetrant, rust preventative or rust control
                            lubricant, silicone-based multi-purpose lubricant, or other lubricant
                            products labeled solely for a single purpose are not multi-purpose
                            lubricants.

                     VI. VVVV.1.g. “Penetrant” means a lubricant designed or labeled primarily to
                            loosen metal parts that have bonded together due to rusting, oxidation,
                            or other causes. Lubricants that claim to have penetrating qualities but
                            are not labeled primarily to loosen bonded parts are not penetrant
                            products.

                     VI. VVVV.1.h. “Rust preventative or rust control lubricant” means any lubricant
                            designed or labeled primarily for the prevention or control of rust. A
                            firearm lubricant is not a rust preventative or rust control lubricant.

                     VI. VVVV.1.i. “Silicone-based multi-purpose lubricant” means any lubricant
                            which is designed or labeled for general lubrication or for use in a wide
                            variety of applications, in which lubricity if primarily provided through the
                            use of silicone compounds including, but not limited to,
                            polydimethylsiloxane. Silicone-based multi-purpose lubricant does not
                            include silicone-based lubricant products labeled solely for a single
                            purpose.

      VI.WWWW.      “LVP content” means the total weight, in pounds, of LVP compounds in an ACP
            product multiplied by 100 and divided by the product's total net weight (in pounds,
            excluding container and packaging), expressed to the nearest 0.1.




                                                                                                        32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.XXXX.        “LVP-VOC” means a chemical compound or mixture that contains at least one
             carbon atom and meets one of the following: has a vapor pressure less than 0.1 mm Hg
             at 20 degrees C, as determined by CARB Method 310 (December 31, 2018); is a
             chemical compound with more than 12 carbon atoms, or a chemical mixture comprised
             solely of compounds with more than 12 carbon atoms as verified by formulation data, and
             the vapor pressure and boiling point are unknown; is a chemical compound with a boiling
             point greater than 216 degrees C, as determined by CARB Method 310 (December 31,
             2018); or is the weight percent of a chemical mixture that boils above 216 degrees C, as
             determined by CARB Method 310 (December 31, 2018). Chemical compound means a
             molecule of definite chemical formula and isomeric structure. Chemical mixture means a
             substrate comprised of two or more chemical compounds.

      VI.YYYY.        “Manufacturer,” for consumer product, means any person who imports,
             manufactures, assembles, produces, packages, repackages, or relabels a consumer
             product.

      VI.ZZZZ.        “Medicated astringent/medicated toner” means any product regulated as a drug
             by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration which is applied to the skin for the purpose of
             cleaning or tightening pores and includes, but is not limited to, clarifiers and substrate-
             impregnated products. Medicated astringent/medicated toner does not include hand,
             face, or body cleaner or soap products; cold cream; lotion; antiperspirants; or products
             that must be purchased with a doctor’s prescription.

      VI.AAAAA.    “Medium volatility organic compound (MVOC)” means any volatile organic
             compound that exerts a vapor pressure greater than 2 mm Hg and less than or equal to
             80 mm Hg when measured at 20 degrees C.

      VI.BBBBB.       “Metal polish/cleanser” means any product designed primarily to improve the
             appearance (e.g., remove or reduce stains, impurities, or oxidation from surfaces or to
             make surfaces smooth and shiny) of finished metal, metallic, or metallized surfaces by
             physical or chemical action and includes, but is not limited to, metal polishes used on
             brass, silver, chrome, copper, stainless steel, and other ornamental metals. Metal
             polish/cleanser does not include automotive wax, polish, sealant or glaze; wheel cleaner;
             paint remover or stripper; or products designed and labeled exclusively for automotive
             and marine detailing or products designed for use in degreasing tanks.

              VI.BBBBB.1.     On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, glass cleaner means a
                     product complying with the above as well as “or labeled” and also does not
                     include general purpose cleaner.

      VI.CCCCC.     “Mist spray adhesive” means any aerosol adhesive which is not a special
            purpose spray adhesive and which delivers a particle or mist spray, resulting in the
            formation of fine, discrete particles that yield a generally uniform and smooth application
            of adhesive to the substrate.

      VI.DDDDD.      “Motor vehicle wash” means a product designed or labeled to wash, wash and
            wax, wash and shine, or wash and/or clean the exterior surface of motor vehicles. Motor
            vehicle wash includes, but is not limited to, products for use in commercial, fleet, hand,
            and “drive through” car washes; commercial truck washing or large vehicle washing
            stations; vehicle dealers and repair shops as well as products intended for household
            consumer use. Motor vehicle wash does not include bug and tar remover, glass cleaner,
            tire or wheel cleaner, and products labeled for use exclusively on locomotives or aircraft.




                                                                                                       33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.EEEEE.       “Multi-purpose dry lubricant” means any lubricant which is designed and labeled
             to provide lubricity by depositing a thin film of graphite, molybdenum disulfide (moly), or
             polytetrafluoroethylene or closely related fluoropolymer (Teflon) on surfaces and is
             designed for general purpose lubrication or for use in a wide variety of applications.

              VI.EEEEE.1.     On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, this definition is under the
                     lubricant category and retitled as dry lubricant.

      VI.DDDDD.      “Multi-purpose lubricant” means any lubricant designed for general purpose
            lubrication, or for use in a wide variety of applications. Multi-purpose lubricant does not
            include multi-purpose dry lubricants, penetrants, or silicone-based multi-purpose
            lubricants.

              VI.DDDDD.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, this definition is under the
                    lubricant category.

      VI.EEEEE.       “Multi-purpose solvent” means any liquid product designed or labeled to be used
             for dispersing, dissolving, or removing contaminants or other organic materials. Multi-
             purpose solvent includes products that do not display specific use instructions on the
             product container or packaging; products that do not specify an end-use function or
             application on the product container or packaging; solvents used in institutional facilities,
             except for laboratory reagents used in analytical, educational, research, scientific or other
             laboratories; paint clean-up products (i.e., liquid product labeled for cleaning oil-based or
             water-based paint, lacquer, varnish, related coatings from, but not limited to, painting
             equipment or tools, plastics, or metals); and products labeled to prepare surfaces for
             painting. Multi-purpose solvent does not include solvents used in cold cleaners, vapor
             degreasers, conveyorized degreasers or film cleaning machines; solvents labeled
             exclusively for the clean-up of application equipment used for polyaspartic and polyurea
             coatings; solvents that are incorporated into, or used exclusively in the manufacture or
             construction of, the goods or commodities at the site of the establishment; products that
             are labeled exclusively to clean a specific contaminant, on a single substrate, in specific
             situations; or any product making any representation that the product may be used as or
             is suitable for use as a consumer product which qualifies under another definition.




                                                                                                          34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.EEEEE.1.      On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, multi-purpose solvent
                     means any liquid product designed or labeled to be used for dispersing,
                     dissolving, or removing contaminants or other organic materials. Multi-purpose
                     solvent includes products that do not display specific use instructions on the
                     product container or packaging; products that do not specify an end-use function
                     or application on the product container or packaging; solvents used in
                     institutional facilities; products labeled as “paint clean-up,” or products designed
                     or labeled for cleaning oil-based or water-based paint, lacquer, or related
                     coatings from painting equipment or tools, plastics, or metals; products labeled to
                     prepare surface for painting; and products that display in the principle display
                     panel a specific chemical name (e.g., mineral spirits, ketone, turpentine, toluene,
                     xylene(s), acetone, naptha, or metals). Multi-purpose solvent does not include
                     solvents used in cold cleaners, vapor degreasers, conveyorized degreasers or
                     film cleaning machines; solvents labeled exclusively for the clean-up of
                     application equipment used for polyaspartic and polyurea coatings; products that
                     are labeled exclusively to clean a specific contaminant, on a single substrate;
                     rubbing alcohol; laboratory reagents used in analytical, educational, research,
                     scientific, or other laboratories; and products that are used exclusively for the
                     thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high
                     temperature coatings where the responsible party also manufactures for sale in
                     Colorado industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high temperature
                     coatings and the label states the specific product or brand of the industrial
                     coating, zinc-rich primer, or high temperature coating for which the product is
                     used.

      VI.FFFFF.      “Nail polish” means any clear or colored coating designed for application to the
             fingernails or toenails and including, but not limited to, lacquers, enamels, acrylics, base
             coats and top coats.

      VI.GGGGG.     “Nail polish remover” means a product designed to remove nail polish and
            coatings from fingernails or toenails.

      VI.HHHHH.      “No rinse shampoo” means a product designed or labeled solely to be applied to
            hair that is dry to clean, absorb oil, or eliminate odor, and is subsequently removed from
            the hair by combing, brushing, or toweling the hair.

      VI.IIIII. “Non-aerosol product” means any consumer product that is not dispensed by an aerosol
                product.

      VI.JJJJJ.       “Non-carbon containing compound” means any compound which does not
              contain any carbon atoms.

      VI.KKKKK.      “Non-resilient flooring” means flooring of a mineral content which is not flexible
             and includes terrazzo, marble, slate, granite, brick, stone, ceramic tile, and concrete.

              VI.KKKKK.1.     On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, this definition is under the
                     floor polish or wax product category.

      VI.LLLLL.       “Non-selective terrestrial herbicide” means a terrestrial herbicide product that is
             toxic to plants without regard to species.




                                                                                                          35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.MMMMM.      “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does not lie south
            of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s eastern boundary
            and Logan County’s western boundary intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1
            seconds north latitude, proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
            latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s
            eastern boundary.

      VI.NNNNN.     “Odor remover/eliminator” means a product that is designed or labeled to be
            applied exclusively to hard surfaces to inhibit the ability of soils to create maladors, or
            functions to entrap, encapsulate, neutralize, convert or eliminate malodor molecules.
            Odor remover/eliminator does not include products designed or labeled for use in
            cleaning soils from hard surfaces, laundering, softening, de-wrinkling or cleaning fabrics,
            or dishwashing, or products that are defined as air freshener, bathroom and tile cleaner,
            carpet/upholstery cleaner, fabric refresher, general purpose cleaner, toilet/urinal care
            product, disinfectant, or sanitizer.

      VI.OOOOO.       “Oven or grill cleaner” means a product labeled exclusively to remove baked on
            greases and/or deposits from food preparation and/or food cooking surfaces. A product
            that is labeled as an oven or grill cleaner that makes claims that it is suitable for
            degreasing other hard surfaces is a general purpose degreaser. A product that is labeled
            as an oven or grill cleaner that makes claims that it is suitable for cleaning other hard
            surfaces is a general purpose cleaner.

      VI.PPPPP.       “Paint” means any pigmented liquid, liquefiable, or mastic composition designed
             for application to a substrate in a thin layer which is converted to an opaque solid film
             after application and is used for protection, decoration, or identification or to serve some
             functional purpose such as the filling or concealing of surface irregularities or the
             modification of light and heat radiation characteristics.

      VI.QQQQQ.      “Paint remover or stripper” means any product designed to strip or remove paints
            or other related coatings, by chemical action, from a substrate without markedly affecting
            the substrate. Paint remover or stripper does not include multi-purpose solvents, paint
            brush cleaners, products designed and labeled exclusively as graffiti removers, and hand
            cleaner products that claim to remove paints and other related coatings from skin.

      VI.RRRRR.      “Paint thinner” means any liquid product that prominently displays the term paint
            thinner, lacquer thinner, thinner, or reducer and used for reducing the viscosity of coating
            compositions or components. Paint thinner does not include artist’s solvent/thinner;
            products that are sold in containers with a capacity of five (5) gallons or more and are
            labeled exclusively for the thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers,
            or high temperature coatings; and products labeled and used exclusively as an ingredient
            in a specific coating or coating brand line, whereby the coating would not be complete or
            useable without the specific ingredient. Paint thinner does not include a product with a
            principle display panel displaying language, in a font as large as or larger than the font
            size of the other words on the panel (not including the font size used for the company
            name, brand name, or logo), that the product is used exclusively for the thinning of
            industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high temperature coatings and that
            makes no representation that the product is suitable for use or may be used for any other
            purpose except the thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high
            temperature coatings.




                                                                                                        36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.RRRRR.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, paint thinner means any
                    product designed or labeled to reduce the viscosity of coating compositions or
                    components, or a product that prominently displays terms such as paint thinner,
                    lacquer thinner, thinner, or reducer on the label. Paint thinner includes aerosol
                    products that provide a seamless transition between finishes. Paint thinner does
                    not include artist’s solvent/thinner; rubbing alcohol; products that are sold in
                    containers with a capacity of five (5) gallons or more and are labeled exclusively
                    for the thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high
                    temperature coatings where the responsible party also manufactures for sale in
                    Colorado industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high temperature
                    coatings and the label states the specific product or band of the industrial
                    maintenance coating, zinc-rich primer, or high temperature coating for which the
                    thinning product is to be used; and products labeled and used exclusively as an
                    ingredient in a specific coating or coating brand line, whereby the coating would
                    not be complete or useable without the specific ingredient. Paint thinner does not
                    include a product with a principle display panel displaying language, in a font as
                    large as or larger than the font size of the other words on the panel (not including
                    the font size used for the company name, brand name, or logo), that the product
                    is used exclusively for the thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich
                    primers, or high temperature coatings and that makes no representation that the
                    product is suitable for use or may be used for any other purpose except the
                    thinning of industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high
                    temperature coatings where the responsible party also manufactures for sale in
                    Colorado industrial maintenance coatings, zinc-rich primers, or high temperature
                    coatings and the label states the specific product or band of the industrial
                    maintenance coating, zinc-rich primer, or high temperature coating for which the
                    thinning product is to be used.

      VI.SSSSS.       “Penetrant” means a lubricant designed and labeled primarily to loosen metal
             parts that have bonded together due to rusting, oxidation, or other causes. Penetrant
             does not include multi-purpose lubricants that claim to have penetrating qualities but are
             not labeled primarily to loosen bonded parts.

              VI.SSSSS.1.     On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, this definition is under the
                     lubricant category.

      VI.TTTTT.       “Personal fragrance product” means any product which is applied to the human
             body or clothing for the primary purpose of adding a scent or masking a malodor,
             including cologne, perfume, aftershave, and toilet water. Personal fragrance product does
             not include deodorant; medicated products designed primarily to alleviate fungal or
             bacterial growth on feet or other areas of the body; mouthwashes, breath fresheners and
             deodorizers; lotions, moisturizers, powders, or other skin care products used primarily to
             alleviate skin conditions such as dryness and irritations; products designed exclusively for
             use on human genitalia; soaps, shampoos, and products primarily used to clean the
             human body; and fragrance products designed to be used exclusively on non-human
             animals.




                                                                                                      37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.UUUUU.     “Pesticide” means and includes any substance or mixture of substances labeled,
            designed, or intended for use in preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating any pest,
            or any substance or mixture of substances labeled, designed, or intended for use as a
            defoliant, desiccant, or plant regulator, provided that the term “pesticide” will not include
            any substance, mixture of substances, or device which the United States Environmental
            Protection Agency does not consider to be a pesticide.

      VI.VVVVV.      “Pressurized gas duster” means a pressurized product labeled to remove dust
             from a surface solely by means of mass air or gas flow, including surfaces such as
             photographs, photographic film negatives, computer keyboards, and other types of
             surfaces that cannot be cleaned with solvents. Pressurized gas duster does not include
             dusting aid.

              VI.VVVVV.1.     On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, in addition to the above,
                     pressurized gas duster also does not include general purpose cleaner; electrical
                     cleaner; energized electrical cleaner; anti-static product; and products with a
                     principal display panel clearly displaying the statement “energized equipment use
                     only” and labeled exclusively to remove dust from equipment where dust removal
                     is accomplished when electrical current exists, residual electrical potential from a
                     component such as a capacitor exists, or an open flame exists.

      VI.WWWWW. “Principal display panel or panels” means that part, or those parts of a label that
            are so designed as to most likely be displayed, presented, shown or examined under
            normal and customary conditions of display or purchase. Whenever a principal display
            panel appears more than once, all requirements pertaining to the principal display panel
            shall pertain to all such principal display panels.

      VI.XXXXX.       “Product brand name” means the name of the product exactly as it appears on
             the principal display panel of the product.

      VI.YYYYY.      “Product category” means the applicable category which best describes the
             product as listed in the definitions and Table 1.

      VI.ZZZZZ.      “Product form” means the applicable form that most accurately describes the
             product’s dispensing form:

              A = aerosol product

              S = solid

              P = pump spray

              L = liquid

              SS = semi-solid

              O = other

      VI.AAAAAA.      “Product line” means a group of products of identical form and function belonging
             to the same product category(ies).




                                                                                                       38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.BBBBBB.     “Propellant” means a liquefied or compressed gas that is used in whole or in part,
             such as a cosolvent, to expel a liquid or any other material from the same self-
             pressurized container or from a separate container.

      VI.CCCCCC. “Pump spray” means a packaging system in which the product ingredients within
            the container are not under pressure and in which the product is expelled only while a
            pumping action is applied to a button, trigger, or other actuator.

      VI.DDDDDD. “Responsible party” means the company, firm, or establishment which is listed on
            the product's label. If the label lists two companies, firms, or establishments, the
            responsible party is the party which the product was “manufactured for” or “distributed
            by,” as noted on the label.

      VI.EEEEEE.      “Retailer” means any person who sells, supplies, or offers consumer products for
             sale directly to consumers.

      VI.FFFFFF.     “Retail outlet” means any establishment at which consumer products are sold,
             supplied, or offered for sale directly to consumers.

      VI.GGGGGG. “Roll-on product” means any antiperspirant or deodorant that dispenses active
            ingredients by rolling a wetted ball or wetted cylinder on the affected area.

      VI.HHHHHH. “Rubber/vinyl protectant” means any product labeled to protect, preserve or
            renew vinyl, or rubber on vehicles, tires, luggage, furniture, and/or household products
            such as vinyl covers, clothing, or accessories. Rubber/vinyl protectant does not include
            products labeled to clean the wheel rim, such as aluminum or magnesium wheel
            cleaners; tire cleaners that do not leave an appearance-enhancing or protective
            substance on the tire; pigmented products designed or labeled to be used primarily for
            coloring; products used for construction, reconstruction, modification, or structural
            maintenance or repair of rubber or vinyl substrates; or products, other than those labeled
            to be used on vehicle tires, qualifying as either clear coating or
            vinyl/fabric/leather/polycarbonate coating.

      VI.IIIIII. “Rubbing alcohol” means any product containing isopropyl alcohol (also called
                 isopropanol) or denatured ethanol and labeled for topical use, usually to decrease germs
                 in minor cuts and scrapes, to relieve minor muscle aches, as a rubefacient, and for
                 massage.

      VI.JJJJJJ.       “Sanitizer” means a product labeled as a sanitizer or a product registered as a
              sanitizer under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA, 7 U.S.C.
              136, et seq.) to reduce, but not necessary eliminate, microorganisms in the air, on
              surfaces, or on inanimate objects. Products that are labeled both sanitizer and
              disinfectant are considered disinfectants. Sanitizer does not include disinfectant; products
              labeled solely for use on humans or animals; products labeled solely for agricultural use;
              products labeled solely for use in swimming, therapeutic tubs, or hot tubs; products which
              are labeled to be used on heat sensitive critical or semi-critical medical devices or
              medical equipment surfaces; products which are pre-moistened wipes or towelettes sold
              exclusively to medical, convalescent or veterinary establishments; products which are
              labeled to be applied to food-contact surfaces and are not required to be rinsed prior to
              contact with food; or other products labeled bathroom and tile cleaners, glass cleaners,
              general purpose cleaners, toilet/urinal care products, metal polish or cleanser,
              carpet/upholstery cleaners, or fabric refreshers that may also make sanitizing or anti-
              microbial claims on the label.




                                                                                                       39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.KKKKKK.      “Sealant or caulking compound” means any product with adhesive properties that
             is designed to fill, seal, waterproof, or weatherproof gaps or joints between two surfaces.
             Sealant or caulking compound does not include pipe thread sealants or pipe joint
             compounds; roof cements and roof sealants; insulating foams; removable caulking
             compounds (i.e., provides a three to six month temporary seal); clear/paintable/water
             resistant caulking compounds (i.e., contains no appreciable level of opaque fillers or
             pigments, transmits most or all visible light when cured, and is immediately resistant to
             precipitation upon application); floor seam sealers; products designed exclusively for
             automotive uses; sealers that are applied as continuous coatings; or units of product, less
             packaging, which weigh more than one pound and consist of more than 16 fluid ounces.

              VI.KKKKKK.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, sealant or caulking
                     compound is divided into two subcategories.

                      IV. KKKKKK.1.a.         “Chemically curing sealant or caulking compound”
                             means any sealant or caulking compound that achieves its final
                             composition and physical form through a chemical curing process, where
                             product ingredients participate in a chemical reaction in the presence of
                             a catalyst that causes a change in chemical structure and leads to the
                             release of chemical byproducts. Chemically curing sealant or caulking
                             compound includes, but is not limited to, products that utilize silicone,
                             polyurethane, silyl-terminated polyether, of silyl-terminated polyurethane
                             reactive chemistries. Chemically curing sealant or caulking compound
                             does not include products that are not solely dependent on a chemically
                             curing process to achieve the cured state.

                      IV. KKKKKK.1.b.        “Non-chemically curing sealant or caulking compound”
                             means any sealant or caulking compound not defined under chemically
                             curing sealant or caulking compound.

      VI.LLLLLL.     “Semi-solid” means a product that, at room temperature, will not pour, but will
             spread or deform easily, including but not limited to gels, pastes, and greases.

      VI.MMMMMM. “Shaving cream” means an aerosol product which dispenses a foam lather
            intended to be used with a blade, cartridge razor, or other wet-shaving system in the
            removal of facial or other bodily hair. Shaving cream does not include shaving gel.

      VI.NNNNNN. “Shaving gel” means an aerosol product which dispenses a post-foaming
            semisolid designed to be used with a blade, cartridge razor, or other shaving system in
            the removal of facial or other bodily hair. Shaving gel does not include shaving cream.

      VI.OOOOOO. “Silicone-based multi-purpose lubricant” means any lubricant that is designed
            and labeled to provide lubricity primarily through the use of silicone compounds including,
            but not limited to, polydimethylsiloxane and is designed and labeled for general purpose
            lubrication or for use in a wide variety of applications. Silicone-based multi-purpose
            lubricant does not include products designed and labeled exclusively to release
            manufactured products from molds.

              VI.OOOOOO.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, this definition is under the
                    lubricant category.




                                                                                                       40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.PPPPPP.      “Single phase aerosol air freshener” means an aerosol air freshener with the
             liquid contents in a single homogeneous phase and which does not require that the
             product container be shaken before use.

      VI.QQQQQQ. “Single purpose cleaner” means a cleaning product that is designed and labeled
            exclusively to clean one specific object or its parts that is not subject to any other
            regulated category, except that a cleaning product that claims to clean a single appliance,
            counter, wall, cabinet, or floor is a general purpose cleaner.

      VI.RRRRRR. “Single purpose degreaser” means a product that is designed and labeled
            exclusively to degrease one specific object or its parts that is not subject to any other
            regulated category. Single purpose degreaser does not include adhesive remover,
            electrical cleaner, electronic cleaner, energized electrical cleaner, engine degreaser,
            general purpose cleaner, metal polish or cleanser, or oven or grill cleaner. Single purpose
            degreaser does not include products used exclusively in “solvent cleaning tanks or
            related equipment,” (e.g., cold cleaners, vapor degreasers, conveyorized degreasers, film
            cleaning machines, products designed to clean miscellaneous metallic parts by
            immersion in a container) or products that are exclusively sold directly or through
            distributors to establishments which manufacture or construct goods or commodities and
            labeled exclusively for “use in the manufacturing process only.”

      VI.SSSSSS.     “Solid” means a substance or mixture of substances which, either whole or
             subdivided (such as the particles comprising a powder), is not capable of visually
             detectable flow as determined under ASTM D-4359-90(2000)e1 (2012).

      VI.TTTTTT.      “Special purpose spray adhesive” means an aerosol adhesive that meets any of
             the following definitions:

              VI.TTTTTT.1. Mounting adhesive: designed to permanently mount photographs,
                     artwork, and any other drawn or printed media to a backing (e.g., paper, board,
                     cloth) without causing discoloration to the artwork.

              VI.TTTTTT.2. Flexible vinyl adhesive: designed to bond flexible vinyl to substrates.
                     Flexible vinyl means a nonrigid polyvinyl chloride plastic with at least five percent,
                     by weight, of plasticizer content. A plasticizer is a material, such as a high boiling
                     point organic solvent, that is incorporated into a plastic to increase its flexibility,
                     workability, or distensibility, and may be determined using ASTM Method E260-
                     91 (2011) or from product formulation data.

              VI.TTTTTT.3. Polystyrene foam adhesive: designed to bond polystyrene foam to
                     substrates.

              VI.TTTTTT.4. Automobile headliner adhesive: designed to bond together layers in
                     motor vehicle headliners.

              VI.TTTTTT.5.     Polyolefin adhesive: designed to bond polyolefins to substrates.

              VI.TTTTTT.6. Laminate repair/edgebanding adhesive: designed for the touch-up or
                     repair (e.g., lifted edges, delaminations) of items laminated with high pressure
                     laminates (i.e., temperatures exceeding 265°F and pressures between 1,000 and
                     1,400 psi) or for the touch-up, repair, or attachment of edgebanding materials,
                     including but not limited to, other laminates, synthetic marble, veneers, wood
                     molding, and decorative metals.




                                                                                                         41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              VI.TTTTTT.7. Automotive engine compartment adhesive: designed for use in motor
                     vehicle under-the-hood applications which require oil and plasticizer resistance,
                     as well as high shear strength, at temperatures of 200 - 275°F.

              VI.TTTTTT.8. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, screen printing means an
                     aerosol adhesive designed and labeled exclusively to hold garments or fabric
                     during the screen printing process.

      VI.UUUUUU. “Spot remover” means any product labeled to clean localized areas, or remove
            localized spots or stains on cloth or fabric such as drapes, carpets, upholstery, and
            clothing that does not require subsequent laundering to achieve stain removal. Spot
            remover does not include dry cleaning fluid, laundry prewash, or multi-purpose solvent.

              VI.UUUUUU.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                    failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                    applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, spot remover means any
                    product labeled to clean localized areas, or remove localized spots or stains on
                    cloth or fabric such as drapes, carpets, upholstery, and clothing that does not
                    require subsequent laundering to achieve stain removal. Spot remover includes
                    spotting agents used by commercial dry cleaning and laundering operations.
                    Spot remover does not include laundry prewash or aerosol products labeled
                    solely for gum removal.

      VI.VVVVVV.     “Spray buff product” means a product designed to restore a worn floor finish in
             conjunction with a floor buffing machine and special pad.

      VI.XXXXXX.     “Table B compound” means any carbon-containing compound listed as an
             exception to the definition of VOC.

      VI.YYYYYY.     “Temporary hair color” means any product that applies color, glitter, or UV-active
             pigments to hair, wigs, or fur and is removable when washed. Temporary hair color
             includes hair color mousses and products labeled to add texture or thickness to cover
             thinning/balding areas. Temporary hair color does not include hair spray, hair styling
             product, or hair mousse.

      VI.ZZZZZZ.     “Thermal protectant” means a product that is designed or labeled solely to be
             applied to the hair to protect it from heat damage during the use of heated tools such as
             blow drier, flat iron, and/or curling iron.

      VI.AAAAAAA. “Thermoplastic rubber coating and mastic” means a coating or mastic formulated
             and recommended for application to roofing or other structural surfaces and that
             incorporates no less than 40 percent by weight of thermoplastic rubbers in the total resin
             solids and may also contain other ingredients including, but not limited to, fillers,
             pigments, and modifying resins.

      VI.BBBBBBB. “Tire or wheel cleaner” means a product designed or labeled exclusively to clean
             either tires, wheels, or both. Tire or wheel cleaner includes, but is not limited to, products
             for use in commercial, fleet, hand, and “drive through” car washes; commercial truck
             washing or large vehicle washing stations; vehicle dealers and repair shops, as well as
             household consumer products. Tire or wheel cleaner does not include products labeled
             for use exclusively on locomotives or aircraft.




                                                                                                         42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.CCCCCCC. “Tire sealant and inflator” means any pressurized product that is designed to
            temporarily inflate and seal a leaking tire.

      VI.DDDDDDD. “Toilet/urinal care product” means any product designed or labeled to clean
            and/or to deodorize toilet bowls, toilet tanks, or urinals connected to permanent plumbing
            in buildings and other structures, portable toilets or urinals placed at temporary or remote
            locations, and toilet or urinals in vehicles such as buses, recreational motor homes,
            boats, ships, and aircraft. Toilet/urinal care product does not include bathroom and tile
            cleaner or general purpose cleaner.

      VI.EEEEEEE. “Type A propellant” means a compressed gas such as CO2, N2, N2O, or
             compressed air which is used as a propellant and is either incorporated with the product
             or contained in a separate chamber within the product’s packaging.

      VI.FFFFFFF. “Type B propellant” means any halocarbon which is used as a propellant
             including chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and
             hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).

      VI.GGGGGGG. “Type C propellant” means any propellant which is not a Type A or Type B
            propellant, including propane, isobutane, n-butane, and dimethyl ether (also known as
            dimethyl oxide).

      VI.HHHHHHH. “Undercoating” means any aerosol product designed to impart a protective, non-
            paint layer to the undercarriage, trunk interior, and/or firewall of motor vehicles to prevent
            the formation of rust or to deaden sound and includes, but is not limited to, rubberized,
            mastic, or asphaltic products.

      VI.IIIIIII. “Usage directions” means the text or graphics on the product label or accompanying
                  literature that describes to the end user how and in what quantity the product is to be
                  used.

      VI.JJJJJJJ.     “Vinyl/fabric/leather/polycarbonate coating” means a coating designed and
              labeled exclusively to coat vinyl, fabric, leather, or polycarbonate substrates.

      VI.KKKKKKK. “Wasp or hornet insecticide” means any insecticide product that is designed for
             use against wasps, hornets, yellow jackets or bees by allowing the user to spray from a
             distance a directed stream or burst at the intended insects or their hiding place.

      VI.LLLLLLL.     “Waterproofer” means a non-aerosol product designed and labeled exclusively to
             repel water from fabric or leather substrates. Waterproofer does not include fabric
             protectants. Any aerosol product that meets the definition of an aerosol coating product
             and is designed and labeled exclusively to repel water from fabric or leather substrates is
             a vinyl/fabric/leather/polycarbonate coating.

      VI.MMMMMMM.           “Wax” means a material or synthetic thermoplastic substance generally
            of high molecular weight hydrocarbons or high molecular weight esters of fatty acids or
            alcohols, except glycerol and high polymers (plastics) and includes, but is not limited to,
            substances derived from the secretions of plants and animals such as carnuba wax and
            beeswax, substances of a mineral origin such as ozocerite and paraffin, and synthetic
            polymers such as polyethylene.

      VI.NNNNNNN. “Web spray adhesive” means any aerosol adhesive that is not a mist spray
            adhesive or special purpose spray adhesive.




                                                                                                            43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.OOOOOOO. “Wood cleaner” means a product labeled to clean wooden materials and
            includes, but is not limited to, decking, fences, flooring, logs, cabinetry, and furniture.
            Wood cleaner does not include dusting aid, general purpose cleaner, furniture
            maintenance product, floor wax stripper, floor polish or wax, or products designed and
            labeled exclusively to preserve or color wood.

      VI.PPPPPPP.     “Wood floor wax” means wax-based products for use solely on wood floors.

              VI.PPPPPPP.1. On or after 60 days after the effective date of a finding by EPA of a
                     failure by Colorado to attain by the severe ozone attainment date or meet an
                     applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, wood floor wax means wax-
                     based product designed or labeled for use solely on wood floors. Wood floor wax
                     does not include products that make the claim to “clean and wax” or “clean and
                     polish.”

      VI.QQQQQQQ. “Zinc-rich primer” means a coating that contains at least 65 percent metallic zinc
            powder or zinc dust by weight of total solids and is formulated for application to metal
            substrates to provide a firm bond between the substrate and subsequent applications of
            coatings. Zinc-rich primers must be labeled in accordance with Part B, Section III.D.10.




                                                                                                          44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



PART B        CONCERNING ARCHITECTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE COATINGS

I.    Applicability

      I.A.    This part applies to any person who supplies, sells, offers for sale, or manufacturers any
              architectural or industrial maintenance coating and any person who applies or solicits the
              application of any architectural or industrial maintenance coating in

              I.A.1.   The 8-hour Ozone Control Area.

              I.A.2.   Beginning February 14, 2023, applicability in northern Weld County is no longer
                       on a State Only basis.

              I.A.3.   (State Only) Colorado. As marked by (State Only), the requirements are not
                       federally enforceable.

      I.B.    This part does not apply to

              I.B.1.   Any architectural or industrial maintenance coating that is sold, supplied, offered
                       for sale, or manufactured for use outside Colorado or shipped to other
                       manufacturers for reformulation or repackaging.

              I.B.2.   Any aerosol coating product.

              I.B.3.   Any architectural or industrial maintenance coating that is sold in a container with
                       a volume of one liter (1.057 quart) or less, including kits containing containers of
                       different colors, types, or categories of coatings and two component products.
                       This exemption includes multiple containers or one liter or less that are packaged
                       and shipped together with no intent or requirement to ultimately sell as one unit.
                       This exemption does not include bundling of containers one liter or less that are
                       sold together as a unit or any type of marketing that implies that multiple
                       containers one liter or less be combined into one container. This exemption does
                       not include packaging from which the coating cannot be applied.

II.   Standards

      II.A.   On or after May 1, 2020, no person can manufacture or blend for sale in Colorado any
              architectural or industrial maintenance coating with a VOC content in excess of the VOC
              limit specified in Table 1.

      II.B.   No person can supply, sell, offer for sale, repackage for sale, apply, or solicit for
              application in Colorado any architectural or industrial maintenance coating that is
              manufactured or blended on or after May 1, 2020, with a VOC content in excess of the
              VOC limit specified in Table 1.

      II.C.   If an architectural or industrial maintenance coating is recommended for use for more
              than one of the coating categories listed in Table 1, then the most restrictive VOC content
              limit shall apply. This provision does not apply to the following coating categories

              II.C.1. Aluminum roof coatings.

              II.C.2. Bituminous roof primers.

              II.C.3. High temperature coatings.




                                                                                                        45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


              II.C.4. Industrial maintenance coatings.

              II.C.5. Low-solids coatings.

              II.C.6. Metallic pigmented coatings.

              II.C.7. Pretreatment wash primers.

              II.C.8. Shellacs.

              II.C.9. Specialty primers, sealers, and undercoaters.

              II.C.10. Wood coatings.

              II.C.11. Wood preservatives.

              II.C.12. Zinc-rich primers.

              II.C.13. Calcimine recoaters.

              II.C.14. Impacted immersion coatings.

              II.C.15. Nuclear coatings.

              II.C.16. Thermoplastic rubber coatings and mastic.

              II.C.17. Concrete surface retarders.

      II.D.   For any architectural or industrial maintenance coating that is not identified in Table 1, the
              VOC content limit will be determined by classifying the coating as a flat coating, nonflat
              coating, or nonflat-high gloss coating and the corresponding coating limit of Table 1
              applies.

      II.E.   No person who applies or solicits the application of any architectural or industrial
              maintenance coating can apply the coating if additional solvent has been added to thin
              the coating such that the addition causes the coating to exceed the applicable VOC limit
              specified in Table 1.

      II.F.   Containers of architectural and industrial maintenance coatings that are applied directly
              to a surface from the container by pouring, siphoning, brushing, rolling, padding, ragging,
              or other means must be closed when not in use. These containers include, but are not
              limited to, drums, buckets, cans, pails, trays, or other application containers. Containers
              of any VOC-containing materials used for thinning and cleanup must also be closed when
              not in use.




                                                                                                         46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                  Table 1 – VOC content limits for architectural and industrial maintenance coatings
                                       manufactured on or after May 1, 2020

             Coating category                                 VOC content limit (grams per liter)*

             Flat coatings                                                        50

             Nonflat coatings                                                     100

             Nonflat – high gloss coatings                                        150

             Specialty coatings

             * Aluminum roof                                                      450

             * Basement specialty coatings                                        400

             * Bituminous roof coating                                            270

             * Bituminous roof primers                                            350

             * Bond breakers                                                      350

             * Calcimine recoaters                                                475

             Concrete curing compounds                                            350

             Concrete/masonry sealer                                              100

             Concrete surface retarders                                           780

             Conjugated oil varnishes                                             450

             Conversion varnish                                                   725

             Driveway sealers                                                     50

             Dry fog coatings                                                     150

             Faux finishing coatings                                              350

             Fire-resistive coatings                                              350

             Floor coatings                                                       100

             Form-release compounds                                               250

             Graphic arts coating (sign paints)                                   500

             High temperature coatings                                            420

             Impacted immersion coatings                                          780

             Industrial maintenance coatings                                      250




                                                                                                       47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                  Table 1 – VOC content limits for architectural and industrial maintenance coatings
                                       manufactured on or after May 1, 2020

             Coating category                                 VOC content limit (grams per liter)*

             Low-solids coatings                                                  120

             Magnesite cement coatings                                            450

             Mastic texture coatings                                              100

             Metallic pigmented coatings                                          500

             Multi-color coating                                                  250

             Nuclear coatings                                                     450

             Pre-treatment wash primers                                           420

             Primers, sealers, and undercoaters                                   100

             Reactive penetrating sealer                                          350

             Reactive penetrating carbonate stone sealer                          500

             Recycled coatings                                                    250

             Roof coatings                                                        250

             Rust preventative coatings                                           250

             Shellacs

             * Clear                                                              730

             * Opaque                                                             550

             Specialty primers, sealers, and undercoaters                         100

             Stains                                                               250

             Stone consolidant                                                    450

             Swimming pool coatings                                               340

             Thermoplastic rubber coatings and mastics                            550

             Traffic marking coatings                                             100

             Tub and tile refinish                                                420

             Waterproofing membranes                                              250

             Wood coatings                                                        275




                                                                                                       48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



                     Table 1 – VOC content limits for architectural and industrial maintenance coatings
                                          manufactured on or after May 1, 2020

                Coating category                                     VOC content limit (grams per liter)*

                Wood preservatives                                                       350

                Zinc-rich primer                                                         340

                * Limits are expressed as VOC content, as determined in accordance with Section V.,
                thinned to the manufacturer’s maximum thinning recommendation, excluding any colorant
                added to tint bases.

III.   Container labeling

       III.A.   The manufacturer of any architectural or industrial maintenance coating subject to a VOC
                limit in Table 1 must clearly display on the container label, lid, or bottom such that it is
                readily observable without dissembling the container or package the date the coating was
                manufactured or a date code representing the date of manufacture. The date or date
                code must be displayed on the product such that it is readily observable without removing
                or disassembling any portion of the product container or packaging.

       III.B.   The manufacturer of any architectural or industrial maintenance coating must clearly
                display on the container label or lid a statement of the manufacturer’s recommendation
                regarding thinning of the coating. This requirement does not apply to the thinning of
                coatings with water. If thinning is not necessary prior to use, the recommendation must
                specify that the coating is to be applied without thinning.

       III.C.   The manufacturer of any architectural or industrial maintenance coating must clearly
                display on the container label, lid, or bottom the VOC content in grams per liter of coating.
                If the manufacturer recommends thinning, the container must display the VOC content
                including the maximum amount of thinning solvent recommended by the manufacturer. If
                the coating is a multi-component product, the container must display the VOC content as
                mixed or catalyzed. If the coating contains silanes, siloxanes, or other ingredient that
                generate ethanol or other VOCs during the curing process, the VOC content must include
                the VOCs emitted during curing.

       III.D.   The manufacturer must clearly display on the container label

                III.D.1. For any industrial maintenance coating, at least one of the following statements

                        III.D.1.a.       “For industrial use only”

                        III.D.1.b.       “For professional use only”

                        III.D.1.c.       “Not for residential use” or “Not intended for residential use”

                III.D.2. For any specialty primer, sealer, or undercoating, at least one of the following
                         statements

                        III.D.2.a.       “For blocking stains”

                        III.D.2.b.       “For fire-damaged substrates”




                                                                                                            49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


                      III.D.2.c.       “For smoke-damaged substrates”

                      III.D.2.d.       “For water-damaged substrates”

              III.D.3. For any clear topcoat faux finishing coating, “This product can only be sold or
                       used as part of a faux finishing coating system.”

              III.D.4. For any clear brushing lacquer, “For brush application only” and “This product
                       must not be thinned or sprayed.”

              III.D.5. For any non-flat high-gloss coating, “High gloss.”

              III.D.6. For any rust preventative coating, “For metal substrates only.”

              III.D.7. For any reactive penetrating sealer, “Reactive penetrating sealer.”

              III.D.8. For any stone consolidant, “Stone consolidant – for professional use only.”

              III.D.9. For any wood coating, “For wood substrates only.”

              III.D.10. For any zinc-rich primer, at least one of the following statements

                      III.D.10.a.      “For industrial use only”

                      III.D.10.b.      “For professional use only”

                      III.D.10.c.      “Not for residential use” or “Not intended for residential use”

IV.   Reporting

      IV.A.   Within 180 days of written notice, the Division may require a manufacturer to report any
              of the following information for any architectural or industrial maintenance coating subject
              to a VOC limit in Table 1

              IV.A.1. The name and mailing address of the manufacturer.

              IV.A.2. The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person.

              IV.A.3. The name of the coating product as it appears on the label and the application
                      coating category.

              IV.A.4. Whether the product is marketed for interior or exterior use or both.

              IV.A.5. Whether the product is marketed as solvent-borne, waterborne, or 100% solids.

              IV.A.6. Whether the coating is a single-component or multi-component product.

              IV.A.7. The description of resin or binder in the product.

              IV.A.8. The number of gallons sold in Colorado in containers greater than one liter
                      (1.057 quart) and in containers equal to or less than one liter (1.057 quart).




                                                                                                         50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                             5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


             IV.A.9. The VOC content in grams per liter as determined in accordance with Section V.
                     If thinning is recommended, the VOC content after maximum recommended
                     thinning. If containers less than one liter have a different VOC content than
                     containers greater than one liter, list separately. If the coating is a multi-
                     component product, provide the VOC Content as mixed or catalyzed.

             IV.A.10. The names and CAS numbers of the VOC constituents in the product.

             IV.A.11. The names and CAS numbers of the VOC constituents in the product that are
                      exempted from the definition of VOC.

             IV.A.12. The density of the product in pounds per gallon.

             IV.A.13. The percent by weight of solids, all volatile materials, water, and any compounds
                      in the product that are exempted from the definition of VOC.

             IV.A.14. The percent by volume of solids, water, and any compounds in the product that
                      are exempted from the definition of VOC.

             IV.A.15. Documentation explaining the date portion of the date code indicating the date of
                      manufacture.

V.    Test methods

      V.A.   Manufacturers of architectural or industrial maintenance coatings must possess
             documentation that such coating complies with the VOC content limits in Table 1.

             V.A.1. The VOC content of a coating will be determined as follows

                     V.A.1.a. For coatings that are low solids coatings

                             VOC content = (Ws – Ww – Wec)/Vm

                             Where:

                             VOC content = grams of VOC per liter of coating (must include the
                             maximum amount of thinning solvent recommended by the
                             manufacturer)

                             Ws = weight of volatiles in grams

                             Ww = weight of water in grams

                             Wec = weight of exempt compounds in grams

                             Vm = volume of coating in liters

             V.A.1.b. For coatings that are not low solids coatings

                             VOC content = (Ws – Ww – Wec)/(Vm – Vw – Vec)

                             Where:




                                                                                                     51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                             5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


                             VOC content = grams of VOC per liter of coating (must include the
                             maximum amount of thinning solvent recommended by the
                             manufacturer)

                             Ws = weight of volatiles in grams

                             Ww = weight of water in grams

                             Wec = weight of exempt compounds in grams

                             Vm = volume of coating in liters

                             Vw = volume of water in liters

                             Vec = volume of exempt compounds in liters

                                     V.A.1.b.(i)    The VOC content of multi-component products
                                             must be calculated as mixed or catalyzed.

                                     V.A.1.b.(ii)    The VOC content of coatings containing silanes,
                                             siloxanes, or other ingredients that generate ethanol or
                                             other VOCs during the curing process must include the
                                             VOCs emitting during curing.

                                     V.A.1.c. The VOC content of a tint base must be determined
                                              without colorant that is added after the tint base is
                                              manufactured.

      V.A.2. The physical properties of a coating must be determined using EPA Method 24 (40 CFR
             Part 60, Appendix A) (February 27, 2014) or SCAQMD Method 303-91 “Determination of
             Exempt Compounds” (revised 1993).

      V.A.3. The exempt compounds content of a coating must be determined using ASTM D 3960-05
             “Standard Practice for Determining Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Content of Paints
             and Related Coatings” (2018), SCAQMD Method 303-91 “Determination of Exempt
             Compounds” (revised 1993), BAAQMD Method 43 “Determination of Volatile
             Methylsiloxanes in Solvent-Based Coatings, Inks, and Related Materials” (adopted 1996)
             or BAAQMD Method 41 “Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds in Solvent-Based
             Coatings and Related Materials Containing Parachlorobenzotrifluoride” (adopted 1995).

      V.A.4. The VOC content of a coating must be determined using EPA Method 24 (40 CFR Part
             60, Appendix A) (February 27, 2014), formulation data, or any other reasonable means
             for predicting that the coating has been formulated as intended (e.g., quality assurance
             checks, recordkeeping). If there are inconsistencies between EPA Method 24 results and
             other means for determining VOC content, the Method 24 results will govern.

      V.A.5. The analysis of methacrylate multicomponent coatings used as traffic marking coatings
             will be conducted according to a modification of EPA Method 24 “Determination of
             Volatile Matter Content of Methacrylate Multicomponent Coatings Used as Traffic
             Marking Coatings” (40 CFR 59, subpart D, Appendix A) (September 11, 1998).




                                                                                                      52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


VI.   Definitions

      VI.A.   “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder
              (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and Jefferson; the Cities and
              Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the following portions of the Counties of Larimer
              and Weld:

              VI.A.1. For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), that portion
                      of the county that lies south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point
                      on Larimer County’s eastern boundary and Weld County’s western boundary
                      intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude, proceed
                      west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1
                      seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29 minutes, and 40.0 seconds west
                      longitude, thence proceed south on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west
                      longitude to the intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north
                      latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4 seconds north
                      latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s western boundary and Grand
                      County’s eastern boundary.

              VI.A.2. For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of a line described as
                      follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s eastern boundary and Logan
                      County’s western boundary intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds
                      north latitude, proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
                      latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer
                      County’s eastern boundary.

      VI.B.   “Adhesive” means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two
              surfaces together other than by mechanical means.

      VI.C.   “Aerosol coating product” means a pressurized coating product containing pigments or
              resins that dispenses product ingredients by means of a propellant, and is packaged in a
              disposable can for hand-held application, or for use in specialized equipment for ground
              traffic/marking applications.

      VI.D.   “Aluminum roof coating” means a coating labeled and formulated exclusively for
              application to roofs and containing at least 84 grams of elemental aluminum pigment per
              liter of coating (at least 0.7 pounds per gallon). Pigment content shall be determined in
              accordance with SCAQMD Method 318-95 “Determination of Weight Percent Elemental
              Metal in Coatings by X-Ray Diffraction” (July 1996).

      VI.E.   “Appurtenance” means any accessory to a stationary structure coated at the site of
              installation, whether installed or detached, including but not limited to: bathroom and
              kitchen fixtures; cabinets; concrete forms; doors; elevators; fences; hand railings; heating
              equipment, air conditioning equipment, and other fixed mechanical equipment or
              stationary tools; lampposts; partitions; pipes and piping systems; rain gutters and
              downspouts; stairways; fixed ladders; catwalks and fire escapes; and window screens.

      VI.F.   “Architectural coating” means a coating to be applied to stationary structures or their
              appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to
              pavements, or to curbs. Architectural coating does not include coatings applied in shop
              applications or to non-stationary structures such as airplanes, ships, boats, railcars, and
              automobiles, as well as adhesives.




                                                                                                            53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.G.   “Basement specialty coating” means a clear or opaque coating that is labeled and
              formulated for application to concrete and masonry surfaces to provide a hydrostatic seal
              for basements and other below-grade surfaces. Basement specialty coatings must be
              capable of withstanding at least 10 psi of hydrostatic pressure as determined in
              accordance with ASTM D7088-04 “Standard Practice for Resistance to Hydrostatic
              Pressure for Coatings Used in Below Grade Applications Applied to Masonry” (2017) and
              must be resistant to mold and mildew growth and must achieve a microbial growth rating
              of 8 or more as determined in accordance with ASTM D3273-00 “Standard Test Method
              for Resistance to Growth of Mold on the Surface of Interior Coatings in an Environmental
              Chamber” (2016) and ASTM D3274-95 “Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of
              Surface Disfigurement of Paint Films by Microbial (Fungal or Algal) Growth or Soil and
              Dirt Accumulation” (2017).

      VI.H.   “Bitumens” means black or brown materials including, but not limited to, asphalt, tar,
              pitch, and asphaltite that are soluble in carbon disulfide, consist mainly of hydrocarbons,
              and are obtained from natural deposits or as residues from the distillation of crude
              petroleum or coal.

      VI.I.   “Bituminous roof coating” means a coating which incorporates bitumens that is labeled
              and formulated exclusively for roofing for the primary purpose of preventing water
              penetration.

      VI.J.   “Bituminous roof primer” means a primer which incorporates bitumens that is labeled and
              formulated exclusively for roofing and intended for the purpose of preparing a weathered
              or aged surface or improving the adhesion of subsequent surfacing components.

      VI.K.   “Bond breaker” means a coating labeled and formulated for application between layers of
              concrete to prevent a freshly poured top layer of concrete from bonding to the layer over
              which it is poured.

      VI.L.   “Calcimine recoaters” means a flat solvent borne coating formulated and recommended
              specifically for recoating calcimine-painted ceilings and other calcimine-painted
              substrates.

      VI.M.   “Coating” means a material applied onto or impregnated into a substrate for protective,
              decorative, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints,
              varnishes, sealers, and stains.

      VI.N.   “Colorant” means a concentrated pigment dispersion in water, solvent, and/or binder that
              is added to an architectural coating after packaging in sale units to produce the desired
              color.

      VI.O.   “Concrete curing compound” means a coating labeled and formulated for application to
              freshly poured concrete to retard the evaporation of water or harden or dustproof the
              surface of freshly poured concrete.

      VI.P.   “Concrete/masonry sealer” means a clear or opaque coating that is labeled and
              formulated primarily for application to concrete and masonry surfaces to prevent
              penetration of water; provide resistance against abrasion, alkalis, acids, mildew, staining,
              or ultraviolet light; or harden or dustproof the surface of aged or cured concrete.




                                                                                                        54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.Q.   “Concrete surface retarders” means a mixture of retarding ingredients such as extender
              pigments, primary pigments, resin, and solvent that interact chemically with the cement to
              prevent hardening on the surface where the retarder is applied, allowing the retarded mix
              of cement and sand at the surface to be washed away to create an exposed aggregate
              finish.

      VI.R.   “Conjugated oil varnish” means a clear or semi-transparent wood coating, labeled as
              such, excluding lacquers or shellacs, based on a natural occurring conjugated vegetable
              oil (Tung oil) and modified with other natural or synthetic resins; a minimum of fifty
              percent of the resin solids consisting of conjugated oil. Supplied as a single component
              product, conjugated oil varnishes penetrate and seal the wood. Film formation is due to
              polymerization of the oil. These varnishes may contain small amounts of pigment to
              control the final gloss or sheen.

      VI.S.   “Conversion varnish” means a clear acid curing coating with an alkyd or other resin
              blended with amino resins and supplied as a single component or two component
              product. Conversion varnishes produce a hard, durable, clear finish designed for
              professional application to wood flooring. This film formation is the result of an acid-
              catalyzed condensation reaction, affecting transetherification at the reactive ethers of the
              amino resins.

      VI.T.   “Driveway sealer” means a coating labeled and formulated for application to worn asphalt
              driveway surfaces to fill cracks, seal the surface to provide protection, or restore or
              preserve the appearance.

      VI.U.   “Dry fog coating” means a coating labeled and formulated only for spray application such
              that overspray droplets dry before subsequent contact with incidental surfaces in the
              vicinity of the surface coating activity.

      VI.V.   “Faux finishing coating” means a coating labeled and formulated to create artistic effects
              including, but not limited to, dirt, old age, smoke damage, and simulated marble and
              wood grain; a metallic, iridescent, or pearlescent appearance that contains at least 48
              grams of pearlescent mica pigment or other iridescent pigment per liter of coating as
              applied (at least 0.4 pounds per gallon); a metallic appearance that contains greater than
              48 grams of elemental metallic pigment (determined in accordance with SCAQMD
              Method 318-95 “Determination of Weight Percent Elemental Metal in Coatings by X-Ray
              Diffraction” (July 1996)) per liter of coating as applied (0.4 pounds per gallon) and which
              requires a clear topcoat to prevent the degradation of the finish under normal use
              conditions; or a clear topcoat to seal and protect a faux finishing coating. These clear
              topcoats must be sold and used solely as part of a faux finishing coating system.

      VI.W.   “Fire-resistive coating” means a coating labeled and formulated to protect the structural
              integrity by increasing the fire endurance of interior or exterior steel and other structural
              materials and includes sprayed fire resistive materials and intumescent fire resistive
              coatings that are used to bring structural materials into compliance with federal, state,
              and local building code requirements. The fire-resistive coating must be tested in
              accordance with ASTM Designation E 119-08 “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of
              Building Construction and Materials” (2018).

      VI.X.   “Flat coating” means a coating that is not defined under any other definition in this rule
              and that registers gloss less than 15 on an 85-degree meter or less than five on a 60-
              degree meter according to ASTM D 523-89 “Standard Test Method for Specular Gloss”
              (1999).




                                                                                                              55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.Y.    “Floor coating” means an opaque coating that is labeled and designed for application to
               flooring, including, but not limited to, decks, porches, steps, and other horizontal surfaces
               which may be subject to foot traffic.

      VI.Z.    “Form-release compound” means a coating labeled and formulated for application to a
               concrete form to prevent the freshly poured concrete from bonding to the form. The form
               may consist of wood, metal, or some material other than concrete.

      VI.AA. “Graphic arts coating or sign paint” means a coating labeled and formulated for hand
             application by artists using brush, airbrush or roller techniques to indoor and outdoor
             signs (excluding structural components) and murals including letter enamels, poster
             colors, copy blockers, and bulletin enamels.

      VI.BB. “High-temperature coating” means a high performance coating labeled and formulated for
             application to substrates exposed continuously or intermittently to temperatures above
             204 degrees C (400 degrees F).

      VI.CC. “Impacted immersion coating” means a high performance maintenance coating
             formulated and recommended for application to steel structures subject to immersion in
             turbulent, debris-laden water.

      VI.DD. “Industrial maintenance coating” means a high performance architectural coating,
             including primers, sealers, undercoaters, intermediate coats, and topcoats, formulated for
             application to substrates, including floors, and exposed to one or more of the following
             extreme environmental conditions: immersion in water, wastewater, or chemical solutions
             (aqueous and non-aqueous solutions), or chronic exposures of interior surfaces to
             moisture condensation; acute or chronic exposure to corrosive, caustic, or acidic agents,
             or to chemicals, chemical fumes, or chemical mixtures or solutions; frequent exposure to
             temperatures above 121°C (250°F); frequent heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear
             and scrubbing with industrial solvents, cleansers, or scouring agents; or exterior
             exposure of metal structures and structural components. Industrial maintenance coatings
             must be labeled as specified in Part B, Section III. D.1.

      VI.EE. “Low-solids coating” means a coating containing 0.12 kilogram or less of solids per liter (1
             pound or less of solids per gallon) of coating material as recommended for application by
             the manufacturer.

      VI.FF. “Magnesite cement coating” means a coating labeled and formulated for application to
             magnesite cement decking to protect the magnesite cement substrate from erosion by
             water.

      VI.GG. “Manufacturer’s maximum thinning recommendation” means the maximum
             recommendation for thinning that is indicated on the label or lid of the coating container.

      VI.HH. “Mastic texture coating” means a coating labeled and formulated to cover holes and
             minor cracks and to conceal surface irregularities, and is applied in a single coat of at
             least 10 mils (0.010 inch) dry film thickness.

      VI.II.   “Medium density fiberboard (MDF)” means a composite wood product, panel, molding, or
               other building material composed of cellulosic fibers made by dry forming and pressing of
               resonated fiber mat.




                                                                                                          56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.JJ.   “Metallic pigmented coating” means a coating that is labeled and formulated to provide a
               metallic appearance. Metallic pigmented coatings must contain containing at least 48
               grams of elemental metallic pigment (excluding zinc) per liter of coating as applied (at
               least 0.4 pounds per gallon), when tested in accordance with SCAQMD Method 318-95
               “Determination of Weight Percent Elemental Metal in Coatings by X-Ray Diffraction” (July
               1996). The Metallic pigmented coating category does not include coatings applied to
               roofs or zinc rich primers.

      VI.KK. “Multi-color coating” means a coating that is packaged in a single container and that is
             labeled and formulated to exhibits more than one color when applied in a single coat.

      VI.LL. “Non-flat coating” means a coating that is not defined under any other definition in this
             rule and that registers a gloss of 15 or greater on an 85-degree meter and 5 or greater on
             a 60-degree meter according to ASTM Designation D 523-89 “Standard Test Method for
             Specular Gloss” (1999).

      VI.MM. “Non-flat - high gloss coating” means a non-flat coating that registers a gloss of 70 or
             greater on a 60-degree meter according to ASTM Designation D 523-89 “Standard Test
             Method for Specular Gloss” (1999).

      VI.NN. “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does not lie south of a line
             described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s eastern boundary and Logan
             County’s western boundary intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
             latitude, proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until this
             line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.

      VI.OO. “Nuclear coating” means a protective coating formulated and recommended to seal
             porous surfaces such as steel or concrete that otherwise would be subject to intrusion by
             radioactive materials. These coatings must be resistant to long term (service life)
             cumulative radiation exposure according to ASTM Method 4082-02 “Standard Test
             Method for Effects of Gamma Radiation on Coatings for Use in Light-Water Nuclear
             Power Plants” (2017), relatively easy to decontaminate, and resistant to various
             chemicals to which the coatings are likely to be exposed according to ASTM Method D
             3912-95 “Standard Test Method for Chemical Resistance of Coatings Used in Light-
             Water Nuclear Power Plants” (2001).

      VI.PP. “Particleboard” means a composite wood product panel, molding, or other building
             material composed of cellulosic material in the form of discrete particles, as distinguished
             from fibers, flakes, or strands, which are pressed together with resin.

      VI.QQ. “Pearlescent” means exhibiting various colors depending on the angles of illumination
             and viewing, as observed in mother-of-pearl.

      VI.RR. “Plywood” means a panel product consisting of layers of wood veneers or composite core
             pressed together with resin.

      VI.SS. “Post-consumer coating” means a finished coating that would have been disposed of in a
             landfill, having completed its usefulness to a consumer, and does not include
             manufacturing wastes.




                                                                                                        57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.TT. “Pre-treatment wash primer” means a primer that contains a minimum of 0.5 percent
             acid, by weight, when tested in accordance with ASTM D 1613-06 “Standard Test
             Method for Acidity in Volatile Solvents and Chemical Intermediates Used in Paint,
             Varnish, Lacquer and Related Products” (2017), that is labeled and formulated for
             application directly to bare metal surfaces to provide corrosion resistance and to promote
             adhesion of subsequent topcoats.

      VI.UU. “Primer, sealer, and undercoater” means a coating labeled and formulated to provide a
             firm bond between the substrate and the subsequent coatings; prevent subsequent
             coatings from being absorbed by the substrate; prevent harm to subsequent coatings by
             materials in the substrate; provide a smooth surface for the subsequent application of
             coatings; provide a clear finish coat to seal the substrate; or block materials from
             penetrating into or leaching out of a substrate.

      VI.VV. “Reactive penetrating sealer” means a clear or pigmented coating that is labeled and
             formulated for application to above-grade concrete and masonry substrates to provide
             protection from water and waterborne contaminants, including but not limited to, alkalis,
             acids, and salts. Reactive penetrating sealers must penetrate into concrete and masonry
             substrates and chemically react to form covalent bonds with naturally occurring minerals
             in the substrate. Reactive penetrating sealers line the pores of concrete and masonry
             substrates with a hydrophobic coating, but do not form a surface film. Reactive
             penetrating sealers must improve water repellency at least 80 percent after application on
             a concrete or masonry substrate, as verified on standardized test specimens in
             accordance with one or more of ASTM C67-07 “Standard Test Methods for Sampling and
             Testing Brick and Structural Clay Tile” (2018), ASTM C97-02 “Standard Test Methods for
             Absorption and Bulk Specific Gravity of Dimension Stone” (2018), or ASTM C140-06
             “Standard Test Methods for Sampling and Testing Concrete Masonry Units and Related
             Units” (2018); must not reduce the water vapor transmission rate by more than 2 percent
             after application on a concrete or masonry substrate, as verified on standardized test
             specimens in accordance with ASTM E96/E96M-05 “Standard Test Method for Water
             Vapor Transmission of Materials” (2016); and products labeled and formulated for
             vehicular traffic surface chloride screening applications must meet the performance
             criteria listed in the National Cooperative Highway Research Report 244 “Concrete
             Sealers for the Protection of Bridge Structures” (1981).

      VI.WW. “Reactive penetrating carbonate stone sealer” means a clear or pigmented coating that is
             labeled and formulated for application to above-grade carbonate stone substrates to
             provide protection from water and waterborne contaminants, including, but not limited to,
             alkalis, acids, and salts. Reactive penetrating carbonate stone sealers must penetrate
             into carbonate stone substrates and chemically react to from covalent bonds with
             naturally occurring minerals in the substrates. Reactive penetrating carbonate stone
             sealers line the pores of carbonate stone substrates with a hydrophobic coating but do
             not form a surface film. Reactive penetrating carbonate stone sealers must improve water
             repellency at least 80 percent after application on a carbonate stone substrate, as verified
             in accordance with ASTM C67-07 “Standard Test Methods for Sampling and Testing
             Brick and Structural Clay Tile” (2018), ASTM C97-02 “Standard Test Methods for
             Absorption and Bulk Specific Gravity of Dimension Stone” (2018), or ASTM C140-06
             “Standard Test Methods for Sampling and Testing Concrete Masonry Units and Related
             Units” (2018), and must not reduce the water vapor transmission rate by more than 10
             percent after application on a carbonate stone substrate, as verified in accordance with
             ASTM E96/E96M-05 “Standard Test Method for Water Vapor Transmission of Materials”
             (2016).

      VI.XX. “Recycled coating” means an architectural coating formulated such that it contains a
             minimum of 50% by volume post-consumer coating, with a maximum of 50% by volume
             secondary industrial materials or virgin materials.




                                                                                                      58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.YY. “Residential” means areas where people reside or lodge, including, but not limited to,
             single and multiple family dwellings, condominiums, mobile homes, apartment
             complexes, motels, and hotels.

      VI.ZZ. “Roof coating” means a non-bituminous coating labeled and formulated for application to
             roofs for the primary purpose of preventing water penetration of the substrate by water,
             reflecting heat and ultraviolet light, or reflecting solar radiation. Metallic pigmented roof
             coatings, which qualify as metallic pigmented coatings, are considered to be in the
             metallic pigmented coatings category.

      VI.AAA. “Rust preventive coating” means a coating formulated exclusively for nonindustrial use to
              prevent the corrosion of metal surfaces for direct-to-metal coating or application over
              rusty, previously coated surfaces. The rust preventative category does not include
              coatings that are required to be applied as a topcoat over a primer or coatings that are
              intended for use on wood or any other nonmetallic surface.

      VI.BBB. “Secondary industrial materials” means a finished coating or a finished coating from a
              manufacturing process that has converted resources into a commodity of real economic
              value including products or byproducts of the paint manufacturing process that are of
              known composition and have economic value but can no longer be used for their
              intended use, but does not include excess virgin resources of the manufacturing process.

      VI.CCC.        “Semi-transparent coating” means a coating that contains binders and colored
             pigments and is formulated to change the color of the surface, but not conceal the grain
             pattern or texture.

      VI.DDD.        “Shellac” means a clear or opaque coating formulated solely with the resinous
             secretions of the lac beetle (Laccifer lacca), thinned with alcohol, and formulated to dry
             by evaporation without a chemical reaction.

      VI.EEE. “Shop application” means application of a coating to a product or a component of a
              product in or on the premises of a factory or a shop as part of a manufacturing,
              production, or repairing process.

      VI.FFF. “Solicit” means to require for use or to specify, by written or oral contract.

      VI.GGG.        “Specialty primer, sealer, and undercoater” means a coating that is formulated for
            application to a substrate to block water-soluble stains resulting from: fire damage,
            smoke damage, or water damage.

      VI.HHH.       “Stain” means a semi-transparent or opaque coating labeled and formulated to
             change the color of a surface but not conceal the grain pattern or texture.

      VI.III.   “Stone consolidant” means a coating that is labeled and formulated for application to
                stone substrates to repair historical structures that have been damaged by weathering or
                other decay mechanisms. Stone consolidants must penetrate into stone substrates to
                create bonds between particles and consolidate deteriorated material and be specified
                and used in accordance with ASTM E2167-01 “Standard Guide for Selection and Use of
                Stone Consolidants” (2008).

      VI.JJJ. “Swimming pool coating” means a coating labeled and formulated to coat the interior of
              swimming pools and to resist swimming pool chemicals and includes coatings used for
              swimming pool repair and maintenance.




                                                                                                          59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.KKK. “Thermoplastic rubber coating and mastic” means a coating or mastic formulated and
              recommended for application to roofing or other structural surfaces and that incorporates
              no less than 40 percent by weight of thermoplastic rubbers in the total resin solids and
              may also contain other ingredients including, but not limited to, fillers, pigments, and
              modifying resins.

      VI.LLL. “Tint base” means an architectural coating to which colorant is added after packaging in
              sale units to produce a desired color.

      VI.MMM.        “Traffic marking coating” means a coating labeled and formulated for marking
            and striping streets, highways, or other traffic surfaces including, but not limited to, curbs,
            berms, driveways, parking lots, sidewalks, and airport runways.

      VI.NNN.        “Tub and tile refinish coating” means a clear or opaque coating that is labeled
             and formulated exclusively for refinishing the surface of a bathtub, shower, sink, or
             countertop. Tub and tile refinish coatings must have a scratch hardness of 3H or harder
             and a gouge hardness of 4H or harder, as determined on bonderite 1000 in accordance
             with ASTM D3363-05 “Standard Test Method for Film Hardness by Pencil Test” (2011); a
             weight loss of 20 milligrams or less after 1000 cycles, as determined with CD-17 wheels
             on bonderite 1000 in accordance with ASTM D4060-07 “Standard Test Methods for
             Abrasion Resistance of Organic Coatings by the Taber Abraser” (2014); withstand 1000
             hours or more of exposure with few or no #8 blisters, as determined on unscribed
             bonderite in accordance with ASTM D4585-99 “Standard Practice for Testing Water
             Resistance of Coatings Using Controlled Condensation” (2018) and ASTM D714-02e1
             “Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Blistering of Paints” (2017); and have an
             adhesion rating of 4B or better after 24 hours of recovery, as determined on inscribed
             bonderite in accordance with ASTM D4585-99 “Standard Test Methods for Abrasion
             Resistance of Coatings Using Controlled Condensation” (2018) and ASTM D3359-02
             “Standard Test Methods for Measuring Adhesion by Tape Test” (2017).

      VI.OOO.       “Veneer” means thin sheets of wood peeled or sliced from logs for use in the
            manufacture of wood products such as plywood, laminated veneer lumber, or other
            products.

      VI.PPP. “Virgin materials” means materials that contain no post-consumer coatings or secondary
              industrial coatings.

      VI.QQQ.        “Waterproofing membrane” means a clear or opaque coating that is labeled and
            formulated for application to concrete and masonry surfaces to provide a seamless
            waterproofing membrane that prevents any penetration of liquid water into the substrate
            and does not include topcoats in the concrete/masonry sealer category. Waterproofing
            membranes are intended for below-grade surfaces, between concrete slabs, inside
            tunnels, inside concrete planters, and under flooring materials. Waterproofing
            membranes must be applied in a single coat of at least 25 mils (at least 0.025 inch) dry
            film thickness and meet or exceed the requirements contained in ASTM C836-06
            “Standard Specification for High Solids Content, Cold Liquid-Applied Elastomeric
            Waterproofing Membrane for Use with Separate Wearing Course” (2018). Waterproofing
            membranes do not include topcoats that are included in the concrete/masonry sealer
            category (e.g., parking deck topcoats, pedestrian topcoats, etc.)




                                                                                                        60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.RRR.         “Wood coatings” means coatings labeled and formulated for application to wood
             substrates only. The wood coatings category includes the following clear and
             semitransparent coatings: lacquers; varnishes; sanding sealers; penetrating oils; clear
             stains; wood conditioners used as undercoats; and wood sealers used as topcoats. The
             wood coatings category includes the following opaque wood coatings; opaque lacquers;
             opaque sanding sealers; and opaque lacquer undercoaters. Wood coatings does not
             include clear sealers that are labeled and formulated for use on concrete/masonry
             surfaces or coatings intended for substrates other than wood.

      VI.SSS. “Wood preservative” means a coating labeled and formulated to protect exposed wood
              from decay or insect attack that is registered with the U.S. EPA under the Federal
              Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. section 136, et. seq. (1996)).

      VI.TTT. “Wood substrate” means a substrate made of wood, particleboard, plywood, medium
              density fiberboard, rattan, wicker, bamboo, or composite products with exposed wood
              grain. Wood Products do not include items comprised of simulated wood.

      VI.UUU.        “Zinc-rich primer” means a coating that contains at least 65 percent metallic zinc
             powder or zinc dust by weight of total solids and is formulated for application to metal
             substrates to provide a firm bond between the substrate and subsequent applications of
             coatings. Zinc-rich primers must be labeled in accordance with Section III.D.10.




                                                                                                     61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission



PART C          STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

I.      Adopted: July 18, 2019

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §24-4-103, the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act
§§25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules.

Basis

On May 4, 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published a final rule that determined
that Colorado’s Marginal ozone nonattainment area failed to attain the 2008 8-hour Ozone National
Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). EPA, therefore, reclassified the Denver Metro North Front Range
(DMNFR) area to Moderate and required attainment of the NAAQS no later than July 20, 2018.

In 2015, EPA revised the ozone NAAQS from 0.075 parts per million (ppm) to 0.070 ppm. On June 4,
2018, EPA published a final rule that classified the DMNFR as a Marginal ozone nonattainment area for
the 2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS, with an attainment date of August 3, 2021.

In a continued effort to reduce ozone precursor emissions and achieve the ozone NAAQS, the
Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 21 to establish VOC content limits for consumer products
and AIM coatings manufactured and/or sold in Colorado. The Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) model
rules, which are the basis for this rule, achieve additional VOC reductions over EPA’s national rules in 40
CFR Part 59, Subparts C and D (1998). Therefore, these standards will reduce VOC emissions from
consumer products and AIM coatings and contribute to attaining and maintaining the ozone NAAQS in
Colorado.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§25-7-105(1)(a), 25-7-201 through 25-7-206, 25-
7-210, 25-7-301, and 25-7-302, C.R.S., authorize the Commission to promulgate a comprehensive State
Implementation Plan (SIP) to assure attainment and maintenance of national ambient air quality
standards in conformance with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Sections 105(1)(b) and 109 authorize the
Commission to establish emission control regulations, including pertaining to hydrocarbons. Section
106(1) authorizes the Commission to establish emission control regulations applicable to the entire state
or only within specified areas of the state. Section 106(6) authorizes the Commission to require owners or
operators of any air pollution source to establish and maintain reports and record, monitor, and sample
emissions. Section 109(2) authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations to reduce
emissions of various pollutants, including chemical substances.

Purpose

Consumer products include, for example, adhesives, air-fresheners, cleaners, hair products, and
insecticides. AIM coatings include, for example, coatings applied to stationary structures, portable
buildings, pavements, or curbs.




                                                                                                        62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


The Commission adopted VOC standards in the OTC model rules for consumer products and AIM
coatings manufactured, distributed, or sold in Colorado. The standards as applied in the DMNFR are
included in Colorado’s ozone State Implementation Plan (SIP) and in the remainder of the state as state-
only requirements. Specifically, the Commission adopted VOC standards in the OTC AIM coatings model
rule phase II (2014) and VOC standards in the OTC consumer products model rule phase IV (2013). The
OTC model rules are based on the California Air Resources Board (CARB) standards. CARB develops
standards based on technical information and extensive survey data, which is also used to determine
compliance with the standards. The Commission adopted definitions, exemptions, labeling, and
recordkeeping provisions based on the OTC model rules. The Commission intends that the adopted
definitions have the same meanings as in the OTC model rules.

Consumer Products

The Commission adopted VOC content limits, labeling, and reporting provisions for consumer products
based on the OTC model rule phase IV. The OTC has also published consumer products models rules
phases I, II, III, and V. The OTC model rule phase V was only published in 2018. The Commission
adopted Regulation Number 21 based on the OTC model rule phase IV due to the current implementation
of this phase by some states, notably by Utah, and the potential increase in VOC emission reductions
over EPA’s national rule.

The OTC model rule includes provisions to regulate two chemical substances – methylene chloride and
perchloroethylene – which are defined as “negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds.” Therefore,
these chemicals would not achieve VOC, thus ozone, reductions as part of Colorado’s ozone SIP. The
provisions that regulate these chemicals are considered optional in the OTC Model rules and the
Commission decided not to adopt the provisions for methylene chloride and perchloroethyelene at this
time. The Commission directs the division to investigate the costs and benefits of these additional
provisions from a health perspective, and to brief the Commission on their findings as soon as
practicable.

AIM Coatings

The Commission adopted VOC content limits, labeling, and reporting provisions for AIM coatings based
on the OTC model rule phase II. The OTC has also published an AIM coatings model rule phase I. As
with consumer products, Regulation Number 21 is based on the OTC model rule phase II due to the
potential increase in VOC emission reductions over EPA’s national rule. Further, the OTC model rule
phase II is based on California’s 2006 standards, which are also being implemented by other states.

Given the need for ozone precursor reductions in the 2020 summer ozone months, the Commission
adopted ambitious, but achievable, implementation schedules for the consumer products and AIM
coatings VOC content limits. This schedule combined with the sell-through opportunities allows adequate
time to reformulate, relabel, and/or redistribute products in order to comply.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must continue to reduce ozone concentrations to attain both the 2008 ozone NAAQS and the
2015 ozone NAAQS. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission adopted Regulation Number 21 to
make progress towards attainment of the 2008 and 2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS. These revisions do not
exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment area SIPs. In
addition, EPA’s national rules, promulgated in 1998, do not limit states from developing more stringent
levels of control to attain the ozone standard. However, in accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the
Commission nonetheless determines:




                                                                                                        63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


      (I)      In 1998, EPA established national standards to reduce VOC emissions from architectural
               coatings and consumer products. EPA’s national rules do not limit states from developing
               more stringent levels of control to attain the ozone standard. The OTC model rules, which
               are the basis for the division’s proposal, achieve additional VOC reductions over EPA’s
               national rules in 40 CFR Part 59, Subparts C and D.

      (II)     The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that the rules largely
               prescribe the use of specific VOC contents in order to comply. The federal rules provide
               flexibility by allowing reformulation to meet the VOC content limits. The federal rules also
               provide some product and quantity exemptions.

      (III)    The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP
               revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not
               determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. EPA’s 1998 federal
               consumer products and architectural coatings rules also do not take into account
               concerns unique to Colorado or limit Colorado from adopting more stringent standards.
               The OTC model rules, which are the basis for the division’s proposal, achieve additional
               VOC reductions over EPA’s national rules.

      (IV)     Colorado must attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS as well as the lower 2015 ozone NAAQS.
               The adopted VOC standards, based on the OTC consumer products model rule phase
               four and AIM coatings model rule phase two rather than less stringent OTC model rules,
               may prevent or reduce the need for the regulated community to meet more stringent
               requirements later.

      (V)      Colorado’s attainment date under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, as a Moderate ozone
               nonattainment area, was July 2018, and if reclassified to Serious, Colorado’s attainment
               date will be July 2021. Colorado’s attainment date under the 2015 ozone NAAQS is
               August 2021. There are no timing issues that might justify changing these time frames.

      (VI)     The requirements in Regulation Number 21 address VOC emissions from consumer
               products and AIM coatings in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued economic
               growth in Colorado.

      (VII)    The requirements in Regulation Number 21 establish reasonable equity for sources of
               VOC by providing the same categorical standards for the various consumer product and
               AIM coatings categories.

      (VIII)   Because Colorado did not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by July 2018, EPA will likely
               reclassify Colorado as a Serious ozone nonattainment area, which automatically reduces
               the major source thresholds from 100 tons per year of VOC and NOx to 50 tons per year;
               thus subjecting more sources to permitting and categorical RACT requirements. If
               Colorado does not attain the 2015 ozone NAAQS by August 2021, EPA will likely
               reclassify Colorado as a Moderate ozone nonattainment area under the 2015 ozone
               NAAQS. If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
               Implementation Plan for Colorado. These potential outcomes may subject others to
               increased costs.

      (IX)     The requirements in Regulation Number 21 include minimal monitoring, recordkeeping,
               and procedural requirements that correlate to requirements in the OTC model rules.

      (X)      Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the standards in Regulation Number
               21. These standards are being implemented in other states and/or ozone nonattainment
               areas.




                                                                                                         64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


        (XI)    As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the requirements in Regulation Number 21
                contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.

        (XII)   Although alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to attain the
                NAAQS, the Commission determined that the division’s proposal was reasonable and
                cost-effective.

As part of adopting Regulation Number 21, the Commission has taken into consideration each of the
factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must continue to reduce ozone concentrations to attain both the 2008 ozone NAAQS and the
2015 ozone NAAQS. However, to the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this
rulemaking, and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

        (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
                scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
                by interested parties.

        (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable
                reduction of the ozone precursor VOC.

        (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about reductions in
                risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply
                with the rules.

        (IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results,
                provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary reduction in air
                pollution.

        (V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective
                manner.

II.     Adopted: December 16, 2022

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedure Act §24-4-103, the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act
§§25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules.

Basis

On October 7, 2022, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published a final rule that
determined that Colorado’s serious ozone nonattainment area failed to attain the 2008 8-hour Ozone
National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). EPA, therefore, reclassified the Denver Metro North
Front Range (DMNFR) area to severe and required attainment of the NAAQS no later than July 20, 2027.

In a continued effort to reduce ozone precursor emissions and achieve the ozone NAAQS and provide for
contingency measures, the Commission adopted revisions to the VOC content limits for consumer
products manufactured and/or sold in Colorado.




                                                                                                            65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§25-7-105(1)(a), 25-7-201 through 25-7-206, 25-
7-210, 25-7-301, and 25-7-302, C.R.S., authorize the Commission to promulgate a comprehensive State
Implementation Plan (SIP) to assure attainment and maintenance of national ambient air quality
standards in conformance with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Sections 105(1)(b) and 109 authorize the
Commission to establish emission control regulations, including pertaining to hydrocarbons. Section
106(1) authorizes the Commission to establish emission control regulations applicable to the entire state
or only within specified areas of the state. Section 106(6) authorizes the Commission to require owners or
operators of any air pollution source to establish and maintain reports and record, monitor, and sample
emissions. Section 109(2) authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations to reduce
emissions of various pollutants, including chemical substances.

Purpose

The Commission adopted new and revised VOC standards in the OTC model rule for consumer products
manufactured, distributed, or sold in Colorado. The standards as applied in the DMNFR and northern
Weld County are included in Colorado’s ozone State Implementation Plan (SIP) and in the remainder of
the state as state-only requirements. The Commission recognizes that Weld County has challenged
EPA’s expansion of the 2015 ozone nonattainment area boundary and directs the Division to evaluate the
use of the term “northern Weld County” as related to the ozone nonattainment area following the
conclusion of the litigation, as necessary. The Commission does not use the term “northern Weld County”
to indicate any particular culpability of Weld County as related to the ozone nonattainment classification
but selected that term for consistency and clarity for potentially impacted sources. Specifically, the
Commission adopted VOC standards in the OTC consumer products model rule phase V (2018). The
OTC model rules are based on the California Air Resources Board (CARB) standards. CARB develops
standards based on technical information and extensive survey data, which is also used to determine
compliance with the standards. The Commission adopted definitions, exemptions, labeling, and
recordkeeping provisions based on the OTC model rule. However, the Commission did not adopt new or
revised VOC standards in the OTC model rule phase V for windshield water repellent, due to freezing and
safety concerns; gear, chain, or wire or penetrant lubricants, due to reformulation limitations; and
aerosols, due to propellant concerns. The Colorado legislature recently passed House Bill 22-1345
(Concerning measures to increase protections from perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl chemicals) which
allows the use of hydrofluoroolefins as propellants in cosmetics and fabric treatment, but only until 2027.
After January 1, 2027, manufacturers will not be able to use current propellants in these aerosol products
and are, therefore, unsure of the ability of future products to comply with the OTC VOC content limits.
However, the Commission anticipates that the Division will reevaluate these aerosol VOC content limits in
the future. Similarly, the Commission anticipates that the Division will reevaluate the new and revised
aerosol VOC content limits should EPA take similar action limiting the use of hydrofluoroolefins in EPA’s
per and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) actions.

The Commission adopted these standards with a later implementation date as a contingency measure for
the 2008 ozone SIP. The Clean Air Act § 172(c)(9) requires nonattainment area SIPs provide for the
implementation of contingency measures should the area fail to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, these new
and revised VOC standards and definitions will only apply 60 days after the effective date of a finding by
EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS. The Commission directs the Division to
notify the consumer products industry and trade groups as soon as possible if it appears that Colorado
will not attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS in order for industry to assess the impacts to aerosol products,
considering the recent PFAS legislation, and to ensure that industry can modify supply chains, as
necessary, to ensure that compliant products are available for sale by the new effective date.




                                                                                                        66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


Additional Considerations

Colorado must continue to reduce ozone concentrations to attain both the 2008 ozone NAAQS and the
2015 ozone NAAQS. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop
a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission revised Regulation Number 21 to
include contingency measures for the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. These revisions do not exceed or
differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in developing nonattainment area SIPs. In addition, EPA’s
national rules, promulgated in 1998, do not limit states from developing more stringent levels of control to
attain the ozone standard. However, in accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), the Commission
nonetheless determines:

        (I)      In 1998, EPA established national standards to reduce VOC emissions from architectural
                 coatings and consumer products. EPA’s national rules do not limit states from developing
                 more stringent levels of control to attain the ozone standard. The OTC model rules, which
                 are the basis for the division’s proposal, achieve additional VOC reductions over EPA’s
                 national rules in 40 CFR Part 59, Subparts C and D.

        (II)     The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that the rules largely
                 prescribe the use of specific VOC contents in order to comply. The federal rules provide
                 flexibility by allowing reformulation to meet the VOC content limits. The federal rules also
                 provide some product and quantity exemptions.

        (III)    The CAA establishes the 8-hour ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP
                 revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not
                 determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. EPA’s 1998 federal
                 consumer products and architectural coatings rules also do not take into account
                 concerns unique to Colorado or limit Colorado from adopting more stringent standards.
                 The OTC model rules, which are the basis for the division’s proposal, achieve additional
                 VOC reductions over EPA’s national rules.

        (IV)     Colorado must attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS, as well as the lower 2015 ozone NAAQS.
                 The adopted VOC standards, based on the OTC consumer products model rule phase
                 five, may prevent or reduce the need for the regulated community to meet more stringent
                 requirements later.

        (V)      Colorado’s attainment date under the 2008 ozone NAAQS, as a severe ozone
                 nonattainment area, is July 2027. There are no timing issues that might justify changing
                 these time frames.

        (VI)     The requirements in Regulation Number 21 address VOC emissions from consumer
                 products in a cost-effective manner, allowing for continued economic growth in Colorado.

        (VII)    The requirements in Regulation Number 21 establish reasonable equity for sources of
                 VOC by providing the same categorical standards for the various consumer product
                 categories.

        (VIII)   If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal Implementation
                 Plan for Colorado. These potential outcomes may subject others to increased costs.

        (IX)     The requirements in Regulation Number 21 include minimal monitoring, recordkeeping,
                 and procedural requirements that correlate to requirements in the OTC model rules.




                                                                                                           67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-25
Air Quality Control Commission


        (X)      Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the standards in Regulation Number
                 21. These standards are being implemented in other states and/or ozone nonattainment
                 areas.

        (XI)     As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the requirements in Regulation Number 21
                 contribute to the prevention of ozone in a cost-effective manner.

        (XII)    Although alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone and help to attain the
                 NAAQS, the Commission determined that the Division’s proposal was reasonable and
                 cost-effective.

As part of adopting Regulation Number 21, the Commission has taken into consideration each of the
factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-109(1)(b).

Colorado must continue to reduce ozone concentrations to attain both the ozone NAAQS. However, to
the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all the
information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

        (I)      These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
                 scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
                 by interested parties.

        (II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable
                 reduction of the ozone precursor VOC.

        (III)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about reductions in
                 risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply
                 with the rules.

        (IV)     The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results,
                 provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary reduction in air
                 pollution.

        (V)      The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective
                 manner.

___________________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 09/14/2019.
Part A, Part B rules I A.2, I A.3, VI.NN-VI.UUU, Part C rule II eff. 02/14/2023.




                                                                                                             68
