CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    Department of Public Health and Environment

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 24 CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM VOLATILE ORGANIC
    COMPOUNDS AND PETROLEUM LIQUIDS STORAGE AND PETROLEUM
    PROCESSING AND REFINING

    5 CCR 1001-28

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A        Applicability and General Provisions

           I.     Applicability

           II.    General Provisions

    Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas

    PART B      Storage, Transfer, and Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds and
         Petroleum Liquids and Petroleum Processing and Refining

           I.     General Requirements for Storage and Transfer of Volatile Organic
                  Compounds

           II.    Storage of Highly Volatile Organic Compounds

           III.   Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds

           IV.    Storage and Transfer of Petroleum Liquid

           V.     Crude Oil

           VI.    Petroleum Processing and Refining

           VII.   Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Vapor Collection
                  Systems and Vapor Control Systems Located at Gasoline Terminals,
                  Gasoline Bulk Plants, and Gasoline Dispensing Facilities

    Appendix B Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer to Storage Tanks

    Appendix C Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer at Bulk Plants

    PART C        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose




                                                                                        1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


_____________________________________________________________________

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated
by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. The
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
later amendments.

PART A        Applicability and General Provisions

I.     Applicability

I.A.

       I.A.1. The provisions of this regulation shall apply as follows:

              I.A.1.a.      All provisions of this regulation apply to the Denver 1-hour
                     ozone attainment/maintenance area, to any nonattainment area for
                     the 1-hour ozone standard, to the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and
                     to northern Weld County.

              I.A.1.b.      (State Only) All provisions of this regulation apply to any
                     ozone nonattainment area, which includes areas designated
                     nonattainment for either the 1-hour or 8-hour ozone standard,
                     unless otherwise specified in Section I.A.1.c. Colorado’s ozone
                     nonattainment or attainment maintenance area maps and
                     chronologies of attainment status are identified in Appendix A of
                     this regulation.

              I.A.1.c.       The provisions of Part B, Sections III., IV.B.1. and IV.B.2.,
                      and V.C. apply statewide. The provisions marked by (State Only)
                      are not federally enforceable, unless otherwise identified.

       I.A.2. REPEALED

       I.A.3. REPEALED

I.B.   Sources

       I.B.1. New Sources

              I.B.1.a.       New sources, defined as any sources located in the 1-hour
                     ozone nonattainment area or attainment maintenance area, which
                     either (1) submit a complete permit application on or after October
                     30, 1989, or (2) if no permit is required, commence operation on or



                                                                                             2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                 after October 30, 1989, must comply with the provisions of this
                 regulation upon commencement of operation.

          I.B.1.b.       (State Only) New sources are any sources which
                 commenced construction on or after the date on which the area is
                 first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are
                 located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone
                 nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30,
                 1989. New sources shall comply with the requirements of this
                 regulation by whichever date comes later:

                 I.B.1.b.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in
                        what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                 I.B.1.b.(ii) (State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in
                        an 8-Hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the 1-hour
                        ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or

                 I.B.1.b.(iii) (State Only) Upon commencement of operation, if
                        located within an ozone nonattainment or attainment
                        maintenance area.

    I.B.2. Existing Sources

          I.B.2.a.     Existing sources are

                 I.B.2.a.(i)   (1) those sources for which a complete permit
                        application was submitted prior to October 30, 1989, or (2)
                        those sources, which commenced operation prior to October
                        30, 1989, if they are located in the 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area.

                 I.B.2.a.(ii)  Those sources that submitted a complete permit
                        application or that commenced operation prior to February 1,
                        2009, if they are located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
                        and outside of the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                        maintenance area.

                 I.B.2.a.(iii) Those sources located in northern Weld County that
                        submitted a complete application or that commenced
                        operation prior to February 14, 2023.

          I.B.2.b.        (State Only) Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone
                 nonattainment or attainment maintenance area are those sources
                 which commenced construction prior to the date on which the area
                 is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are
                 located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone



                                                                                      3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                    nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30,
                    1989.

             I.B.2.c.        Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment
                     or attainment maintenance area shall not be required to comply
                     with requirements of this regulation until on and after October 30,
                     1991. All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set
                     forth in Exhibit A until October 30, 1991.

             I.B.2.d.      Existing sources shall be required to comply with
                    requirements of this regulation by the following dates.

                    I.B.2.d.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in
                           what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone
                           nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                    I.B.2.d.(ii) (State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in
                           an 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the Denver 1-
                           hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                    I.B.2.d.(iii) February 14, 2023, if located in northern Weld County
                           and subject to requirements in Part B, Sections III., IV.B.1.,
                           IV.B.2., or V.C.

                    I.B.2.d.(iv) December 31, 2024, if located in northern Weld
                           County and not subject to requirements in Part B, Sections
                           III., IV.B.1., IV.B.2., or V.C.; or

                    I.B.2.d.(v)    (State Only) Three years after the date on which the
                           area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone,
                           if located within that ozone nonattainment or attainment
                           maintenance area.

             I.B.2.e.      On and after October 30, 1991, all existing sources located
                    in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area
                    shall comply with the requirements of this regulation, and Exhibit A
                    shall no longer be applicable.

             I.B.2.f. Repealed.

             I.B.2.g.      Repealed.

I.C.   Once a source subject to this regulation exceeds an applicable threshold limit,
       the requirements of this regulation are irrevocably effective unless the source
       obtains a federally enforceable permit limiting emissions to levels below the
       threshold limit by restricting production capacity or hours of operation.




                                                                                           4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


I.D.    The owner or operator of a source not required to obtain a permit by provisions of
        law other than this section may apply for and shall be required to accept a permit
        as a condition of avoiding RACT requirements. Such permits shall contain only
        those conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement of the production capacity
        or hours of operation.

II.     General Provisions

II.A.   Definitions

        II.A.1. “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe,
                Boulder (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and
                Jefferson; the Cities and Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the
                following portions of the Counties of Larimer and Weld:

               II.A.1.a.       For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain
                       National Park), that portion of the county that lies south of a line
                       described as follows: Beginning at a point on Larimer County’s
                       eastern boundary and Weld County’s western boundary intersected
                       by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude,
                       proceed west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees,
                       42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29
                       minutes, and 40.0 seconds west longitude, thence proceed south
                       on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west longitude to the
                       intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north
                       latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4
                       seconds north latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s
                       western boundary and Grand County’s eastern boundary.

               II.A.1.b.       For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of
                       a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s
                       eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
                       intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude,
                       proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
                       latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary
                       and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.

        II.A.2. “Denver 1-Hour Ozone Attainment/Maintenance Area” means the
                Counties of Jefferson and Douglas, the Cities and Counties of Denver and
                Broomfield, Boulder County (excluding Rocky Mountain National Park),
                Adams County west of Kiowa Creek, and Arapahoe County west of Kiowa
                Creek.

        II.A.3. “Capture System” means the equipment used to contain, capture, or
                transport a pollutant to a control device.

        II.A.4. “Capture System Efficiency (vapor gathering system efficiency)” means
                the percent by weight of VOC emitted by an operation subject to this



                                                                                            5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


           regulation, which is captured by the capture system and sent to the control
           device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC captured)/(mass flow of VOC emitted by
           the operation) x 100%.

    II.A.5. “Carbon Adsorption System” means a device containing adsorbent
            material, an inlet and outlet for exhaust gases and a system to regenerate
            the saturated adsorbent.

    II.A.6. “Condenser” means any heat transfer device used to liquefy vapors by
            removing their latent heats of vaporization. Such devices include, but are
            not limited to, shell and tube, coil, surface, or contact condensers.

    II.A.7. “Control Device” means a carbon adsorber, refrigeration system,
            condenser, flare, firebox or other device, which will reduce the
            concentration of VOC in a gas stream by adsorption, combustion,
            condensation, or other means of removal.

    II.A.8. “Control Device Efficiency” means the percent removal by weight of VOC
            by a control device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC into control device - mass flow
            of VOC out of control device)/(mass flow of VOC into control device) x
            100%.

    II.A.9. "Gasoline" means a petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure
            between 208 and 1040 torr (4-20 psi), which is used as fuel for internal
            combustion engines.

    II.A.10.     "Highly Volatile Organic Compound" is defined as a Volatile
           Organic Compound or mixture of such compounds with a true vapor
           pressure in excess of 570 torr (11 psia) at 20 C.

    II.A.11.     “Organic Material” means a chemical compound of carbon,
           excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic
           carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate.

    II.A.12.      (State Only) “Ozone Nonattainment Area” means any area
           designated as not in attainment with the ozone National Ambient Air
           Quality Standard as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency.

    II.A.13.       “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does
           not lie south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld
           County’s eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
           intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude,
           proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until
           this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s
           eastern boundary.

    II.A.14.      “Petroleum Refinery” means any facility engaged in producing
           gasoline, aromatics, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils,



                                                                                         6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


               lubricants, asphalt, or other products through distillation of petroleum or
               through redistillation, cracking, rearrangement or reforming of unfinished
               petroleum derivatives.

        II.A.15.       “Reid Vapor Pressure” means the absolute vapor pressure of
               volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquefied
               petroleum gases as determined by the American Society for Testing and
               Materials, Part 17, 1973, D-323-72 (Reapproved 1977).

        II.A.16.     “True Vapor Pressure” means the equilibrium partial pressure
               exerted by petroleum (or other) liquid. This may be determined by the
               methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517,
               “Evaporation Loss from Floating Roof Tanks,” 1962.

        II.A.17.      “Vapor Recovery System” means a system that prevents release to
               the atmosphere of organic compounds emitted during the operation of any
               transfer, storage, or processing equipment.

        II.A.18.       "Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)" means any compound of
               carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid,
               metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which
               participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions, except those listed in
               Section II.B. as having negligible photochemical reactivity. VOC may be
               measured by a reference method, an equivalent method, an alternative
               method, or by procedures specified under 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2022).
               A reference method, an equivalent method, or an alternative method,
               however, may also measure nonreactive organic compounds. In such
               cases, an owner or operator may exclude the compounds listed in Section
               II.B. when determining compliance with a standard if the amount of such
               compounds is accurately quantified, and such exclusion is approved by
               the Division. As a precondition to excluding such compounds as VOC, or
               at any time thereafter, the Division may require an owner or operator to
               provide monitoring or testing methods and results demonstrating, to the
               satisfaction of the Division, the amount of negligible-reactive compounds
               in the source's emissions.

II.B.   Exemptions

Emissions of the organic compounds listed as having negligible photochemical reactivity
in the common provisions definition of Negligibly Reactive Volatile Organic Compound
are exempt from the provisions of this regulation.

II.C.   General Emission Limitation

        II.C.1. Existing Sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                maintenance area or the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area




                                                                                             7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


         II.C.1.a.       All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set
                 forth in this regulation.

                II.C.1.a.(i)   Existing sources of VOC which are not subject to
                        specific emission limitations set forth in this regulation, and
                        which have the potential to emit 100 tons per year or more of
                        VOC, shall utilize Reasonably Available Control Technology
                        (RACT).

                II.C.1.a.(ii) The potential to emit of such sources shall be based
                        on design capacity or maximum production rate, whichever
                        is greater, 8,760 hours’/year operation, and before add-on
                        controls.

                II.C.1.a.(iii) Owners or operators of such sources with potential
                        emissions of 100 tons per year or more, but with actual
                        emissions less than 100 tons per year may obtain a federally
                        enforceable permit limiting emissions to actual rates by
                        restricting production capacity or hours of operation, thus
                        avoiding RACT requirements. The owner or operator of a
                        source not required to obtain a permit by provisions of law
                        other than this section may apply for and shall be required to
                        accept a permit as a condition of avoiding RACT
                        requirements. Such permits shall contain only those
                        conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement of the
                        production capacity or hours of operation.

                II.C.1.a.(iv) Such sources with potential emissions of 100 tons per
                        year or more but with actual emissions of less than 50 tons
                        per year, on a rolling 12-month total, may avoid RACT and
                        permit requirements if the following requirements are met:

                       II.C.1.a.(iv)(A)      The owner or operator shall submit
                               revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices (APENs) by
                               April 1 of each year, which demonstrate that the 50
                               tons per year threshold has not been exceeded.

                       II.C.1.a.(iv)(B)       The owner or operator shall maintain
                               records on site which include monthly VOC use and
                               monthly VOC emissions. The records shall include
                               calculation of total emissions for each rolling 12-
                               month period. The records shall be made available to
                               the Division for inspection upon request.

                II.C.1.a.(v) (State Only) Existing sources that are modified –
                        undergo any physical change, or changed in the method of
                        operation of a stationary source which increase VOC or NOx




                                                                                       8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                       emissions – on or after March 30, 2008, shall utilize RACT
                       control technologies pursuant to Regulation Number 7,
                       Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and Regulation
                       Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. upon recommencing
                       operation.

         II.C.1.b.      Provided however, that no existing source of VOC emissions
                 employing emission controls on or within the six-month period
                 preceding the effective date of this regulation may reduce its level
                 of control of VOC emissions below that level of control actually
                 achieved, even though such source may otherwise be subject to
                 less stringent control requirements, except that no existing source
                 shall be required to control emissions to an extent greater than that
                 level of control which RACT would achieve.

         II.C.1.c.      (State Only) Existing sources with potential emissions equal
                 to or greater than 100 tons per year of volatile organic compound
                 emissions shall submit a permit modification application that
                 includes a revised APEN (or APENs) and a RACT analysis, to the
                 Division, as follows:

                II.C.1.c.(i)  (State Only) By October 30, 1991 if located in what
                        was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or

                II.C.1.c.(ii) (State Only) By April 30, 2009 or within one year after
                        the date on which the area is first designated as being in
                        nonattainment for ozone, whichever comes later, if they are
                        located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the
                        Denver 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                        maintenance area.

         II.C.1.d.     (State Only) Existing sources shall utilize RACT pursuant to
                 Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and
                 Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. by whichever date
                 comes later:

                II.C.1.d.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1991, if they are located in
                        what was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                II.C.1.d.(ii) (State Only) November 21, 2011, if they are located in
                        the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and outside of the Denver 1-
                        hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                II.C.1.d.(iii) (State Only) Three years after the date on which the
                        area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone;
                        or



                                                                                     9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                      II.C.1.d.(iv) (State Only) Two years after Division determination of
                              case-by-case RACT pursuant to this Section II.C.1. The
                              Division shall be deemed to have approved the RACT
                              analysis for purposes of this Section II.C.1.d.(iv) if it does not
                              object after eighteen months from having received a
                              complete permit application.

        II.C.2. New Sources

        All new sources shall utilize controls representing RACT, pursuant to Regulation
        Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and Regulation Number 3,
        Part B, Section III.D., upon commencement of operation.

II.D.   Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods

        II.D.1. Sources subject to specific requirements of this regulation shall submit for
                approval as a revision to the State Implementation Plan:

               II.D.1.a.      Any alternative emission control plan or compliance method
                       other than control options specifically allowed in the applicable
                       regulation. Such alternative control plans shall provide control equal
                       to or greater than the emission control or reduction required by the
                       regulation, unless the source contends that the control level
                       required by the regulation does not represent RACT for their
                       specific source.

               II.D.1.b.     Any alternative test method or procedure not specifically
                       allowed in the applicable regulation.

        II.D.2. No alternative submitted pursuant to this Section II.D. is effective until the
                alternative is approved as a revision to the State Implementation Plan.

II.E.   REPEALED

II.F.   Provisions for Specific Processes

        II.F.1. The Gates Rubber Company Provision – REPEALED

Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas

I.      Chronology of Attainment Status

Denver Metropolitan Area Only

1978            Denver 1-hour Ozone Nonattainment Area designation first becomes
        effective in 7-county Denver Metropolitan Area




                                                                                             10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


10/11/01     Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area designation replaces
      non-attainment designation and becomes effective in 7-county Denver
      Metropolitan Area

9/2/05         1-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is Revoked in
         Colorado except for the Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area.

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range

10/11/01      1-hour attainment maintenance area replaces non-attainment designation
      for the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range Area

4/15/04            EPA designates the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range region
      as an 8-hour ozone non-attainment area, designation deferred due to the
      implementation of the Early Action Compact

11/20/07   Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (1997 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

7/20/2012  Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (2008 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

8/3/2018      Denver 8-hour ozone nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) becomes
      effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

12/31/2021 EPA modification of the 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 8-hour ozone
      nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) to include the portion of northern Weld
      County defined in Part A

II.      Maps

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range (2008 Ozone NAAQS)




                                                                                    11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission




Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range and northern Weld County
(2015 ozone NAAQS)




                                                                          12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS     5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission




                                           13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


PART B      Storage, Transfer, and Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds and
Petroleum Liquids and Petroleum Processing and Refining

I.  General Requirements for Storage and Transfer of Volatile Organic
Compounds

I.A.    Maintenance and Operation of Storage Tanks and Related Equipment

All storage tank gauging devices, anti-rotation devices, accesses, seals, hatches, roof
drainage systems, support structures, and pressure relief valves shall be maintained
and operated to prevent detectable vapor loss except when opened, actuated, or used
for necessary and proper activities (e.g. maintenance). Such opening, actuation, or use
shall be limited so as to minimize vapor loss.

Detectable vapor loss shall be determined visually, by touch, by presence of odor, or
using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer. When an analyzer is used, detectable vapor
loss means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000 ppm. Testing and monitoring shall
be conducted as in Part B, Section VI.C.3.

I.B.    Transfer (excluding Petroleum Liquids)

Except as otherwise provided in this regulation, all volatile organic compounds
transferred to any tank, container, or vehicle compartment with a capacity exceeding
212 liters (56 gallons), shall be transferred using submerged or bottom filling equipment.
For top loading, the fill tube shall reach within six inches of the bottom of the tank
compartment. For bottom-fill operations, the inlet shall be flush with the tank bottom.

I.C.    Beer production and associated beer container storage and transfer operations
        involving volatile organic compounds with a true vapor pressure of less than 1.5
        psia actual conditions are exempt from the provisions of Section I.B.

II.     Storage of Highly Volatile Organic Compounds

II.A.   Highly volatile organic compounds shall be stored:

        II.A.1. In a pressure tank which is at all times capable of maintaining working
                pressures sufficient to prevent vapor loss to the ambient air; or

        II.A.2. With methods and/or equipment approved by the Division in writing
                pursuant to the request of the person owning or operating the storage
                facility.

II.B.   Vapor loss shall be determined visually, by presence of frost or condensation at
        the point of leakage, or using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer. When an
        analyzer is used, vapor loss means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000 ppm
        and testing and monitoring procedures shall be conducted as in Part B, Section
        VI.C.3.




                                                                                          14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


III.   Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds

III.A. No person shall dispose of volatile organic compounds by evaporation or spillage
       unless RACT is utilized.

III.B. No owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal, bulk gasoline plant, or gasoline
       dispensing facility as defined in Part B, Sections IV.C.2., IV.C.3. and VII.A.3.,
       shall permit gasoline to be intentionally spilled, discarded in sewers, stored in
       open containers, or disposed of in any other manner that would result in
       evaporation.

IV.    Storage and Transfer of Petroleum Liquid

IV.A. General Requirements

       IV.A.1.       No person shall build, install, or permit the building or installation of
              any rotating pump or compressor handling any type of petroleum liquid
              unless said pump or compressor is equipped with mechanical seals or
              other equipment of equal efficiency. If reciprocating-type pumps and
              compressors are used, they shall be equipped with packing glands
              properly installed, in good working order, and properly maintained so that
              no detectable emissions occur from the drain recovery systems.

       IV.A.2.       Definitions

       For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

              IV.A.2.a.     Repealed.

              IV.A.2.b.     "Crude Oil" means a naturally occurring mixture which
                     consists of hydrocarbons, sulfur, nitrogen or oxygen derivatives of
                     hydrocarbons, and which is a liquid at standard conditions.

              IV.A.2.c.       "Custody Transfer" means the transfer of produced crude oil
                     and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the
                     producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer
                     facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.

              IV.A.2.d.      "EFR Tank" means a storage vessel having an external
                     floating roof.

              IV.A.2.e.     "External Floating Roof" means a storage vessel cover in an
                     open top tank consisting of a double deck or pontoon single deck
                     which rests upon and is supported by the petroleum liquid being
                     contained and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the
                     space between the roof edge and tank wall.




                                                                                            15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


            IV.A.2.f.      “Liquid-Mounted Seal" means a primary seal mounted in
                   continuous contact with the contained liquid and which occupies an
                   annular space between the inner tank wall and the perimeter of the
                   floating roof.

            IV.A.2.g.     "Petroleum Liquid" means crude oil, condensate and any
                   finished or intermediate product manufactured or extracted in a
                   petroleum refinery.

            IV.A.2.h.     "Shoe Seal" means a primary seal employing a metallic
                   band (called a shoe) which is held against the vertical inner-wall of
                   the tank, concentric with the perimeter of the floating roof.

            IV.A.2.i.     "Vapor Balance System" means a combination of pipes or
                   hoses that create a closed system between the vapor spaces of an
                   unloading tank and a receiving tank such that vapors displaced
                   from the receiving tank are transferred to the tank being unloaded.

            IV.A.2.j.            “Vapor Collection System” means a vapor transport
                   system which uses direct displacement by the gasoline being
                   transferred to force vapors from the vessel being loaded into either
                   a vessel being unloaded or a vapor holding tank.

            IV.A.2.k.      "Vapor-Mounted Seal" means a primary seal mounted so
                   there is an annular vapor space underneath the seal. The annular
                   vapor space is bounded by the bottom of the primary seal, the
                   liquid surface, the floating roof, and the tank wall (thus excluding
                   shoe seals).

            IV.A.2.l.            "Waxy, Heavy Pour Crude Oil" means a crude oil with
                   a pour point of 10°C (50°F) or higher as determined by the
                   American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D97-66, "Test
                   for Pour Point of Petroleum Oils."

IV.B. Storage of Petroleum Liquid

      IV.B.1.      Exemptions

            IV.B.1.a.    Tanks or other containers used to store the following liquids
                   are exempt from the provisions of Sections IV.B.2. and IV.B.3.:

                   IV.B.1.a.(i) Diesel Fuels 1-D, 2-D, and 4-D as defined in ASTM
                          D975-78.

                   IV.B.1.a.(ii) Fuel Oils #1, #2, #3, #4, and #5, as defined in ASTM
                          D396-78.




                                                                                      16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                 IV.B.1.a.(iii) Gas Turbine Fuels 1-GT through 4-GT as defined in
                        ASTM D2880-78.

          IV.B.1.b.    The following underground storage facilities are exempt from
                 Section IV.B.2.:

                 IV.B.1.b.(i) Underground tanks if the annual sum total of the
                        volume of liquid removed from the tank plus the sum of the
                        volume of liquid added to it does not exceed twice the
                        operational volume of the tank (i.e., a maximum of one
                        turnover per year is allowed).

                 IV.B.1.b.(ii)   Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs.

                 IV.B.1.b.(iii) Horizontal underground tanks storing JP-4 Jet Fuel.

    IV.B.2.      Storage of petroleum liquid in tanks greater than 151,412 liters
           (40,000 gallons)

          IV.B.2.a.     Storage of petroleum liquid in fixed-roof tanks.

                 IV.B.2.a.(i) The owner or operator of a fixed-roof tank used for
                        storage of petroleum liquids which have a true vapor
                        pressure greater than 33.6 torr (0.65 psia) at 20°C (or,
                        alternatively, a Reid vapor pressure greater than 1.30
                        pounds - (67.2 torr) but not greater than 570 torr (11.0 psia)
                        at 20°C, and which are stored in any tank or other container
                        of more than 151,412 liters (40,000 gallons) shall ensure that
                        the tank at all times meets the following conditions:

                        IV.B.2.a.(i)(A)        The tank has been equipped with a
                               pontoon-type, or double-deck type, floating roof or an
                               internal floating cover which rests on the surface of
                               the liquid contents and which is equipped with a
                               closure seal or seals to close the space between the
                               edge of the floating roof (or cover) and tank walls; or

                        IV.B.2.a.(i)(B)      The tank has been equipped with a
                               vapor gathering system capable of collecting the
                               petroleum liquid vapors discharged, together with a
                               vapor recovery or disposal system capable of
                               processing such vapors so as to prevent their
                               emission into the atmosphere.

                        IV.B.2.a.(i)(C)      Control devices shall meet the
                               applicable requirements, including recordkeeping, of
                               Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b.,
                               c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.



                                                                                      17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                     IV.B.2.a.(i)(D)      The applicable EPA reference methods
                            1 through 4, and 25, of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23,
                            2021) shall be used to determine the efficiency of
                            control devices.

                     IV.B.2.a.(i)(E)       The owner or operator shall maintain
                            records for at least two years of the type, average
                            monthly storage temperature, and true vapor pressure
                            of all petroleum liquids stored in tanks not equipped
                            with an internal floating roof or cover or other control
                            pursuant to Regulation Number 24, Sections
                            IV.B.2.a.(i)(A) or IV.B.2.a.(i)(B) or Part A, Section II.D.

              IV.B.2.a.(ii) No owner or operator of a fixed-roof tank equipped
                     with an internal floating roof or cover shall permit the use of
                     such tank unless:

                     IV.B.2.a.(ii)(A)     The tank is maintained such that there
                            are no visible holes, tears, or other openings in the
                            seal or any seal fabric or materials; and

                     IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)    All openings, except stub drains, are
                            equipped with covers, lids, or seals such that:

                            IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(1) The cover, lid, or seal is in the
                                   closed position at all times except when in
                                   actual use;

                            IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(2) Automatic bleeder vents are
                                   closed at all times except when the roof is
                                   floated off or landed on the roof leg supports;
                                   and

                            IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(3) Rim vents, if provided, are set to
                                   open when the roof is being floated off the roof
                                   leg supports or at the manufacturer's
                                   recommended setting.

              IV.B.2.a.(iii) The operator of a fixed-roof tank equipped with an
                     internal floating roof shall:

                     IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A)    Perform a routine inspection through the
                            tank roof hatches at least once every six months;

                            IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A)(1) During the routine inspection, the
                                   operator shall measure for detectable vapor
                                   loss inside the hatch. Detectable vapor loss




                                                                                    18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                                     means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000
                                     ppm, using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer.

                       IV.B.2.a.(iii)(B)      Perform a complete inspection of the
                              cover and seal whenever the tank is out of service,
                              whenever the routine inspection required in Section
                              IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A) reveals detectable vapor loss, and at
                              least once every ten years, and shall notify the
                              Division in writing before such an inspection.

                       IV.B.2.a.(iii)(C)    Ensure during inspections that there are
                              no visible holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or
                              any seal fabric or materials; that the cover is floating
                              uniformly on or above the liquid surface; that there are
                              no visible defects in the surface of the cover or liquid
                              accumulated on the cover; and that the seal is
                              uniformly in place around the circumference of the
                              cover between the cover and the tank wall. If these
                              items are not met, the owner or operator shall repair
                              the items or empty and remove the storage vessel
                              from service within 45 days. If a failure that is
                              detected during inspections required in this section
                              cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel
                              cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension
                              may be requested from the Division in writing. Such a
                              request must document that alternative storage
                              capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of
                              actions the owner or operator will take that will assure
                              that the items will be repaired or the vessel will be
                              emptied as soon as possible;

                       IV.B.2.a.(iii)(D)     Maintain records for at least two years
                              of the results of all inspections.

         IV.B.2.b.      Above ground storage tanks used for the storage of
                petroleum liquid shall have all external surfaces coated with a
                material which has a reflectivity for solar radiation of 0.7 or more.
                Methods A or B of ASTM E424 shall be used to determine
                reflectivity. Alternatively, any untinted white paint may be used
                which is specified by the manufacturer for such use.

                This provision shall not apply to written symbols or logograms
                applied to the external surface of the container for purposes of
                identification provided such symbols do not cover more than 20% of
                the exposed top and side surface area of the container or more
                than 18.6 square meters (200 square feet), whichever is less.




                                                                                        19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


         IV.B.2.c.     Seals on External Floating Roof Tanks

                IV.B.2.c.(i)   General Provisions

                       IV.B.2.c.(i)(A)       Applicability

                       This section applies to all petroleum liquid storage vessels
                       equipped with external floating roofs, having capacities
                       greater than 150,000 liters (40,000 gallons) that are located
                       in ozone nonattainment areas.

                       IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)       Exemptions

                               IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1)   Total Exemption

                               The following categories of EFR tanks are exempt
                               from the requirement of Section IV.B.2.c., except for
                               the applicable recordkeeping requirements of Section
                               IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C).

                                      IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1)(a) EFR tanks which store any
                                             material whose true vapor pressure as
                                             stored never exceeds 67 torr (1.3 psia).

                                      IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1)(b) Tanks less than 1,600,000
                                             liters (10,000 barrels) which are used to
                                             store crude oil and condensate prior to
                                             custody transfer.

                               IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)   Limited Exemptions

                               The following are exempt from both secondary seal
                               and secondary seal inspection requirements but shall
                               meet the equipment/procedure provisions in Section
                               IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1), the semi-annual inspection
                               provisions of Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B), and the record
                               keeping provisions of Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C).

                                      IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a) Those tanks storing
                                             petroleum liquid between 67 and 207
                                             torr (1.3 to 4.0 psia) maximum true
                                             vapor pressure (as stored) which are of
                                             welded construction and which have
                                             one of the following primary seals:

                                             IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(I)    metallic shoe
                                                    seal




                                                                                    20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                                             IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(II)   liquid
                                                    mounted, resilient seal

                                             IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(III)   liquid
                                                    mounted, liquid filled seal

                                     IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(b) Any tank storing waxy,
                                            heavy-pour crude oil.

              IV.B.2.c.(ii)   General Requirements

                     IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)    An operator of an EFR tank storing
                            petroleum liquids with true vapor pressure (as stored)
                            above 67 torr (1.3 psia) shall equip the tank as follows
                            and observe the following procedures:

                              IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)   Equipment

                                     IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(a) Drains: roof drains which
                                            are designed to empty directly into the
                                            stored product shall be provided with
                                            slotted-membrane fabric covers or
                                            equivalent covers which cover at least
                                            90 percent of the area of the opening.

                                     IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b) Openings: except for
                                            automatic bleeder vents, rim space
                                            vents, and leg sleeves, all openings
                                            shall be equipped with:

                                             IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b)(I)    Projections
                                                    into the tank which remain below
                                                    the liquid surface at all times; and

                                             IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b)(II)    Covers,
                                                    seals, or lids.

                              IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)   Procedures

                                     IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(a) Covers, seals and lids
                                            shall be kept closed except when the
                                            openings are in actual use.

                                     IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(b) Automatic bleeder vents
                                            shall be kept closed at all times except
                                            when the roof is floated off or landed on
                                            roof leg supports.




                                                                                     21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                                  IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(c) Rim vents shall be set to
                                         open at the manufacturer's
                                         recommended setting or, alternatively,
                                         only when the roof is being floated off
                                         the leg supports.

                   IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)      Inspections

                   The operator of an EFR tank subject to this Section IV.B.2.c.
                   shall:

                          IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(1) Perform routine inspections at
                                 least once every six months in order to ensure
                                 compliance with Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2). The
                                 inspections shall include a visual inspection of
                                 the secondary seal gap if equipped with a
                                 secondary seal.

                          IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2) Ensure that all seal closure
                                 devices meet the following requirements:

                                  IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2)(a) There are no visible holes,
                                         tears, or other openings in the seal(s) or
                                         seal fabric; and

                                  IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2)(b) The seal(s) are intact and
                                         uniformly in place around the
                                         circumference of the floating roof and
                                         the tank wall.

                   IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)      Records

                          IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1)   Operators shall:

                                  IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1)(a) Maintain records of the
                                         average monthly storage temperature,
                                         the Reid vapor pressure of the liquid
                                         and the type of liquid stored for all EFR
                                         tanks lacking secondary seals and
                                         receiving petroleum liquids with a true
                                         vapor pressure of 1.0 psi (7.0kPa) or
                                         greater; and

                                  IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1)(b) Maintain records of the
                                         results of the inspections required
                                         herein.




                                                                                   22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                               IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(2)  Copies of all records specified by
                                      this Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C) shall be retained by
                                      the operator for a minimum of two years after
                                      the date on which the record was made.

                 IV.B.2.c.(iii) Secondary Seal Requirements

                        IV.B.2.c.(iii)(A)     General

                        No owner or operator of an EFR tank (storing petroleum
                        liquids) not specifically exempted in Section IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)
                        shall store that petroleum liquid unless such vessel is
                        equipped with a continuous secondary seal extending from
                        the rim of the floating roof to the tank wall (i.e., a rim-
                        mounted secondary seal).

                        IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)     Vapor-Mounted Seals

                        For EFR tanks required to have a secondary seal and which
                        have a vapor-mounted primary seal:

                               IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(1) An annual inspection shall be
                                      made of the total gap area between the
                                      secondary seal and the wall of the tank in
                                      accordance with the method in
                                      IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3).

                               IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(2) This total gap area shall not
                                      exceed 21.2 cm2/meter diameter (1.0 in2/ft.
                                      diameter).

                               IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3)   Method to determine gap area:

                                       IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3)(a) Physically measure the
                                              length and width of all gaps around the
                                              entire circumference of the secondary
                                              seal in each place where a 0.32 cm (1/8
                                              in.) uniform diameter probe passes
                                              freely (without forcing or binding against
                                              the seal) between the seal and the tank
                                              wall; and,

                                       IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3)(b) Sum the area of the
                                              individual gaps.

    IV.B.3.      Storage of petroleum liquid in tanks of or less than 151,412 liters
           (40,000 gallons) capacity.




                                                                                       23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


         IV.B.3.a.      Tanks or containers used to store liquids with true vapor
                pressure at 20°C of less than 78 torr (1.5 psia) or greater than 570
                torr (11.0 psia) at 20°C are exempt from the provisions of this
                Section IV.B.3.

         IV.B.3.b.      The owner or operator of storage tanks at a gasoline
                dispensing facility (service station) or other facility not addressed in
                Sections IV.C.2. or IV.C.3., which receives and stores petroleum
                liquid, shall not allow the transfer of petroleum liquid from any
                delivery vessel into any tank unless the tank is equipped with a
                submerged fill pipe and all vapors displaced from the storage tank
                are transferred to the delivery vessel being unloaded using a
                properly maintained, functioning, and leak-tight vapor collection
                system, as in accordance with applicable provisions of Appendix B
                and Section VII., if the tank:

                IV.B.3.b.(i) Has a rated manufacturer's capacity of 2,082 liters
                       (550 gallons) or more and was installed after November 7,
                       1973, (except for storage tanks below 550-gallon capacity
                       used exclusively for agricultural use; however, these must
                       have a submerged fill pipe), or

                IV.B.3.b.(ii) Has a rated manufacturer's capacity of 7,571 liters
                       (2,000 gallons) or more and was installed before November
                       7, 1973.

         IV.B.3.c.     Tanks equipped with a submerged fill pipe shall meet the
                specifications of Appendix B.

         IV.B.3.d.     The owner or operator of storage tanks at a gasoline
                dispensing facility must install and operate one or more of the
                following

                IV.B.3.d.(i) A vapor collection system designed and operated in
                       accordance with a vapor-tight line from the storage tank to
                       delivery vessel.

                IV.B.3.d.(ii) A refrigerator-condensation system or equivalent
                       designed to recover at least 90 percent by weight of the
                       organic compounds in the displaced vapor.

         IV.B.3.e.    The owner or operator shall ensure that operating
                procedures are used so that gasoline cannot be transferred into the
                tank unless the vapor collection system is installed and operated to
                ensure the system is leak-tight during gasoline transfer.

         IV.B.3.f.   The vapor collection system shall meet the specifications of
                Appendix B and applicable requirements of Section VII.



                                                                                      24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


             IV.B.3.g.     Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements,
                    including recordkeeping, of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections
                    I.A.3.a., b., c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

             IV.B.3.h.      The applicable EPA reference methods 1 through 4, and 25,
                    of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021) shall be used to determine the
                    efficiency of control devices.

IV.C. Transfer of Petroleum Liquid

      IV.C.1.       Exemptions

      Transfer operations involving petroleum liquid with true vapor pressures at 20°C
      of less than 78 torr (1.5 psia) or greater than 570 torr (11.0 psia) shall be exempt
      from the provisions of this Section IV.C.

      IV.C.2.       Loading Facilities Classified as Terminals

             IV.C.2.a.      A terminal is defined as a petroleum liquid storage and
                    distribution facility that has an average daily throughput of more
                    than 76,000 liters of gasoline (20,000 gallons), which is loaded
                    directly into transport vehicles. A rolling, 30-day average of
                    throughput shall be used to determine the applicability of this
                    Section IV.C.2.

             IV.C.2.b.      The owner or operator of a terminal subject to this section
                    shall equip the terminal with proper loading equipment and shall
                    follow the loading procedures listed:

                    IV.C.2.b.(i) Install dry-break loading couplings to prevent
                           petroleum liquid loss during uncoupling from vehicles.

                    IV.C.2.b.(ii) Install a vapor collection and disposal system which
                           gathers vapor transferred from vehicles being loaded. The
                           system shall include devices to prevent the release of vapor
                           from vapor recovery hoses not in use.

                    IV.C.2.b.(iii) Use operating procedures to ensure that petroleum
                           liquid cannot be transferred unless the vapor collection
                           equipment is in use.

                    IV.C.2.b.(iv) Provide for the prevention of overfilling of transport
                           vehicles with loading pump shut-offs, set stop meters, or
                           comparable equipment.

                    IV.C.2.b.(v) Operate all recovery and disposal equipment at a
                           back pressure less than the pressure relief valve setting of
                           transport vehicles.



                                                                                           25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                 IV.C.2.b.(vi) Prevent the release of petroleum liquid on the ground
                        from transport vehicles. Provision shall be made to remove
                        any undelivered petroleum liquid with closed drainage
                        devices.

                 IV.C.2.b.(vii) Maintain and operate final recovery and disposal
                        equipment or control devices so as to emit no more than 80
                        milligrams of volatile organic compounds per liter of gasoline
                        being loaded. Such disposal devices shall be approved by
                        the Division.

                 IV.C.2.b.(viii) Prevent loading of petroleum liquid into transport
                        vehicles which do not have valid leak-tight test certification
                        as required in Section IV.D.

                 IV.C.2.b.(ix) Follow all control procedures to prevent leaks as
                        specified in Section VII.

          IV.C.2.c.     Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements,
                 including recordkeeping of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections
                 I.A.3.a., b., c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

          IV.C.2.d.      The applicable methods of 40 CFR 60.503 (December 19,
                 2003), or EPA reference methods 1 through 4, 25A, and 25B of 40
                 CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021) shall be used to determine the
                 efficiency of control devices.

          IV.C.2.e.     The method set forth in Appendix A of "Control of
                 Hydrocarbons from Tank Truck Gasoline Loading Terminals"
                 October 1977, EPA-450/2-77-026 shall be used to test emission
                 points other than control devices.

    IV.C.3.      Loading Facilities Classified as Bulk Plants

          IV.C.3.a.      A bulk plant is defined as a petroleum liquid storage and
                 distribution facility that has an average daily throughput of 76,000
                 liters of gasoline (20,000 gallons) or less, which is loaded directly
                 into transport trucks. (As used herein, "bulk plant" does not include
                 service stations nor separate operations within petroleum liquid
                 distribution facilities which pump only into fuel tanks fueling motor
                 vehicles. Both such operations are regulated by Section IV.B.3.). A
                 rolling 30-day average of throughput shall be used to determine the
                 applicability of this regulation.

          IV.C.3.b.     The owner or operator of a bulk storage plant subject to this
                 section shall install a vapor balance system to return vapors to the
                 incoming transport trucks during the filling of tanks controlled under




                                                                                         26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                 Section IV.B.3. The vapor balance system must be designed and
                 operated in accord with the provisions of Appendix C.)

          IV.C.3.c.     The owner or operator of a bulk plant which serves storage
                 tanks which are required to collect and recover vapor as prescribed
                 in Section IV.B.3. shall:

                 IV.C.3.c.(i) Install and operate vapor collection and return
                        equipment on any transport vehicles used to deliver to
                        controlled tanks, and

                 IV.C.3.c.(ii) Install and operate vapor collection and return
                        equipment at loading facilities to collect vapors during
                        loading of tank compartments of outbound transport trucks
                        and return these vapors to the bulk plant storage tanks,
                        using a vapor balance system.

                 IV.C.3.c.(iii) Assure that transport trucks and loading facilities
                        conform to the applicable provisions of Sections IV.C.2. and
                        IV.C.4.

          IV.C.3.d.     The owner or operator of a bulk plant which serves only
                 storage tanks exempted from the provisions of Section IV.B.3.b. by
                 reason of their small size or location in an attainment area shall
                 load outbound transport trucks using equipment that provides for
                 top loading of the petroleum liquid into the vehicle tank
                 compartments through an extended fill tube which reaches within
                 15.24 cm (6 in.) of the bottom of the tank compartment.

          IV.C.3.e.     The owner or operator of a bulk plant subject to this section
                 shall ensure that petroleum liquid cannot be transferred unless the
                 vapor collection equipment is in use.

          IV.C.3.f.      The owner or operator of a bulk plant subject to this section
                 shall follow all procedures to prevent leaks as specified in Section
                 VII.

    IV.C.4.      Transport Vehicles

          IV.C.4.a.     Rail cars shall be loaded only at facilities which allow for the
                 following:

                 IV.C.4.a.(i) A submerged fill pipe which reaches within 15.24 cm
                        (6 in.) of the bottom of the tank.

                 IV.C.4.a.(ii) Vapor collection and/or disposal equipment
                        designated and operated to recover vapors displaced during
                        the loading of the rail car.



                                                                                      27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                   IV.C.4.a.(iii) A vapor-tight seal around the tank car hatch and the
                          loading equipment.

            IV.C.4.b.     The owner or operator of petroleum transport trucks which
                   serve locations required to be equipped with vapor recovery
                   equipment shall load only at facilities capable of disposing of
                   collected vapors. The owner or operator shall assure that such
                   vehicles possess the proper equipment and that work practices are
                   followed so that:

                   IV.C.4.b.(i) Dry-break loading and unloading nozzles are used
                          and are compatible with those required at loading facilities.

                   IV.C.4.b.(ii) Vapor recovery hoses are connected at all times
                          during unloading or loading of petroleum distillate.

                   IV.C.4.b.(iii) Transport trailers and vehicle tanks are operated and
                          maintained to prevent detectable hydrocarbon vapor loss
                          during loading, transport and delivery.

                   IV.C.4.b.(iv) Compartment dome lids are closed and locked during
                          transfers of petroleum liquid. Such lids may be opened for
                          the purpose of certifying the accuracy of a delivery only prior
                          to and after such delivery.

                   IV.C.4.b.(v) Hoses, couplings, and valves are maintained to
                          prevent dripping, leaking, or other liquid or vapor loss during
                          loading or unloading.

IV.D. Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Gasoline Transport Trucks

      IV.D.1.      General Provisions

            IV.D.1.a.     Applicability

            This section is applicable to all gasoline transport trucks equipped for
            gasoline vapor collection which receive or dispense gasoline at terminals,
            bulk plants, or gasoline dispensing facilities located in the nonattainment
            areas.

            IV.D.1.b.     Definitions

            For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

                   IV.D.1.b.(i) "Gasoline Transport Truck" means a tank truck or
                          tank trailer equipped with a storage tank and used for the
                          transport of gasoline from sources of supply to stationary




                                                                                       28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                        storage tanks of gasoline dispensing facilities (e.g., service
                        stations), bulk gasoline plants, or gasoline terminals.

                 IV.D.1.b.(ii) "Vapor Collection System" means a vapor transport
                        system which uses direct displacement by the gasoline
                        being transferred to force vapors from the vessel being
                        loaded into a vessel being unloaded or into a vapor holding
                        tank.

    IV.D.2.      Provisions for Specific Processes

          IV.D.2.a.      No terminal operator, when monitoring the gasoline loading
                 operation and no owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck
                 shall allow a gasoline transport truck subject to this Section IV.D. to
                 be filled with a VOC with Reid Vapor Pressure of 4.0 or greater
                 unless the gasoline tank truck:

                 IV.D.2.a.(i) Is tested annually according to the test procedure in
                        EPA Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8) (October
                        17, 2000). Except as provided in Section IV.D.2.c., testing
                        must be completed prior to the onset of the summer ozone
                        season (test October through April). In addition, a visual
                        inspection, as detailed in Section IV.D.3.b. must be
                        performed at least once every six months.

                        IV.D.2.a.(i)(A)      The test must be conducted using a
                               time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5
                               minutes.

                        IV.D.2.a.(i)(B)     The initial pressure (Pi) for the pressure
                               test must be 460 mm H2O (18 in. H2O), gauge.

                        IV.D.2.a.(i)(C)     The initial vacuum (Vi) for the vacuum
                               test must be 150 mm H2O (6 in. H2O), gauge.

                        IV.D.2.a.(i)(D)   The maximum allowable pressure and
                               vacuum changes must not exceed the values in Table
                               1.

                        IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)     After completing the tests under
                               Sections IV.D.2.a.(i)(A) through (D), the tank’s internal
                               vapor valve must be pressure tested.

                               IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(1)  Use the procedures in EPA
                                      Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8)
                                      (October 17, 2000) to repressurize the tank to
                                      460 mm H2O (18 in. H2O), gauge.




                                                                                     29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                              IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(2)   Close the tank’s internal vapor
                                     valve(s), thereby isolating the vapor return line
                                     and manifold from the tank.

                              IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(3)    Relieve the pressure in the vapor
                                     return line to atmospheric pressure, then reseal
                                     the line.

                              IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(4)   After 5 minutes, record the gauge
                                     pressure in the vapor return line and manifold.
                                     The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure
                                     increase is 130 mm H2O (5 in. H2O).

          Table 1 - Allowable Cargo Tank Test Pressure or Vacuum Change

          Cargo tank or                 Annual certification-       Allowable pressure
          compartment capacity,         allowable pressure or       change in 5 minutes
          liters (gal)                  vacuum change in 5          at any time, mm
                                        minutes, mm H2O (in.        H2O (in. H2O)
                                        H2O)

          9,464 or more (2,500 or       25 (1.0)                    64 (2.5)
          more)

          9,463 to 5,678 (2,499 to      38 (1.5)                    76 (3.0)
          1,500)

          5,679 to 3,785 (1,499 to      51 (2.0)                    89 (3.5)
          1,000)

          3,782 or less (999 or less)   64 (2.5)                    102 (4.0)

                IV.D.2.a.(ii) Passes a retest within twenty (20) days if it does not
                       meet the criteria of Section IV.D.2.a.(i).

         IV.D.2.b.     Monitoring

                IV.D.2.b.(i) The Division may, at any time, monitor a gasoline
                       tank truck vapor collection system to confirm continued
                       compliance with Section IV.D.2.a.

                IV.D.2.b.(ii) Within fifteen (15) days after an exceedance is
                       detected a tank shall pass a pressure/vacuum test per EPA
                       Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8 (October 17,
                       2000)).

         IV.D.2.c.     Alternative Testing Schedule




                                                                                    30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


              IV.D.2.c.(i) Beginning February 14, 2023, the testing required in
                     Section IV.D.2.a. may be completed during the months May
                     through September if the testing facility controls the purged
                     vapors from all gasoline transport trucks tested or purged for
                     other reasons (e.g., maintenance, repair) at the facility by
                     routing emissions to and operating air pollution control
                     equipment that has a VOC control efficiency of at least 95%.

                    IV.D.2.c.(i)(A)     Emission controls must be utilized on all
                           vessels purged throughout the entire calendar year.

                    IV.D.2.c.(i)(B)     If a combustion device is used, it must
                           have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98%.

                    IV.D.2.c.(i)(C)      All combustion devices used to control
                           emissions must be equipped with and operate an
                           auto-igniter.

                    IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)       Weekly visual inspections

                           IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(1)   Inspection or monitoring of each
                                  combustion device to ensure that it is
                                  operating, including that the pilot light is lit and
                                  the auto-igniter is properly functioning.

                           IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(2)   Inspection or monitoring of each
                                  combustion device to ensure that the valves for
                                  the piping of gas to the pilot light are open and
                                  functioning properly.

                           IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(3)    Inspection or monitoring of each
                                  combustion device to ensure the burner tray is
                                  not visibly clogged.

                           IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(4)   Inspection of each combustion
                                  device for the presence or absence of smoke.
                                  If smoke is observed, either the equipment
                                  must be immediately shut-in to investigate the
                                  potential cause for smoke and perform repairs,
                                  as necessary, or EPA Method 22 must be
                                  conducted to determine whether visible
                                  emissions are present for a period of at least
                                  one (1) minute in fifteen (15) minutes.

                    IV.D.2.c.(i)(E)       Enclosed combustion devices must be
                           performance tested every five (5) years, beginning
                           five (5) years after the date the combustion device




                                                                                    31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                               commenced operation or the date of the previous
                               performance test.

                 IV.D.2.c.(ii) Recordkeeping. The testing facility must maintain
                        records for a period of five (5) years and make them
                        available to the Division upon request.

                        IV.D.2.c.(ii)(A)     Records of gasoline transport truck
                               vapor purging events including the date and duration
                               of the purging event and the reason for the vapor
                               purging (e.g., testing, maintenance, repair).

                        IV.D.2.c.(ii)(B)     Records of the inspections required in
                               Section IV.D.2.c.(i)(C) including the time and date of
                               each inspection, a description of any problems
                               observed, a description and date of any corrective
                               action(s) taken, and name of employee or third party
                               performing corrective action(s).

                        IV.D.2.c.(ii)(C)  Records of the date and result of any
                               EPA Method 22 test or investigation.

                        IV.D.2.c.(ii)(D)      Records of performance tests including
                               the date of the test, a copy of the test protocol
                               followed, documentation of the methods and results of
                               the test, and the date and description of any actions
                               taken in response to a failed test.

    IV.D.3.      Testing and Monitoring

          IV.D.3.a.      The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck shall at
                 their own expense, demonstrate compliance with Section IV.D.2, by
                 methods of EPA Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8)
                 (October 17, 2000). All tests shall be made by, or under the
                 direction of, a person qualified by training and/or experience in the
                 field of air pollution testing or gasoline transport truck maintenance.

          IV.D.3.b.     The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck must
                 conduct a visual inspection of the gasoline transport truck at least
                 once every six months. The entire tank, including domes, dome
                 vents, cargo tank, piping, hose connections, hoses and delivery
                 elbows, must be inspected for wear, damage, or misadjustment that
                 could be a potential leak source. Inspect all rubber fittings except
                 those in piping which are not accessible. Any part found to be
                 defective must be adjusted, repaired, or replaced as necessary.

    IV.D.4.      Recordkeeping and Reporting




                                                                                     32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


         IV.D.4.a.      The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck subject
                to this Section IV.D. shall maintain records of all certification testing
                and repairs. The records shall identify the gasoline transport truck,
                the date of the test or repairs and, if applicable, the type of repair
                and the date of retest. The written record shall include entries of
                any pre-test repairs, adjustments, or modifications. These shall also
                include the part name, number, and vendor name of any part
                removed and of any part installed. The records shall be maintained
                in legible, readily available form for at least two (2) years after the
                date the testing or repair was completed and shall be made
                available to the Division for inspection upon request.

         IV.D.4.b.     The records of certification tests required by Section
                IV.D.2.a. must, as a minimum, contain all of the following entries:

                IV.D.4.b.(i) The gasoline transport truck owner’s name and
                       address;

                IV.D.4.b.(ii) The gasoline transport truck/tank identification
                       number;

                IV.D.4.b.(iii) The nature of repair work and when performed in
                       relation to vapor tightness testing.

                IV.D.4.b.(iv) The following data for each test:

                       IV.D.4.b.(iv)(A)      Test pressure.

                       IV.D.4.b.(iv)(B)      Pressure or vacuum change, mm of
                              water.

                       IV.D.4.b.(iv)(C)      Time period of test.

                       IV.D.4.b.(iv)(D)      Number of leaks found with instrument.

                       IV.D.4.b.(iv)(E)      Leak definition.

                IV.D.4.b.(v) The size of each of the compartments within the tank
                       and whether such compartment was manifolded or was
                       tested separately during pressure and vacuum tests.

                IV.D.4.b.(vi) At the top of each report page shall be the company
                       name and the date and location of the test results recorded
                       on that page.

                IV.D.4.b.(vii) Name and title of the person conducting the test.




                                                                                      33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                     IV.D.4.b.(viii) For the vapor valve test required in Section
                            IV.D.2.a.(ii)(A), the initial test pressure and time of reading.

              IV.D.4.c.     The records of the visual inspections required by Section
                     IV.D.3.b.

              IV.D.4.d.      The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck subject
                     to this regulation must annually certify to the Division that the
                     gasoline transport truck has been tested by the applicable
                     method(s) referenced in Section IV.D.3. The certification must
                     include:

                     IV.D.4.d.(i) The name and address of the company and the name
                            and telephone number of responsible company
                            representative over whose signature the certification is
                            submitted; and,

                     IV.D.4.d.(ii) A copy of the information recorded to comply with
                            Section IV.D.4.b.

              IV.D.4.e.      The records of certification tests must be kept with the tank
                     or at the transport company office at all times and must be shown
                     to Division personnel upon their request. Copies of all records and
                     reports required by the provisions of this Section IV.D. must be
                     made available to the Division upon oral or written request.

V.     Crude Oil

V.A.   General Exemptions

       V.A.1. Storage tanks of 151,412 liters (40,000 gallons) or less used to store
              crude oil is exempt from the provisions of this section.

       V.A.2. Storage tanks with capacities of less than 1,590 cubic meters (10,000
              barrels) used to store crude oil and condensate prior to lease custody
              transfer are exempt from the provisions of Regulation Number 24.

V.B.   Equipment

Pumps and compressors handling crude oil shall be subject to the provisions of Section
IV.A.

V.C.   Storage

Except as provided in Section V.A.2., crude oil stored in tanks greater than 151,412
liters (40,000 gallons) shall be subject to the provisions of Sections IV.B.1.b. and IV.B.2.




                                                                                           34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


VI.   Petroleum Processing and Refining

VI.A. Wastewater (Oil/Water) Separators

      VI.A.1.      Definitions

            VI.A.1.a.    "Forebays" mean the primary sections of a wastewater
                   separator.

            VI.A.1.b.     "Wastewater (oil/water) separator" means any device or
                   piece of equipment which utilizes the difference in density between
                   oil and water to remove oil and associated chemicals from water, or
                   any device, such as a flocculation tank, clarifier, etc., which
                   removes petroleum derived compounds from wastewater.

      VI.A.2.       The owner or operator of any wastewater (oil/water) separators at a
             petroleum refinery shall:

            VI.A.2.a.    Equip the forebays and separator sections of the wastewater
                   separators with one or more of the following emission control
                   devices, ensuring that such device is properly installed, in good
                   working order and properly maintained:

                   VI.A.2.a.(i) A solid cover with all openings sealed and the liquid
                          contents totally enclosed.

                   VI.A.2.a.(ii) A pontoon-type or double-deck type floating roof, or
                          internal floating cover. The floating roof or cover must rest on
                          the surface of the liquid contents and be equipped with a
                          closure seal or seals to close the space between the edge of
                          the floating roof (or cover) and the wall(s) of the
                          compartment.

                   VI.A.2.a.(iii) A vapor recovery system consisting of a vapor
                          gathering device capable of collecting the volatile organic
                          compound vapors discharged and a vapor disposal device
                          capable of processing such volatile organic vapors so as to
                          prevent their emission into the atmosphere.

                          VI.A.2.a.(iii)(A)    Control devices shall meet the
                                 applicable requirements, including recordkeeping, of
                                 Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b.,
                                 c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

                          VI.A.2.a.(iii)(B)    The applicable EPA reference methods
                                 1 through 4, and 25, of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23,
                                 2021) shall be used to determine the efficiency of
                                 control devices.



                                                                                        35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


            VI.A.2.b.      Equip all openings in covers, separators, and forebays with
                   lids or seals such that the lids or seals are in the closed position at
                   all times except when in actual use. Access for gauging and
                   sampling shall be minimized.

VI.B. Emissions from Petroleum Refineries

      VI.B.1.      Definitions

            VI.B.1.a.    "Firebox" means the chamber or compartment of a boiler or
                   furnace in which materials are burned but does not mean the
                   combustion chamber of an incinerator.

            VI.B.1.b.    "Turnaround" means the procedure of shutting a refinery unit
                   down after a run to do necessary maintenance and repair work and
                   then putting the unit back on stream.

      VI.B.2.      Process unit turnarounds

      The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery shall develop and submit to the
      Division for approval a detailed procedure for minimization of volatile organic
      compound emissions during process unit turnaround. As a minimum, the
      procedure shall provide for:

            VI.B.2.a.     Depressurization venting of the process unit or vessel to a
                   vapor recovery system, or to a flare or firebox which assures at
                   least 90% combustion efficiency;

            VI.B.2.b.      No emission of volatile organic compounds from a process
                   unit or vessel until its internal pressure is 17.2 psia or less; and

            VI.B.2.c.      Recordkeeping of the following items. Records shall be kept
                   for at least two years and shall be made available to the Division for
                   review upon request.

                   VI.B.2.c.(i)   Every date that each process unit is shut down,

                   VI.B.2.c.(ii) The approximate vessel volatile organic compound
                          concentration when the volatile organic compounds were
                          first discharged to the atmosphere, and

                   VI.B.2.c.(iii) The approximate total quantity of volatile organic
                          compounds emitted to the atmosphere.

      VI.B.3.      Venting of blowdown systems and safety pressure relief valves




                                                                                        36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


       All blowdown systems, process equipment vents, and pressure relief valves shall
       be vented to a vapor recovery system, or to a flare or firebox which assures at
       least 90% combustion efficiency.

       VI.B.4.       Vacuum-Producing Systems

              VI.B.4.a.     The owner or operator of any vacuum-producing system at a
                     petroleum refinery shall not permit the emission of any
                     noncondensible volatile organic compounds from the condensers,
                     hot wells or accumulators of the system. This emission limit shall be
                     achieved by:

                     VI.B.4.a.(i) Venting the noncondensible vapors to a flare or other
                            combustion device, or,

                     VI.B.4.a.(ii) Compressing the vapors and adding them to the
                            refinery fuel gas.

       VI.B.5.      All sampling, testing, and measuring ports, hatches, and access
              openings shall be kept in a closed sealed position except during actual
              sampling or access.

       VI.B.6.       Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements, including
              recordkeeping, of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b., c.,
              and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

       VI.B.7.       The applicable EPA reference methods 1 through 4, and 25, of 40
              CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021), shall be used to determine the efficiency of
              control devices.

VI.C. Petroleum Refinery Equipment Leaks

VI.C.1.       Definitions

For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

              VI.C.1.a.    "Accessible Component" means a component which can be
                     reached, if necessary, by safe and proper use of portable ladders
                     such as are acceptable to OSHA, as well as by built-in ladders and
                     walkways. "Accessible" also includes components which can be
                     reached by the safe use of an extension on the monitoring probe.

              VI.C.1.b.     "Component" means any piece of equipment, which has the
                     potential to leak volatile organic compounds when tested in the
                     manner described in Section VI.C.3. These sources include, but are
                     not limited to, pumping seals, compressor seals, seal oil degassing
                     vents, pipeline valves, flanges and other connections, pressure




                                                                                        37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                 relief devices, process drains, and open ended pipes. Excluded
                 from these sources are valves which are not externally regulated.

          VI.C.1.c.      "Gaseous Service" means equipment which processes,
                 transfers or contains a volatile organic compound or mixture of
                 volatile organic compounds in the gaseous phase.

          VI.C.1.d.    "In Heavy VOC Liquid Service" means that the piece of
                 equipment is not in gaseous service or in light VOC liquid service.

          VI.C.1.e.     "In Light Liquid VOC Service" Equipment is in light liquid
                 service if the following conditions apply:

                 VI.C.1.e.(i) the true vapor pressure of one or more of the
                        components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20°C. True vapor
                        pressures may be obtained from standard reference texts or
                        may be determined by ASTM D-2879.

                 VI.C.1.e.(ii) the total concentration of the pure components have a
                        true vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20°C, is equal to
                        or greater than 20 percent by weight; and

                 VI.C.1.e.(iii) the fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.

          VI.C.1.f.     "Refinery Unit" means a set of components which are a part
                 of a basic process operation, such as, distillation, hydrotreating,
                 cracking, or reforming of hydrocarbons.

          VI.C.1.g.     "Water Draw" means a routinely used valve or system
                 employing a valve which allows non-VOC material (usually water)
                 to be separated from VOC.

    VI.C.2.      Provisions for Specific Processes

          VI.C.2.a.    The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery complex
                 subject to this regulation must:

                 VI.C.2.a.(i) Develop a monitoring program consistent with the
                        provisions in Section VI.C.3.

                 VI.C.2.a.(ii) Conduct a monitoring program consistent with the
                        provisions in Section VI.C.4.a.

                 VI.C.2.a.(iii) Record all leaking components which have a VOC
                        concentration exceeding 10,000 ppmv when tested
                        according to Section VI.C.3., and place an identifying tag on
                        each component consistent with the provisions in Section
                        VI.C.4.a.(iii).



                                                                                     38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                VI.C.2.a.(iv) (State Only) Beginning June 30, 2027, record all
                       leaking, non-pump components, which have a VOC
                       concentration equal to or exceeding 1,000 ppmv when
                       tested according to Section VI.C.3.a., and place an
                       identifying tag on each component consistent with the
                       provisions in Section VI.C.4.a.(iii).

                VI.C.2.a.(v) (State Only) Beginning June 30, 2028, record all
                       leaking, non-pump components, which have a VOC
                       concentration equal to or exceeding 500 ppmv when tested
                       according to Section VI.C.3.a., and place an identifying tag
                       on each component consistent with the provisions in Section
                       VI.C.4.a.(iii).

                VI.C.2.a.(vi) (State Only) Beginning June 14, 2026, record all
                       leaking pumps, which have a VOC concentration equal to or
                       exceeding 2,000 ppmv when tested according to Section
                       VI.C.3.a., and place an identifying tag on each component
                       consistent with the provisions in Section VI.C.4.a.(iii).

                VI.C.2.a.(vii) Repair and retest leaking components, as defined in
                       Section VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv)
                       through VI.C.2.a.(vi), as soon as possible, but no later than
                       fifteen (15) days after the leak is found, excepting those
                       specified in Sections VI.C.2.a.(viii) and VI.C.2.a.(ix).

                VI.C.2.a.(viii) Identify all leaking components as defined in Section
                       VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv) through
                       VI.C.2.a.(vi), which cannot be repaired until the unit is shut
                       down for turnaround, and repair and retest as in Section
                       VI.C.2.a.(vii) when the unit is back on stream.

                VI.C.2.a.(ix) When a component leak cannot be fixed within fifteen
                       (15) working days solely because parts are not available, the
                       following shall be noted in an “awaiting parts log:”

                       VI.C.2.a.(ix)(A)     component identification and tag
                              number

                       VI.C.2.a.(ix)(B)     date part was ordered

                       VI.C.2.a.(ix)(C)     date part was received

                       VI.C.2.a.(ix)(D)     date repair was made

         VI.C.2.b.    Except for safety pressure relief valves, no owner or
                operator of a petroleum refinery shall install or operate a valve at
                the end of a pipe or line containing volatile organic compounds



                                                                                       39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                unless the pipe or line is sealed with a second valve, a blind flange,
                a plug, or a cap. The sealing device may be removed only when a
                sample is being taken or when the valve is otherwise in use.

          VI.C.2.c.     The Division, at its discretion, may require early unit
                 turnaround based on the number and severity of tagged leaks
                 awaiting turnaround provided:

                VI.C.2.c.(i) The requirement does not exceed reasonable
                       available control technology due to cost per ton of emissions
                       reduction achieved by the early turnaround or other
                       reasonable analysis.

                VI.C.2.c.(ii) The Division provides the owner or operator of a
                       petroleum refinery with written notification at least 180 days
                       before requiring an early turnaround. The owner or operator
                       will have 30 days from the date of the Division's notification
                       to contest the requirement by submitting a demonstration
                       that the requirement is beyond reasonable available control
                       technology. If no demonstration is made, it will be assumed
                       the requirement is reasonable. If a demonstration is
                       submitted by the owner or operator, the Division will either
                       approve the demonstration or disapprove the demonstration
                       with a justification regarding the disapproval within 30 days
                       of the date the demonstration is submitted to the Division.

                VI.C.2.c.(iii) The requirement is not contested by the owner or
                       operator. Should the requirement be contested, the
                       requirement for early unit turnaround will be delayed until
                       180 days after the demonstration discussed in Section
                       VI.C.2.c.(ii) is disapproved by the Division.

          VI.C.2.d.     Piping valves and pressure relief valves in gaseous VOC
                 service shall be marked in some manner that will be readily obvious
                 to both refinery personnel performing monitoring and the Division,
                 to identify them as components which are monitored quarterly.7

    VI.C.3.     Testing and Monitoring Procedures

          VI.C.3.a.     Testing and calibration procedures to determine compliance
                 with this regulation must be consistent with EPA reference method
                 21 of 40 CFR Part 60 (October 7, 2000). The reference compound
                 may be methane or hexane. A leak is defined as a reading of
                 10,000 ppmv of the reference compound.

          VI.C.3.b.    (State Only) Beginning June 30, 2027, a leak identified at a
                 non-pump component is defined as a reading of 1,000 ppmv or
                 greater of the reference compound and beginning June 30, 2028, a



                                                                                     40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                leak identified at a non-pump component is defined as a reading of
                500 ppmv or greater of the reference compound.

          VI.C.3.c.     (State Only) Beginning June 14, 2026, a leak identified at a
                 pump is defined as a reading of 2,000 ppmv or greater of the
                 reference compound.

    VI.C.4.     Monitoring, Recordkeeping, Reporting

          VI.C.4.a.    Monitoring

                VI.C.4.a.(i) The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery subject
                       to this regulation shall conduct a monitoring program
                       consistent with the following provisions:

                       VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)      Monitor yearly by the method referenced
                              in Section VI.C.3., all:

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(1)   Pump seals; and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(2)  Piping valves in light liquid VOC
                                     service; and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(3)   Process drains; and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(4)   Heat-exchanger body flanges;
                                     and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(5)   Other accessible flanges in VOC
                                     service.

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(6)   Components in heavy liquid VOC
                                     service are exempt from requirements of this
                                     Section VI.C.4.a.(i)(A).

                       VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)      Monitor quarterly by the method
                              referenced in Section VI.C.3., all:

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(1)   Compressor seals; and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(2)   Piping valves in gaseous service;
                                     and

                              VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(3)   Pressure relief valves in gaseous
                                     service.

                       VI.C.4.a.(i)(C)     Monitor at least weekly by visual
                              methods all pump seals.




                                                                                  41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                      VI.C.4.a.(i)(D)     Monitor within 24 hours with a VOC
                             detector and make record of any component from
                             which VOC liquids are observed leaking.

                      VI.C.4.a.(i)(E)      Components in heavy liquid VOC
                             service shall be monitored by the method referenced
                             in Section VI.C.3. within five days if evidence of a
                             potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or
                             any other detectable method.

               VI.C.4.a.(ii) Inaccessible valves and flanges must be monitored
                      annually or, as a minimum, at unit shutdown using the
                      procedures of VI.C.2.a.(viii). Pressure relief devices which
                      are connected to an operating flare header or vapor recovery
                      device, storage tank valves, and valves that are not
                      externally regulated are exempt from the monitoring
                      requirements in Section VI.C.4.a.(i).

               VI.C.4.a.(iii) The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery, upon
                      the detection of a leaking component as defined in Section
                      VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv) through
                      VI.C.2.a.(vi), must affix a weatherproof and readily visible
                      tag, bearing an identification number and the date the leak is
                      located, to the leaking component. This tag must remain in
                      place until the leaking component is repaired. In addition, the
                      owner or operator must log the leak (including those leaks
                      immediately repaired), per the requirements of Sections
                      VI.C.4.b.(i) through (iii).

         VI.C.4.b.    Recordkeeping

               VI.C.4.b.(i) The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery must
                      maintain a leaking components monitoring log which must
                      contain at a minimum, the following data:

                      VI.C.4.b.(i)(A)    The name of the process unit where the
                             component is located.

                      VI.C.4.b.(i)(B)       The type of component (e.g., valve,
                             seal).

                      VI.C.4.b.(i)(C)       The tag number of the component.

                      VI.C.4.b.(i)(D)      The date on which a leaking component
                             is discovered.

                      VI.C.4.b.(i)(E)       The date on which a leaking component
                             is repaired.



                                                                                    42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                            VI.C.4.b.(i)(F)      The date and instrument reading found
                                   during the recheck procedure subsequent to repairing
                                   a leaking component.

                            VI.C.4.b.(i)(G)      A record of the calibration of the
                                   monitoring instrument.

                            VI.C.4.b.(i)(H)      Those leaks that cannot be repaired
                                   until turnaround.

                            VI.C.4.b.(i)(I) The total number of components checked and
                                   the total number of components found leaking.

                            VI.C.4.b.(i)(J) The total number of components subject to
                                   Section VI.C.2.a.(viii) which upon retest were still
                                   leaking as defined in Section VI.C.3.

                    VI.C.4.b.(ii) Copies of the monitoring log shall be retained by the
                           owner or operator for a minimum of two (2) years after the
                           date on which the record was made or report prepared.

                    VI.C.4.b.(iii) Copies of the monitoring log shall be made available
                           to the Division upon oral or written request.

             VI.C.4.c.      Reporting

             The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery, upon the completion of
             each yearly and/or quarterly monitoring procedure, shall:

                    VI.C.4.c.(i) Submit a report to the Division by the 15th day of
                           February, May, August, and November that lists all leaking
                           components that were located during the previous three (3)
                           calendar months (quarter), but not repaired within fifteen (15)
                           working days, all leaking components awaiting unit
                           turnaround, the total number of components inspected, and
                           the total number of components found leaking.

                    VI.C.4.c.(ii) Submit a signed statement with the report attesting to
                           the fact that, with the exception to those leaking components
                           listed in Section VI.C.4.b.(i)(H), all monitoring and repairs
                           were performed as stipulated in the monitoring program.

VII. Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Vapor Collection
Systems and Vapor Control Systems Located at Gasoline Terminals, Gasoline
Bulk Plants, and Gasoline Dispensing Facilities

VII.A. General Provisions




                                                                                          43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


      VII.A.1.      Applicability

      This section is applicable to all gasoline terminals, gasoline bulk plants, and
      gasoline dispensing facilities (e.g., service stations) which are located in ozone
      nonattainment areas and which must have a vapor collection system pursuant to
      Section IV. and other applicable rules.

      VII.A.2.      Exemptions

      This section is not applicable to those operations involving transfer of gasoline
      from gasoline dispensing facilities to motor vehicle fuel tanks nor to other
      dispensing operations at such facilities.

      VII.A.3.      Definitions

      For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

             VII.A.3.a.    "Gasoline Dispensing Facility” means any site where
                    gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle fuel tanks from stationary
                    storage tanks, (e.g., service stations, fleet pumps, etc.)

             VII.A.3.b.    "Gasoline Transport Truck” means tank trucks or trailers
                    equipped with a storage tank and used for the transport of gasoline
                    from sources of supply to stationary storage tanks of gasoline
                    dispensing facilities (e.g., service stations), bulk gasoline plants or
                    gasoline terminals.

             VII.A.3.c.    "Vapor Collection System” means a vapor transport system
                    which uses direct displacement by the gasoline being transferred to
                    force vapors from the vessel being loaded into either a vessel being
                    unloaded or a vapor holding tank.

VII.B. Specific Provisions

      VII.B.1.      The operator of a vapor collection system at a facility subject to the
             provisions of this section shall operate the vapor collection system and the
             gasoline loading equipment in a manner that prevents:

             VII.B.1.a.    Gauge pressure from exceeding 33.6 torr (18 inches of H2O)
                    and vacuum from exceeding gauge pressure of minus 11.2 torr
                    (minus 6 inches of H2O) at the point where the vapor return line on
                    the truck connects with the vapor collection line of the facility.

             VII.B.1.b.   A reading equal to or greater than 100 percent of the lower
                    explosive limit (LEL, measured as propane) at 2.5 centimeters from
                    a known or potential leak source when measured by the
                    procedures described in Appendix B of "Control of Organic
                    Compound Leaks from Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection



                                                                                          44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


                     Systems,” December 1978, EPA-450/2-78-051, during loading or
                     unloading operations at gasoline dispensing facilities, bulk plants,
                     and terminals.

              VII.B.1.c.    Avoidable liquid or vapor leaks from the system during
                     loading or unloading operations at gasoline dispensing facilities,
                     bulk plants, and terminals.

              VII.B.1.d.     Division representatives may monitor for excessive back
                     pressure as defined by Section VII.B.1.a. and vapor leakage as is
                     defined by Section VII.B.1.b. or by detection methods incorporating
                     sight, sound, and smell.

       VII.B.2.      Repairs and Modifications

              VII.B.2.a.    The operator shall within fifteen (15) days, repair and retest
                     a vapor collection system that exceeds the pressure limits (Section
                     VII.B.1.a.), excepting that;

              VII.B.2.b.    Should an applicable facility require modification or repairs
                     that will take longer than fifteen (15) days to complete, the operator
                     shall submit to the Division for approval a schedule which includes
                     dates of commencement and completion.

Appendix B Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer to Storage
Tanks

I.     Drop Tube Specifications. Submerged fill is specifically required. The drop tube
       must extend to within 15.24 cm (6 in.) of the tank bottom.

II.    Vapor Hose Return. Vapor return line and any manifold must be minimum 7.6 cm
       (3 in.) ID. All tanks must be provided with individual overfill protection. (Liquid
       must not be allowed in the vent line or vapor recovery line.) Disconnect on liquid
       line should assure that all liquid in the hose is drained into the storage tank. The
       requirements for overfill protection as specified may be waived for existing
       storage tanks when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the appropriate local
       Fire Marshal, and where applicable, the State Oil Inspection Office that the
       installation of overfill protection devices on existing tanks is physically not
       possible.

III.   Size of Vapor Line Connections. For separate vapor lines, nominal three inch
       (7.6 cm) or larger connections must be utilized at the storage tank and truck.
       However, short lengths of 2-inch (5.1 cm) vertical pipe no greater than 91.4 cm (3
       ft.) long are permissible if the fuel delivery rate is less than 400 gallons per
       minute.

       Where concentric (coaxial) connections are utilized, a 45 cm2 (7 sq. in.) area for
       vapor return shall be provided. Four-inch concentric designs are acceptable only



                                                                                          45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


        when using a venturi-shaped outer tube or where normal drop rate of 1,700 liters
        per minute (450 gpm) is reduced by at least 25%. Six-inch (15.24 cm) risers
        should be installed in new stations with concentric connections.

IV.     Type of Liquid Fill Connection. Vapor tight caps are required for the liquid fill
        connection for all systems. A positive closure utilizing a gasket is necessary to
        prevent vapors from being emitted at ground level. Cam-lock closures meet this
        requirement. Dry break closures are preferred.

V.      Tank Truck Inspection. Tank trucks are specifically required to be vapor-tight and
        to have valid leak-tight certification. The visual inspection procedure must be
        conducted at least once every six months to ensure properly operating
        manifolding and relief valves, using the test procedure of Section IV.D.3.b.

VI.     Dry Break on Underground Tank Vapor Riser. Dry-break closures are required to
        assure transfer of displaced vapors to the truck and to prevent ground-level,
        gasoline-vapor emissions caused by failure to connect the vapor return line to the
        underground tanks (closure on riser to mate with opening on hose). These
        devices keep the tank sealed until the hose is connected to the underground
        tank. Concentric couplers without dry-breaks are required to have a dry-break on
        the vapor line connection to the coupler itself, rather than on the rise pipe from
        the storage tank. The liquid fill riser should be provided with a gap having a
        positive closure (threaded or latched).

VII.    Equipment Ensuring Vapor-Hose Connection during Gasoline Deliveries. An
        equipment system aboard the tank truck shall insure (barring deliberate
        tampering) that a vapor return hose is connected from the truck's vapor return
        line to the tank receiving gasoline.

VIII.   Vent Line Restriction Devices. Vent line restriction devices are required. If the
        liquid fill line were attached to the underground tank and the vapor return line
        were disconnected, then dry break closures would seal the vapor return path to
        the truck, forcing all vapors out the vent line. In such instances, a restriction
        device on this vent line greatly reduces fill rate, warning the operator that the
        vapor line is not connected.

        Pressure/vacuum (PV) vent valves installed on the storage tank vent pipes. The
        pressure specifications for PV vent valves shall be: a positive pressure setting of
        2.5 to 6.0 inches of water and a negative pressure setting of 6.0 to 10.0 inches of
        water.

IX.     Fire and Safety Regulations. All new or modified installations must comply in
        their entirety with all code requirements including NFPA, Pamphlet 30 (fiberglass
        is preferred for new manifold lines). For any questions concerning compliance,
        please contact State Oil Inspection or your local Fire Marshal.

X.      State Oil Inspection. Requirements of the State Oil Inspection office make
        accurate measurements of the liquid in the underground tank necessary. Vapor-



                                                                                         46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


      tight gauging devices will be required in all systems designed such that a
      pressure other than atmospheric will be held or maintained in the storage tank.
      The volume of liquid in the tanks maintained at atmospheric pressure may be
      determined with a stick through the submerged drop tube or through a separate
      submerged gauging tube extending to within 15.24 cm (6 in.) of the tank bottom.

Appendix C Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer at Bulk Plants

I.    Storage Tank Requirements:

      A.    Drop Tube Specification: Underground tanks must contain a drop tube that
            extends to within six inches (15.24 cm) of the tank bottom. All top loaded
            above-ground tanks must contain a similar drop tube. Above-ground tanks
            using bottom loading, where the inlet is flush with the tank bottom, must
            meet the submerged fill requirement.

      B.    Size of Vapor Lines from Storage Tanks to Loading Rack: See nomograph
            (Attachment 1). NOTE: Affected sources are free to choose a pipe
            diameter different from the one suggested by the nomograph if sufficient
            justification and documentation is presented.

      C.    Pressure Relief Valves: All pressure relief valves and valve connections
            must be checked periodically for leaks, and be repaired as required. The
            relief valve pressures should be set in accordance with Sections 2-2.5.1
            and 2-2.7.1 inclusive of the current National Fire Protection Agency
            Pamphlet Number 30.

      D.    Liquid Level Check Port: Access for checking liquid level by other than a
            vapor-tight gauging system shall be vapor-tight when not being used.
            Tank level shall be checked prior to filling to avoid overfills.

      E.    Miscellaneous Tank Openings: All other tank openings, e.g., tank
            inspection hatches, must be vapor tight when not being used, and must be
            closed at all times during transfer of fuel.

      F.    Storage Tank Overfill Protection: Except for concentric (coaxial) delivery
            systems, underground tanks must have ball check valves (stainless steel
            ball). Tanks with concentric delivery systems must have Division-approved
            overfill protection, (e.g., cutoff pressure-switch in vent line).

II.   Loading Rack Requirements:

      A.    Loading Specification: A vapor-tight bottom-loading or top-loading system
            using submerged fill with a positive seal, e.g., the Wiggins (tm) system, is
            required. NOTE: Bulk plants delivering solely to exempt accounts are
            required to have submerged fill, but loading need not be vapor-tight.




                                                                                      47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                                  5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


          B.        Dry-Break on Storage Tank Vapor Return Line: A dry-break is required to
                    prevent ground-level gasoline vapor emissions during periods when
                    gasoline transfer is not being made. This device keeps the tank sealed
                    until the vapor return hose is connected.

III.      Tank Truck* Requirements:

          A.        Vapor Return Modification: Tank trucks must be modified to recover
                    vapors during loading and unloading operations. NOTE: Tank trucks
                    making deliveries solely to exempt accounts do not require this
                    modification. However, 97% submerged fill is required when top loading.

          B.        Loading Specifications: Bottom loading or top loading using submerged fill
                    with a positive seal is required for tank trucks modified for vapor recovery.
                    NOTE: When loading a tank truck with this modification without the vapor
                    return hose connected (this is allowed at bulk plants servicing exempt
                    accounts returning without collected vapors in the tank), the requirements
                    of National Fire Protection Agency Pamphlet Number 385, "Loading and
                    Unloading Venting Protection in Tank Vehicles, Section 2219, Paragraph
                    c", must be met.

          C.        Vapor Return Hose Size: A minimum three-inch (7.6 cm) ID vapor return
                    hose is required.

          D.        Tank Truck Inspection: Tank trucks are required to be vapor-tight and
                    have valid leak-tight certification. Periodic visual inspection is necessary to
                    insure properly operating manifolding and relief valves.
* The term "tank truck" is meant to include all trucks with tanks used for the transport of gasoline, such as tank wagons, account
trucks and transport trucks.


PART C              Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.        April 20, 2023

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation
Number 22, the Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts
and sections.

Specific Statutory Authority




                                                                                                                                     48
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission


    The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
    State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such
    as the Commission, to review their rules and consider whether the rule is necessary;
    whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of the agency or with other federal,
    state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain language and is
    easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more
    or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more
    flexibility, reduce regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while
    maintaining its benefits; whether the rule is implemented in an efficient and effective
    manner, including the requirements for the issuance of permits and licenses; whether a
    cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making agency; and whether
    the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state or its
    residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the
    existing rules should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed.

    Purpose

    The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
    Regulation Number 24. The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four
    regulations: Part B became Regulation Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number
    25; Part D remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E became Regulation Number
    26. The upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program provisions
    currently in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing
    sector greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation
    Number 27.

    To assist in tracking the history of the regulatory revisions, associated statements of
    basis and purpose, and restructured location, the Commission provides the following
    tracking table.

 Year of    Date of        Summary of rule(s)         Regulation       Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule       rule              adopted                 7 Section         Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                                    (pre-2019       (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                      numbering)          as of
                                                                         12.2022)

1995       Dec. 21      Clarify substances that       Section II.B.    Part A,          Regulations 7
                        are negligibly reactive                        Section II.B.    and 24-26,
                        VOCs.                                                           Part A

1996       Mar. 21      Revisions related to the      Sections         Part A,          Regulations 7
                        maintenance                   I.A.1.           Sections         and 24-26,
                        demonstration.                through          I.A.1. through   Part A
                                                      I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;
                                                      II.E.            II.E.




                                                                                               49
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)        Regulation       Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                7 Section         Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                                 (pre-2019       (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                   numbering)          as of
                                                                      12.2022)

1996       Nov. 21    Updated NRVOC list.          Section XII.     NA               NA
                      Removed control of VOC
                      emissions from dry
                      cleaning facilities using
                      perchloroethylene.

1998       Oct. 15    Revisions specific to        Section II.F.    NA               Regulation
                      Gates Rubber Company.                                          24-25, Part A

2001       Jan. 11    Correct discrepancies in     Sections         Part B,          Regulation
                      posted versus adopted        III.C.;          Section I.;      24, Part B;
                      provisions.                  IX.L.2.c.(1);    Part C,          Regulation
                                                   X.D.2.           Section I.;      25, Part B
                                                   through          Part C,          (fkna Part C)
                                                   XI.A.3.          Sections II.
                                                                    through III.

2003       Nov. 20    Repealed provisions          Sections         Part A,          Regulations 7
                      establishing a procedure     I.A.2.           Sections         and 24-26,
                      for granting exemptions      through          I.A.1. through   Part A
                      for de minimis sources       I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;
                      and for approving            II.E.            II.E.
                      alternative compliance
                      plans.

2004       Mar. 12    Revisions adopted in         Sections         Part A,          Regulations 7
                      conjunction with the early   I.A.; I.B.;      Section I.A.;    and 24-26,
                      action compact ozone         XII.; XVI.       Part A,          Part A
                      action plan – control of                      Section I.B.;
                      emissions from                                Part D,
                      condensate operation at                       Section I.;
                      oil and gas facilities,                       Part E,
                      emissions from internal                       Section I.
                      combustion engines,
                      emissions from gas
                      processing plants, and
                      emissions from oil and
                      gas operations
                      dehydrators.




                                                                                           50
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of     Summary of rule(s)        Regulation     Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule       rule           adopted                7 Section       Section          Section (as
adoption   adoption                                (pre-2019     (numbering          of 4.2023)
                                                  numbering)        as of
                                                                   12.2022)

2004       Dec. 16    Revisions adopted in      Sections         Part A,           Regulations 7
                      response to EPA           I.A.; II.A.;     Section I.A.;     and 24-26,
                      comments (re practical    XII.; XVI.;      Part A,           Part A
                      enforceability) on the                     Section II.A.;
                      ozone action plan adopted                  Part D,
                      3/2004.                                    Section I.;
                                                                 Part E,
                                                                 Section I.

2006       Dec. 17    Expanding oil and gas       Section XII.   Part D,           Regulation 7,
                      condensate tank emission                   Section I.        Part B (fkna
                      controls.                                                    Part D)

2006       Dec. 17    Reduce emissions from oil Sections         Part A,           Regulation 7,
                      and gas operations and     I.A.1.b.;       Section I.A.;     Part A and
                      natural gas fired engines. XVII.           Part D.,          Part B (fkna
                                                                 Section II. &     Part D);
                                                                 Part E.           Regulation
                                                                 Section I. (for   26, Part A
                                                                 engines)          and Part B
                                                                                   (fkna Part E)




                                                                                         51
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)         Regulation      Regulation 7          Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                 7 Section        Section           Section (as
adoption   adoption                                  (pre-2019      (numbering           of 4.2023)
                                                    numbering)         as of
                                                                      12.2022)

2008       Dec. 12    Expand VOC RACT               Title;          Part A,            Regulation
                      requirements for 100 tpy      Sections I.;    Section I.;        24, Part B;
                      sources and clarify how       II.; VI.        Part A,            Regulation
                      RACT requirements in          through         Section II.;       25, Part B
                      Regulation Numbers 3          XIII.; XVII.;   Part B,            (fkna Part C);
                      and 7 interact in the ozone   XVIII.; and     Sections IV.       Regulation 7,
                      nonattainment area. Make      Appendices      through VI. &      Part B (fkna
                      typographical and             A through F     Part C,            Part D);
                      formatting changes.                           Sections I.        Regulation
                      Revise oil and gas                            through IV. &      26, Part B
                      condensate tank and                           Part D,            (fkna Part E)
                      pneumatic controller                          Section I.;
                      requirements.                                 Part D,
                                                                    Section II.
                                                                    and Part E,
                                                                    Section I. (for
                                                                    engines); Part
                                                                    D, Section III.;
                                                                    Part A,
                                                                    Appendix A. &
                                                                    Part B,
                                                                    Appendices B
                                                                    and C & Part
                                                                    C,
                                                                    Appendices D
                                                                    and E
                                                                    (formerly
                                                                    Appendix F)

2011       Jan. 7     Include engine                Outline;        Part A,            Regulation
                      requirements in the           Sections I.;    Section I.;        26, Part B
                      Regional Haze SIP.            XVII.           Part E,            (fkna Part E)
                                                                    Section I.

2012       Dec. 20    Address EPA comments          Sections II.;   Part A,            Regulation 7,
                      on the June 2009              XII.; XVII.     Section II.;       Part B (fkna
                      submittal. Revise state-                      Part D,            Part D)
                      only requirements for                         Section I.;
                      consistency.                                  Part D,
                                                                    Section II.



                                                                                              52
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)         Regulation      Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                 7 Section        Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                                  (pre-2019      (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                    numbering)         as of
                                                                      12.2022)

2014       Feb. 23    Adopt additional oil and      Sections II.;   Part A,         Regulation 7,
                      gas emission reduction        XVII.; XVIII.   Section II.;    Part B (fkna
                      requirements – auto-                          Part D,         Part D)
                      igniters, expand                              Section II.;
                      condensate tank controls,                     Part D,
                      limit storage tank venting,                   Section III.
                      expand dehydrator
                      control, establish leak
                      detection and repair
                      program, limit venting
                      during well maintenance
                      and liquids unloading,
                      expand pneumatic
                      controller requirements.

2016       Nov. 17    Adopt RACT requirements Sections I.;          Part A,         Regulation
                      for industrial cleaning    X.; XII.; XIII.;   Section I.;     25, Part B
                      solvents, lithographic and XVI.; XIX.         Part C,         (fkna Part C);
                      letterpress printing, and                     Section II.;    Regulation 7,
                      specific major sources.                       Part D,         Part B (fkna
                      Including existing                            Section I.;     Part D);
                      combustion device auto-                       Part C,         Regulation
                      igniter and storage tank                      Section IV.;    26, Part B
                      inspection requirements in                    Part C,         (fkna Part E)
                      the SIP. Adopting major                       Section V.;
                      source combustion                             Part E,
                      equipment combustion                          Section III.
                      process adjustment
                      requirements and
                      incorporate by reference
                      NSPS and NESHAP for
                      specific major sources.




                                                                                           53
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of     Summary of rule(s)       Regulation     Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule           adopted               7 Section       Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                               (pre-2019     (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                 numbering)        as of
                                                                  12.2022)

2017       Nov. 16    Adopt provisions based on Sections II.;   Part A,         Regulation 7,
                      recommendations in        XII.; XVII.;    Section II.;    Part B (fkna
                      EPA’s Oil and Gas Control XVIII.          Part D,         Part D)
                      Techniques Guideline.                     Section I.;
                      Revise state-only                         Part D,
                      requirements for                          Section II.;
                      consistency.                              Part D,
                                                                Section III.

2018       July 19    Adopt requirements for     Sections       Part E,         Regulation
                      existing major source      XVI.; XIX.     Section II.,    26, Part B
                      boilers, turbines,                        Part E,         (fkna Part E)
                      lightweight aggregate                     Section III.
                      kilns, glass melting
                      furnaces, engines.




                                                                                       54
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)         Regulation         Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                 7 Section           Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                                  (pre-2019         (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                    numbering)            as of
                                                                         12.2022)

2018       Nov. 15    Adopt requirements for        Sections I.;       Part A,         Regulation
                      major source breweries        II.; VI.; VIII.;   Section I.;     24, Part B;
                      and wood furniture            IX.; X.; XII.;     Part A,         Regulation
                      manufacturing. Address        XIII.; XVI.;       Section II.;    25, Part B
                      EPA concerns with             XVII.; XIX.;       Part B,         (fkna Part C);
                      requirements for industrial   XX.; XXI.          Section IV;     Regulation 7,
                      cleaning solvents, metal                         Part B,         Part B (fkna
                      furniture surface coating,                       Section VI.;    Part D);
                      and miscellaneous metal                          Part C,         Regulation
                      surface coating. Updated                         Section I.;     26, Part B
                      incorporation by reference                       Part C,         (fkna Part E);
                      dates.                                           Section X.;     Regulation 23
                                                                       Part D,         (fkna Part F)
                                                                       Section I.;
                                                                       Part C,
                                                                       Section IV.;
                                                                       Part C,
                                                                       Section V.;
                                                                       Part D,
                                                                       Section II.;
                                                                       Part E,
                                                                       Section III.;
                                                                       Part E,
                                                                       Section IV.
                                                                       Part F




                                                                                             55
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)        Regulation    Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                7 Section      Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                                 (pre-2019    (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                   numbering)       as of
                                                                   12.2022)

2019       Dec. 19    Reorganized into Parts A     Sections I.   (see
                      through F. Replaced the      through XX.   reorganization
                      SIP system-wide              and           cross walk)
                      condensate tank control      Appendices
                      program with a fixed         A through F
                      threshold storage tank
                      control program.
                      Increased state-only,
                      state-wide storage tank
                      controls. Adopted oil and
                      gas storage tank
                      measurement system,
                      hydrocarbon liquids
                      loadout, leak detection
                      and repair, well plugging,
                      and pneumatic controller
                      requirements. Adopted an
                      oil and gas transmission
                      and storage segment
                      methane intensity
                      program. Adopted an
                      annual oil and gas
                      inventory program.
                      Expanded SIP
                      requirements to 50 tpy
                      sources. Aligned gasoline
                      tank truck testing
                      requirements with federal
                      requirements as SIP
                      clean-up.




                                                                                       56
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)       Regulation   Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted               7 Section     Section        Section (as
adoption   adoption                                (pre-2019   (numbering        of 4.2023)
                                                  numbering)      as of
                                                                 12.2022)

2020       Sept. 23   Adopted requirements for                 Part D,         Regulation 7,
                      natural gas fired 1,000                  Sections II.;   Part B (fkna
                      horsepower engines.                      IV.; V.; VI.;   Part D);
                      Adopted flowback vessel                  Part E,         Regulation
                      control requirements and                 Section I.      26, Part B
                      pre- and early-production                                (fkna Part E)
                      monitoring requirements.
                      Expanded hydrocarbon
                      liquids loadout
                      requirements to class II
                      disposal well facilities.

2020       Dec. 18    Adopted requirements for                 Part D,         Regulation 7,
                      major source foam                        Section II.;    Part B (fkna
                      manufacturing, boilers,                  Part E,         Part D);
                      turbines, landfill and                   Sections II.;   Regulation
                      biogas fired engines, and                IV.; V.         26, Part B
                      wood surface coating.                                    (fkna Part E)

2021       Feb. 18    Adopted non-emitting                     Part D,         Regulation 7,
                      pneumatic controller                     Section III.    Part B (fkna
                      requirements for new                                     Part D)
                      facilities and existing
                      pneumatic controller
                      retrofit requirements for
                      existing facilities.

2021       July 16    Adopted requirements for                 Part C,         Regulation
                      metal parts surface                      Section I.;     25, Part B
                      coating and major source                 Part D,         (fkna Part C);
                      process heaters.                         Section III.;   Regulation 7,
                                                               Part E,         Part B (fkna
                                                               Section II.     Part D);
                                                                               Regulation
                                                                               26, Part B
                                                                               (fkna Part E)




                                                                                      57
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of      Summary of rule(s)        Regulation   Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule       rule            adopted                7 Section     Section         Section (as
adoption   adoption                                 (pre-2019   (numbering         of 4.2023)
                                                   numbering)      as of
                                                                  12.2022)

2021       Dec. 17    Adopted SIP revisions to                  Part D,           Regulation 7,
                      address EPA concerns                      Sections I., II., Part B (fkna
                      with the EPA Oil and Gas                  III., V., VI.     Part D)
                      CTG. Adopted oil and gas
                      combustion device
                      performance testing
                      requirements. Expanded
                      reciprocating compressor
                      rod packing, leak
                      detection and repair, and
                      pneumatic controller
                      requirements at natural
                      gas processing plants.
                      Expanded leak detection
                      and repair, separator, and
                      well maintenance
                      requirements. Adopted
                      pigging and blowdown
                      requirements.




                                                                                        58
    CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-28
    Air Quality Control Commission



 Year of    Date of       Summary of rule(s)            Regulation   Regulation 7           Rule &
  rule       rule             adopted                    7 Section     Section            Section (as
adoption   adoption                                      (pre-2019   (numbering            of 4.2023)
                                                        numbering)      as of
                                                                       12.2022)

2022       Dec. 15     Adopted requirements for                      Part E,             Regulation
                       major source combustion                       Sections I., II.,   24, Part B
                       equipment, wood coating,                      III., VI., VII.,    (fkna Part B);
                       solvent use, bakery                           and VIII., Part     Regulation
                       operation, digital printing,                  C., Sections        25, Part B
                       poultry waste processing,                     I., II., and IV.,   (fkna Part C);
                       oil stabilization facilities,                 and Part D,         Regulation 7,
                       class II injection well                       Section II.;        Part B (fkna
                       facilities, and industrial                    Part D,             Part D);
                       waste; included state only                    Sections II., ;     Regulation
                       provisions as SIP                             Part A,             26, Part B
                       strengthening measures;                       Sections I.         (fkna Part E)
                       clarified the applicability of                and II.; Part
                       requirements to newly                         C, Section I.;
                       classified ozone                              and Part B,
                       nonattainment areas;                          Section IV.
                       included requirements for
                       motor vehicle materials
                       and automotive coatings;
                       expanded gasoline tank
                       truck testing requirements.

    The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
    throughout the regulations.

    Incorporation by Reference

    The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

    Additional Considerations

    These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from
    the requirement of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

    Findings of Fact

    To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
    considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
    determination that:




                                                                                                59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
by interested parties.

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
yyreductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction
in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation
in the most cost-effective manner.

II.     April 15-17, 2026 (Revisions to Part B, Section VI.)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

On June 2, 2022, House Bill (HB) 22-1244: Public Protections for Toxic Air
Contaminants was signed into law. The law, now primarily codified at Section 25-7-
109.5, C.R.S., directed the Commission to adopt emission control regulations for each
identified priority toxic air contaminant (PTAC) by April 30, 2026.

On January 17, 2025, the Commission adopted Regulation Number 30 and identified
five initial PTACs. In this action, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation 24, as
well as Regulation Number 26 and Regulation Number 30, to establish emissions
control regulations for certain stationary sources that emit one or more PTACs.

The emissions control regulations will reduce PTAC emissions, focusing on specific
source categories for this initial set of strategies. Specifically, in Regulation Number 24,
the adopted emissions control requirements will further reduce emissions of benzene
from petroleum liquids refining operations.

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in Section 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S.
required the Commission to, no later than April 30, 2026, adopt emission control



                                                                                          60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


regulations to reduce emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reduction in
disproportionately impacted communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs.

In determining the emission control regulations, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b), C.R.S.
requires that the Commission consider:

(I)     Any emission control regulations adopted for PTACs in other states or by the
        federal government;

(II)    The emission levels of a PTAC from different industries and categories of
        sources, including sources required to have an operating permit pursuant to
        Section 25-7-114.3, synthetic minor sources, and minor sources;

(III)   The degree of reduction of each PTAC that is achievable and technically and
        economically feasible, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic
        impacts and other costs pursuant to the requirements described in Section 25-7-
        110.8;

(IV)    The ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate the emissions of
        a PTAC, including non-emitting alternative processes and control technologies;
        and

(V)     The availability, suitability, and relative efficacy of a less hazardous substitute for
        a PTAC.

In addition, for new PTAC emission sources, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(c), C.R.S. directs
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations that are more stringent than
those adopted for existing sources. It also provides that the Commission may adopt an
emission threshold below which new sources are not required to comply with the more
stringent regulations.

“Emission control regulation” is broadly defined at Section 25-7-103(11), C.R.S.
Emission control regulations pertaining to PTACs “may include application of measures,
processes, methods, systems, or techniques, including, but not limited to, measures
that: (a) [r]educe the volume of, or eliminate emissions of, such pollutants through
process changes, emission limitations, control technologies, substitution of materials, or
other modifications; (b) [e]nclose systems or processes to eliminate emissions; (c)
[c]ollect, capture, or treat such pollutants when released from a process, stack, storage,
or fugitive emissions points; (d) [a]re design, equipment, or work practice standards
(including requirements for operator training or certification); or (e) [a]re a combination
of the provisions of paragraphs (a) to (d) ….”

In addition to Section 25-7-109.5, C.R.S., Section 25-7-109, C.R.S. provides the
Commission authority to adopt emission control regulations for PTACs. Section 25-7-
106(6), C.R.S. provides the Commission authority to require sources to establish and
maintain reports; install, use, and maintain monitoring equipment or methods; record,
monitor, and sample emissions; and provide such other information as the Commission
may require.



                                                                                             61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 24.

PTAC emissions control regulations

The Commission adopted the emissions control regulations for the five initial PTACs
based on research and stakeholder outreach conducted by Division staff. Staff
developed the emissions control regulations following the direction at Section 25-7-
109.5(7)(b), C.R.S. Staff compiled and analyzed emissions data from stationary
sources, and the processes that result in emissions. Staff researched emissions control
regulations for the five PTAC as adopted in other states and by the federal government,
emission levels from different types of source categories, considered the degree of
PTAC emissions reductions achievable and technically and economically feasible,
considered the ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate PTAC
emissions, and considered the availability, suitability, and efficacy of less hazardous
substitutes. Staff also held informational meetings with the public and industry groups,
as well as source-specific stakeholder meetings throughout the rule development
process to ensure adopted provisions effectively reduce PTAC emissions in ways that
are technically and economically feasible.

To further reduce emissions of benzene from equipment leaks at petroleum refining
operations, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 24 to revise leak
detection and repair requirements at petroleum refineries. Specifically, the Commission
modified the requirements for monitoring programs to require recording and,
subsequently, repair of leaks with a VOC concentration above 500 ppmv for non-pump
equipment and 2,000 ppmv for pumps. As benzene is a component of VOCs, the
reduction in VOC emissions that will result from the lower detection limits will result in
the reduction of benzene emissions.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout the regulations.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed and as opportunities
arrive.

Additional Considerations

The requirement to develop emissions control regulations for PTAC is not a federal rule.
However, the Commission recognizes that state air toxic regulations often complement
gaps in federal frameworks, and therefore the Commission adopted certain revisions to
Regulation Number 24 to achieve additional reductions and compliance oversight of
these PTAC sources. The Commission provides the following additional statement, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS.




                                                                                        62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


(I)     Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
        on those requirements;

        The Commission adopted revisions in Regulation Number 24 to modify the
        definitions of vapor loss and leaks at petroleum refineries and the monitoring
        programs to require the recording and, subsequently, repair of leaks. These
        facilities may also be subject to EPA’s NSPS J, NSPS Ja, NSPS XX, NSPS
        GGG, NSPS GGGa, NSPS QQQ, NESHAP CC, NESHAP R and NESHAP UUU.
        The adopted leak detection limits are more stringent than the ones in the federal
        rules and do not conflict with the federal requirements.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
        There are flexibilities in how these reductions can be achieved. Applicable
        NESHAP and NSPS are performance-based and provide flexibility to states and
        sources regarding how to reduce emissions and otherwise meet performance
        standards.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;

        EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data, not
        Colorado specific issues or concerns. The above referenced federal
        requirements concerning petroleum storage are not as stringent as those
        adopted by the Commission in Regulation Number 24.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;

        The adopted rules will provide certainty to sources, by providing specified
        technology-based performance standards and clear timing requirements. The
        adopted rules aid Colorado in achieving emissions control requirements as
        directed by Section 25-7-109.5(7) and provides regulated entities flexibility to
        identify and cost-effectively employ emissions control technologies to reduce
        PTAC emissions in the state.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;




                                                                                           63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


        These are state-specific rules that are not addressing federal requirements.
        Thus, there are no timing issues related to other applicable NESHAP or NSPS.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The adopted rules will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin
        for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth as it does not limit sources
        to specific technology to comply and aligns with regulations seen in federal and
        other state programs. Additionally, the rules establish reasonable times for
        meeting PTAC emissions control requirements. The rules afford the ability to
        affect required emissions controls through alternative compliance measures
        where needed and establish multiple pathways for compliance.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The Commission considered source emissions rates and locations to identify
        sources of concern for this emission control regulation.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
       enacted;

        If a more stringent rule is not enacted, public health and welfare and the
        environment could face increased costs associated with delays in implementation
        of appropriate PTAC measures.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;

        There are separate requirements to report or monitor PTAC from applicable
        federal regulations. Federal regulations have different monitoring and reporting
        thresholds for different types of source categories. In order for Colorado to
        protect public health and welfare and the environment, state-specific regulations
        that require more stringent or specific requirements are necessary. The
        Commission is granted additional authority to adopt PTAC-specific
        considerations under Section 25-7-109.5 (1)(d), C.R.S.: Emissions of toxic air
        contaminants should be monitored and controlled to levels that avoid, minimize,
        or mitigate harm to public health and the environment; and (2)(b) Analyze public
        health risks from toxic air contaminant emissions from sources based on verified
        science and reporting of emissions data, including consideration of background
        levels in the ambient air.

        Where applicable, the Commission has not adopted additional procedural,
        reporting or monitoring requirements where the federal requirements satisfy
        Colorado specific concerns.



                                                                                         64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        In aligning with requirements in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S., the
        Commission adopted provisions that may require technology that has been
        demonstrated as available and technically feasible in other states or federal
        regulations.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        The adopted requirements will prevent pollution of identified PTAC, as directed
        by HB 22-1244. Anticipated reductions in harmful air pollutants are expected to
        have positive health benefits for the people of Colorado. Cost effectiveness of the
        regulations are outlined in the rulemaking materials such as the Economic Impact
        Analysis and various technical support documents.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The Commission is required to adopt emission control regulations that reduce
        emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reductions in disproportionately impacted
        communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs. A no-action
        alternative would not meet the statutory requirements. Alternative rules could
        address this directive, such as different compliance timelines and emission
        control requirements. However, the Commission believes that for this initial
        promulgation of PTAC emission control strategies, the adopted categorical
        requirements best meet the statutory considerations in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b),
        C.R.S.

        Findings of Fact

        To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking,
        and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby
        makes the determination that

        (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed,
                and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered
                all information submitted by interested parties.

        (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
                demonstrable reduction of PTAC emissions.

        (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
                reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
                costs to implement and comply with the rules.




                                                                                           65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


    (IV)   The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
           reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

    (V)    The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
           regulation in the most cost-effective manner.




                                                                                      66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-28
Air Quality Control Commission


Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 06/14/2023.
Rules VI C.2.a, VI C.3, VI C.4.a(ii)-(iii), VI C.4.b(i), VI C.4.b(i)(J), Part C II eff.
      06/14/2026.




                                                                                            67
