CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 16 STREET SANDING EMISSIONS

    5 CCR 1001-18
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    I. Street Sanding Materials Specifications

    I.A. Applicability

    The provisions of this Section I shall apply to street sanding materials purchased after October 1, 1991 or
    used after June 1, 1992 by: any governmental entity; any employee, official, representative, or agent of
    such governmental entity; and any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of
    applying street sanding material in the AIR program area, as defined in Section 42-4-307(8) C.R.S. This
    Section I shall also apply to all suppliers of street sanding materials to be used by these governmental
    entities.

    I.B. Definitions

    I.B.1. “Percent Fines” means the percent material passing a #100 sieve as determined by the American
    Society for Testing Materials' (ASTM) “Standard Method for Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse
    aggregates”, designation C136-84a (1988) (American Association of State Highway and Transportation
    Officials designation T27-88.)

    I.B.2. “Durability Index” means the percent loss of weight as determined using ASTM “Standard Test
    Method for Resistance to Degradation of Small-Size Coarse Aggregate by Abrasion and Impact in the
    Los Angeles Machine”. Designation C131-89.

    I.B.3. “High Degree of Angularity” means that grains exhibit sharply intersecting, planar faces over entire
    surface.

    I.B.4. “Street Sanding Material(s),” when used in Section I, Street Sanding Materials Specifications,
    means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased
    traction on roadways or paved areas.

    I.B.5. “Recycled Street Sanding Material” means previously used street sanding material which has been
    collected from roadways or paved areas and is then re-used as is, after washing, or after blending with
    new street sanding material.

    I.B.6. “Full Deployment” means that all roadways targeted for treatment during a snow/ice event are
    sanded.

    I.B.7, “Independent Laboratory” means a facility capable of performing the specified tests in a competent,
    professional, and unbiased manner with no financial, family, or personal connection to the supplier or
    user of street sanding materials.

    I.B.8. “User(s)” means any governmental entity, and any employee, official, representative, or agent of
    such governmental entity responsible for the application of street sanding materials, and any person who
    contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying street sanding material.




    Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               1
I.C. Street Sanding Material Standards

I.C.I. Material Standards

All street sanding material, whether new or recycled, shall equal or exceed either of the following
standards:

        I.C.1.a. less than 2% fines and less than 45% durability index or;

        I.C.I.b. less than 4% fines, less than 33% durability index, and a high degree of angularity
        exhibited by the majority of the grains.

I.D. Testing Requirements

I.D.1. General

Testing of street sanding material covered by this regulation shall consist of the determination of:

        I.D.1.a. the percent fines;

        I.D.1.b. the durability index; and

        I.D.1.c. the high degree of angularity exhibited by the majority of the grains.

I.D.2. Supplier Requirements

        I.D.2.a. Suppliers of street sanding material covered by this regulation shall perform at least one
        test to determine the percent fines each week on the material as it is produced.

        I.D.2.b. Suppliers shall have one test per month performed by an independent laboratory to
        determine the percent fines on a representative sample of their street sanding material. This shall
        be performed each month in which street sanding material is produced.

        I.D.2.C. Suppliers shall have one test performed by an independent laboratory determine the
        durability index on a representative sample from the pit source between July 1 and September 30
        each year in which they sell street sanding material covered by this regulation.

        I.D.2.d. If Section C.I.b. applies, supplier shall furnish once per month of production a signed
        statement certifying that a visual examination for angularity was performed on the street sanding
        material and the results of that visual exam.

I.D.3. User Requirements

Users shall have a test performed by an independent laboratory to determine the percent fines index on
all recycled materials at least once for the first 250 tons of recycled material used each winter and at least
once for every 500 tons of recycled material thereafter.

I.D.4. Division Audit Authority

The Air Pollution Control Division (Division) may enter the site of any supplier or user of sanding material
covered by this regulation for the purpose of obtaining a sample of material to determine if the material
meets - e applicable standards.

I.E. Reporting Requirements




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                   2
I.E.I. Suppliers Requirements

        I.E.1.a. Suppliers shall submit to the Division a monthly report that contains a summary of the
        results of all percent fines tests performed by the supplier and independent laboratories as
        required by the provisions of Section I.D.2.a. and b. For material conforming to Section I.C.1.b.,
        suppliers shall submit monthly certification that visual examination of angularity of grains has
        been performed and the results of that visual exam.

        I.E.1.b. For every year that street sanding material is produced, the supplier shall submit to the
        Division a copy of the results of the annual durability index test performed by independent labs as
        required by Section I.D.2.C. no later than 60 days after the test is conducted.

        I.E.1.c. Prior to, or upon, delivery of street sanding material, suppliers shall provide users of
        street sanding material covered by this regulation with a report demonstrating that the supplier
        has met all testing requirements of this regulation applicable to the time period in which deliveries
        are made

I.E.2. Users Requirements

        I.E.2.a. Users of recycled street sanding material shall submit to the Division copies of the results
        of testing conducted according to Section D.3. no later than 30 days after the tests are
        conducted.

        I.E.2.b. Within 7 calendar days of awarding a contract for the purchase of street sanding material
        to a supplier, the user shall notify the Division of the supplier's name and the location of the
        aggregate pit(s) from which the material will be supplied.

        I.E.2.C. The user shall maintain on file reports received under the provisions of Section E.l.c. for
        a period of three (3) years.

I.E.3. Division Audit Authority

All records generated under the provisions of this regulation shall be made available for inspection upon
request by the Division.

I.F. Alternative Test Methods and Standards

Alternative percent fines and durability index test procedures for percent fines and durability may be
approved by the Division and EPA should they be determined to provide a measure that is equivalent to
the test procedures of this regulation.

I.G. Alternative Sanding Materials

Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the Division and EPA provided
that the impact of such experiments or tests does not contribute appreciably to air quality degradation.

II. Street Sanding Requirements Specific to the Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area

II.A. Applicability




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                   3
II.A.1. The provisions of this Section II shall apply to any governmental entity and any employee, official,
representative, or agent of such governmental entity responsible for applying street sanding material to
any roadway in the Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance area as defined in the AQCC Ambient Air
Standards Regulation (effective date: July 30, 1991). The provisions of this Section II shall also apply to
any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying street sanding
material to any roadway in the Denver PM-10 Attainment/Maintenance area.

II.B. Additional Definitions

II.B.1. “Base Sanding Amount” is the average amount of street sanding material applied per lane mile
driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal operations. The base sanding amount shall
be calculated using 1989 data. If reliable 1989 data is not available, another base year period may be
used after approval by the Division.

II.B.2. “Street Sanding Material(s),” when used in Section II, Street Sanding Requirements Specific to the
Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area, means natural geologic material, including sand and sodium
chloride rock salt but excluding other de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased traction or de-icing on
roadways.

II.B.3. “Foothills Area” refers to the area defined as follows:

        The western edge of the Denver PM10 attainment/maintenance area from the southern Jefferson
        County line to the northern Boulder County line;

        the northern Boulder County line east to the western edge of US Highway 36;

        the western edge of US Highway 36 from the northern Boulder County line south to the Boulder
        City limits;

        the western edge of the Boulder City limits south to CO Highway 93;

        the western edge of CO Highway 93 south to the Golden City limits;

        the western edge of the Golden City limits south to US Highway 40;

        the western edge of US Highway 40 southwest to CO Highway 26; *

        CO Highway 26 south to US Highway 93;

        US Highway 93 south to the Morrison City limits;

        the western and southern edge of the Morrison City limits to Highway C-470;

        the western edge of C-470 south to South Platte Canyon Road;

        the western edge of South Platte Canyon Road south to Kassler Road;

        the western edge of Kassler Road to the southern edge of Douglas County Road 7;

        the southern edge of Douglas County Road 7 east to the western edge of Douglas County Road
        5;

        the western edge of Douglas County Road 5 south to Roxborough Park Road;




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                   4
        proceeding on a line from the intersection of Douglas County Road 5 and Roxborough Park Road
        to the intersection of Colorado Highways 67 and 105 (Perry Park Road);

        south along the western edge of Perry Park Road to the southern Douglas County line; and

        west along the southern Douglas & Jefferson County lines to the western edge of the Denver
        PM10 attainment/maintenance area.

II.B.4. “Uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and road dust emissions” shall be calculated using
historical 1989 data.

II.C. Requirements

II.C.1. Each user shall establish and document its base sanding amount. Documentation of the base
sanding amount shall be submitted to the Division and the Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC) by
September 30, 1993.

II.C.2. Except as otherwise provided in sections II.C.4, II.C.5 and II.C.6; each user shall achieve a 30%
reduction of uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways
within their jurisdiction in the PM10 attainment/maintenance area, excepting those roadways within the
foothills area.

II.C.3. Each user shall achieve a 20% reduction from uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and
paved road dust emissions on those roadways within the foothills area of their jurisdiction.

II.C.4. The City and County of Denver shall achieve a 72% reduction from uncontrolled levels of
wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways in the central business district (CBD).
The CBD is defined as the area bounded by and inclusive of Colfax Avenue, Speer Boulevard, Wynkoop
Street, 20th Street, and Broadway.

II.C.5. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) shall achieve a 54% reduction from
uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions from Interstate 25 and its
entrance/exit ramps between 6th Avenue and University Boulevard.

II.C.6 The City and County of Denver and CDOT shall achieve a 50% reduction from uncontrolled levels
of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways within the area bounded by, and
including, Federal Boulevard, Downing Street, 38th Avenue, and Louisiana, except as otherwise provided
by sections II.C.4 and II.C.5.

II.D. Recordkeeping and Reporting

II.D.1. No later than June 30, 2001 and each year thereafter, users of street sanding material covered by
this section shall submit a report to the Division and the RAQC containing the following information for the
preceding twelve months or the preceding calendar year:

        II.D.1.a. the total number of miles driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal
        operations;

        II.D.1.b. the total amount of sanding material (both new and recycled), salt, and other deicing
        chemicals used;

        II.D.1.c. the number and dates of full deployment episodes;

        II.D.1.d. the number of lane miles typically sand ;d during c :h full deployment;




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                5
        II.D.1.e. the percent of the sanded roadways swept within 4 days of a sanding event; and

        II.D.1.f. the type of street sweeping equipment used.

II.D.2. Those entities with roadways in the foothills area shall provide two reports with the information
listed in Section II.D.1. One report shall contain the.information for roadways in the foothills area and the
other for roadways within the remainder of their jurisdiction.

II.D.3. The City and County of Denver and CDOT shall provide two reports with the information listed in
Section II.D.1. One report shall contain the information for roadways in the areas described in Sections
II.C.4 and II.C.5, and the other for other roadways in their jurisdictions within the Denver PM10
attainment/maintenance area.

II.D.4. Beginning June 30,2002, the City and County of Denver and the CDOT shall provide an additional
report of information listed in Section II.D.1. for the area bounded by, andincluding, Federal Boulevard,
Downing Street, 38th Avenue, and Louisiana Avenue as described II.C.6.

II.E. Compliance Methodology

II.E.1. The calculation of the percent reduction from uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and
paved road dust emissions shall be based on the reduction in street sand from the base sanding amount,
the percent of roadways swept within four days of a sanding event, and the latest data on the emission
benefits of street sanding materials, de-icing agents, and street sweeping equipment, which is consistent
with the methodology used for the 2001 PM10 maintenance plan.

III. Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

III.A. May 20, 1999

This Statement of Basis, Specific Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-103 C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

The "Colorado State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Particulate Matter (PM-10); Denver Metropolitan
Nonattainment Area Element" signed into law on May 31, 1995 and subsequently approved by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency includes in Chapter Xl.B.3.d the primary PM-10 emissions budget for
mobile sources in the metro area.

As amended by § 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) , C.R.S. (1998), the metro area's mobile source PM-10 emissions
budget for the purposes of federal transportation conformity is 54 tons per day from 1998 - 2005 and 60
tons per day in 2006 and beyond.

Currently, in order to demonstrate conformity of regional transportation plans with the established mobile
source emissions budgets for the area, the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) obtains
letters of commitment from city, county, and state agencies to reduce PM-10 emissions through improved
street sanding and sweeping programs that go beyond what is currently required by Regulation 16. The
emissions reduction achieved through this proposed "state-only" revision to Regulation 16 can be utilized
for conformity purposes and will eliminate the need for DRCOG to seek commitment letters in the future.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                    6
Also, the provisions of section 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) include a 44 ton per day mobile source emissions
budget which applies exclusively under reserved state authority pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. 25-7-
105 (1). Section 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) also states that: "Any entity with authority to adopt a transportation
plan required under section 43-1-1103, C.R.S., shall consider any mobile source emissions budgets in
effect under this article in the development of transportation improvement programs for federal purposes."
This includes consideration of the 44 ton per day mobile source emissions budget established under state
law in Section V.C.4 of the Colorado Ambient Air Quality Standards Regulation.

As part of the development of the metro area's first comprehensive, long-range air quality plan, called the
Blueprint for Clean Air, the Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC), evaluated the costs, benefits, and
feasibility of achieving a 44 ton per day mobile source emissions budget as a state-only requirement. The
modifications to Regulation 16 proposed in this action will implement the RAQC's final recommendation in
the Blueprint for Clean air which, based on current data, will maintain mobile source PM-10 emissions in
the budget area at no more than 45 tons per day through 2020.

Maintaining mobile source PM-10 emissions at 45 tons per day through 2020 will ensure the region stays
in compliance with EPA's health-based standard for PM-10. Additionally, the emission reductions
achieved through this regulatory modification will reduce fine particulate (PM-2.5) levels, providing a
margin of safety against future violations of EPA's new standard for this pollutant.

Authority

General and specific authority for revising Air Quality Regulations is contained in the Colorado Air
Pollution Control Act, Section 25-7-102, 25-7-109, 25-7-109 (1), and 25-7-109 (2) (a&b).

Purpose

The purpose of this regulatory modification is to prevent significant increases in mobile source PM-10
emissions in the metro Denver non-attainment area as the number of vehicle miles traveled continues to
grow in the future. Adopting this rule as a state-only requirement means that it will not modify the existing
State Implementation Plan, nor will these requirements be federally enforceable. However, the emission
reductions achieved through implementation of the regulation will provide the region with a margin of
safety against future violations of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM-10 and PM-2.5.

The emission reductions proposed in this regulatory modification are already being achieved by most
state and local agencies in the area. This state-only regulation will ensure that the emission reductions
currently being achieved will be maintained into the future.

Findings

The Air Quality Control Commission makes the following findings pursuant to C.R.S. Section 25-7-110.8.

First, the rule revision is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound scientific
methodologies. The uncontrolled emissions estimates and emissions budgets developed by the APCD
are based on published EPA guidance. Maintenance levels of emissions are supported by SIP modeling
performed in accordance with published EPA guidance. Data on alternative materials and the sand
fraction of paved road dust are based on manufacturer's studies and local research conducted by the
Colorado Department of Transportation and are acceptable to EPA. Efficiencies used for sweeping
equipment are based on EPA guidance. Provisions have been included to allow consideration of
additional information in the future which could allow for the achievement of the required reductions at
reduced costs.

Second, the emissions reductions required by the revision will maintain the metro area at an emissions
level through 2020 that will ensure compliance with the PM-10 NAAQS as demonstrated by SIP modeling
and control the growth of PM-10 emissions.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                7
Third, the emissions reduction is cost effective and allows for flexibility of choice of control strategies to
achieve the requirement. It is also equitable and fair in that all entities are required to achieve the same
overall reduction, and it makes provisions for the foothills areas which are already at the limit of safely
achievable and cost effective reductions.

Fourth, the emissions reduction is reasonably achievable in that most entities are presently achieving
reductions greater than required. This proposal received approval from many of the effected parties who
participated in the RAQC's Street Sanding Subcommittee as part of the Blueprint for Clean Air. This
measure also was recommended by the full RAQC when it formally adopted the Blueprint on January 7,
1999.

Federal Requirements

There are no federal requirements for this revision at this time.

III.B. Denver metropolitan area, redesignation to attainment for PM10

Adopted: April 19, 2001

The amendments to the Regulation No. 16 are a component of the maintenance plan and redesignation
request also adopted by the Commission on April 19, 2001 to redesignate the area as attainment for
particulate matter less than ten microns in diameter (PM10).

The April 19, 2001 revisions to the regulations do three things. First, the revisions make federally
enforceable the existing state-only requirements adopted by the Commission on May 20, 1999. The
Commission adopted the state-only requirements in May 1999, which a require a 20% to 30% reduction
in emissions from wintertime street sand and paved road dust throughout the area, to keep emissions
from exceeding the state-only emissions budget then in effect. According to the Division's air quality
models, the measures will be necessary to maintain the PM10 NAAQS and, therefore, must be made part
of the federally-enforceable SIP.

Second, the revisions require further reductions in road dust emissions in the central Denver area,
effective October 1, 2001. The revisions require emissions to be reduced by 50% to 72% from an
established baseline.

Third, the revisions reorganize and simplify the regulations by describing all requisite emission reductions
in terms of 1989 data.

Statutory Authority

General and specific authority for revising Air Quality Regulations is contained in the Colorado Air
Pollution Control Act, § § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), 25-7-107(2.5), 25-7-109(1), (2)(a) and (2)(b).

Federal Requirements

The provisions adopted by the Commission do not exceed the federal requirements. 42 USC 7505a(a)
requires the maintenance plan to include control measures as may be necessary to ensure maintenance
of the NAAQS for at least ten years following redesignation. The revisions adopted by the Commission
are necessary to demonstrate such maintenance of the NAAQS.

Findings

The Air Quality Control Commission makes the following findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                     8
Maintenance levels of emissions are supported by SIP modeling performed in accordance with published
EPA guidance. Data on alternative materials and the sand fraction of paved road dust are based on
manufacturer's studies and local research conducted by the Colorado Department of Transportation and
are acceptable to EPA. Efficiencies used for sweeping equipment are based on EPA guidance and
testing performed in Colorado. Provisions have been included to allow consideration of additional
information in the future which could allow for the achievement of the required reductions at reduced
costs. The Commission believes the EPA-approved models and guidance documents are inaccurate, but
federal rules require the State to use such models and guidance to demonstrate the adequacy of the
maintenance plan. Thus, the rule revisions are based on the only methodology authorized for use by
federal law. All methodologies and information made available by interested parties have been
considered.

The record reflects that reduced use of sand on paved roadways, and the clean-up of sanding material
once applied, reduces ambient concentrations of PM10 in the ambient air. Thus, evidence in the record
supports the finding that the rule will result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution.

_________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                            9
