CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 22

    COLORADO GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING AND EMISSION REDUCTION REQUIREMENTS

    5 CCR 1001-26
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A              Greenhouse Gas Reporting

    PART B              Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Requirements

    PART C              Recovered Methane

    PART D              General Provisions

    PART E              Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes § 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated by reference are
    available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies may be obtained at a reasonable
    cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver,
    Colorado 80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
    Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by reference are those
    editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any later amendments.

    Unless otherwise indicated, any incorporation by reference of provisions of Title 40, Part 98, of the Code
    of Federal Regulations (CFR) are to the edition effective as of January 1, 2025.

    PART A              Greenhouse Gas Reporting

    I.        General Provisions

              I.A.      This regulation establishes mandatory greenhouse gas (GHG) monitoring, recordkeeping
                        and reporting requirements for owners and operators of certain facilities that directly emit
                        GHGs, and retail or wholesale electric service providers.

              I.B.      Suppliers will be required to report GHGs based upon the quantity that would be
                        associated with combustion or use of the products supplied.




                                                                                                                   1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


II.   Definitions

      II.A.   “Anaerobic Process” means a procedure in which organic matter in wastewater,
              wastewater treatment sludge, or other material is degraded by microorganisms in the
              absence of oxygen, resulting in the generation of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane
              (CH4). This source category consists of the following: anaerobic reactors, anaerobic
              lagoons, anaerobic sludge digesters, and biogas destruction devices (for example,
              burners, boilers, turbines, flares, or other devices).

      II.B.   “Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)” means a metric measure used to compare the
              emissions from various GHG based upon their global warming potential (GWP). CO2e is
              determined by multiplying the mass amount of emissions (metric tons per year), for each
              GHG constituent by that gas’s GWP, and summing the resultant values to determine
              CO2e (metric tons per year).

      II.C.   “CFR” means Code of Federal Regulations.

      II.D.   “Counterparty” means a marketer, utility, or other entity with whom an energy transaction
              occurs or a market operator responsible for settlement in an organized market.

      II.E.   “Designated Representative” means an individual selected by an agreement binding on
              the owners and operators of such facility or supplier and acting in accordance with the
              certification statement in Section IV.B.6.

      II.F.   “Domestic Wastewater Treatment Plant” has the same meaning as defined by the Water
              Quality Control Commission in 5 Code of Colo. Regs. (CCR) 1002-22 (September 30,
              2009).

      II.G.   “Electric Service Provider” or “Electric Utility” means any corporation, agency, or other
              legal entity that generates electricity for sale through combustion of fossil fuels or sells
              electricity for retail or wholesale use, including imported, exported, or in-state electricity,
              in the State of Colorado. Electric service provider or electric utility does not include an
              entity that generates electricity which is consumed solely at the facility or complex where
              the generation occurs

      II.H.   “Emergency Generator” means a stationary combustion device, such as a reciprocating
              internal combustion engine or turbine that serves solely as a secondary source of
              mechanical or electrical power whenever the primary energy supply is disrupted or
              discontinued during power outages or natural disasters that are beyond the control of the
              owner or operator of a facility. An emergency generator operates only during emergency
              situations, for training of personnel under simulated emergency conditions, as part of
              emergency demand response procedures, or for standard performance testing
              procedures as required by law or by the generator manufacturer. A generator that serves
              as a back-up power source under conditions of load shedding, peak shaving, power
              interruptions pursuant to an interruptible power service agreement, or scheduled facility
              maintenance is not considered an emergency generator.

      II.I    “Energy Transaction” means a specified quantity of electricity purchased or sold at a
              known transaction point or through an organized market.

      II.J.   “Exported Electricity” means electricity generated inside the State of Colorado and
              delivered to serve load located outside the State of Colorado. Exported electricity does
              not include electricity that is generated outside the State of Colorado, is transmitted
              through the State of Colorado, and with the final point of delivery outside the State of
              Colorado.




                                                                                                                2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


      II.K.   “Facility” means any physical property, plant, building, structure, source, or stationary
              equipment located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties in actual physical
              contact or separated solely by a public roadway or other public right of way and under
              common ownership or common control, that emits or may emit any greenhouse gas.
              Operators of military installations may classify such installations as more than a single
              facility based on distinct and independent functional groupings within contiguous military
              properties.

      II.L.   “Food Processing” means an operation used to manufacture or process meat, poultry,
              fruits, and/or vegetables as defined under NAICS 3116 (Meat Product Manufacturing) or
              NAICS 3114 (Fruit and Vegetable Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing). For
              information on NAICS codes, see http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/ (as published
              January 30, 2020).

      II.M.   "Global Warming Potential" or "GWP" means the ratio of the time-integrated radiative
              forcing from the instantaneous release of one kilogram of a trace substance relative to
              that of one kilogram of a reference gas, i.e., (CO2). For the GHG emissions calculations
              requirements of this rule, the GWP values that must be used are as specified in Table A-
              1 to Subpart A of Title 40 CFR Part 98.

      II.N.   “Greenhouse Gas” or “GHG” means carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide
              (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6)
              and Nitrogen Trifluoride (NF3).

      II.O.   “Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)” means a class of GHGs consisting of hydrogen, fluorine,
              and carbon.

      II.P.   “In-State Electricity” means electricity generated inside the State of Colorado and
              delivered to serve load within the State of Colorado. In-state electricity does not include
              electricity that is generated outside the State of Colorado, is transmitted through the State
              of Colorado, and with the final point of delivery outside the State of Colorado.

      II.Q.   “Industrial Waste Landfill” means a landfill other than a municipal solid waste landfill, a
              Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Subtitle C hazardous waste landfill, or
              a Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) hazardous waste landfill, in which industrial solid
              waste, such as RCRA Subtitle D wastes (non-hazardous industrial solid waste, defined in
              40 CFR § 257.2 (May 30, 2017)), commercial solid wastes, or conditionally exempt small
              quantity generator wastes, is placed. An industrial waste landfill includes all disposal
              areas at the facility.

      II.R.   “Industrial Wastewater Treatment” means use of anaerobic processes to treat industrial
              wastewater and industrial wastewater treatment sludge at pulp and paper manufacturing,
              food processing, ethanol production and petroleum refining facilities. Industrial
              wastewater treatment does not include municipal wastewater treatment plants or
              separate treatment of sanitary wastewater at industrial sites.

      II.S.   “Imported Electricity” means electricity generated outside the State of Colorado and
              delivered to serve load within the State of Colorado. Imported electricity does not include
              electricity that is generated outside the State of Colorado, is transmitted through the State
              of Colorado, and with the final point of delivery outside the State of Colorado.




                                                                                                           3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


      II.T.    “Local Distribution Company” or “LDC” means a company that owns or operates
               distribution pipelines, not interstate pipelines or intrastate pipelines, that physically deliver
               natural gas to end users and that are within a single state that are regulated as separate
               operating companies by State public utility commissions or that operate as independent
               municipally-owned distribution systems. LDCs do not include pipelines (both interstate
               and intrastate) delivering natural gas directly to major industrial users and farm taps
               upstream of the local distribution company inlet.

      II.U.    “Metric Ton” means a common international measurement for mass equal to 1,000
               kilograms, which is equivalent to 2204.6 pounds or 1.1 short tons.

      II.V.    “Municipal Solid Waste Landfill” or “MSW Landfill” means an entire disposal facility in a
               contiguous geographical space where household waste is placed in or on land. An MSW
               landfill may also receive other types of RCRA Subtitle D wastes (40 CFR § 257.2 (May
               30, 2017)) such as commercial solid waste, non-hazardous sludge, conditionally exempt
               small quantity generator waste, and industrial solid waste. Portions of an MSW landfill
               may be separated by access roads, public roadways, or other public right-of-ways. An
               MSW landfill may be publicly or privately owned.

      II.W.    “Natural Gas Transmission and Storage” has the same meaning as “natural gas
               transmission and storage segment” as defined in Air Commission Regulation Number 7,
               Part D, Section IV.A. (effective February 14, 2020).

      II.X.    “North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Code(s)” means the six-digit
               code(s) that represents the product(s)/activity(s)/service(s) at a facility or supplier as
               listed in the Federal Register and defined in “North American Industrial Classification
               System Manual 2007,” available from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National
               Technical Information Service, Alexandria, VA 22312 and
               http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/ (as published January 30, 2020).

      II.Y.    “Oil and Natural Gas Operations and Equipment” means the equipment and activities
               listed in AQCC Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section V.C. (effective February 14, 2020).

      II.Z.    “Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)” means a class of greenhouse gases consisting on the
               molecular level of carbon and fluorine.

      II.AA.   “Research and Development” means those activities conducted in process units or at
               laboratory bench-scale settings whose purpose is to conduct research and development
               for new processes, technologies, or products and whose purpose is not for the
               manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a de minimis manner.

      II.BB.   “Responsible Official” means the definition of that term found in the Air Quality Control
               Commission’s Common Provisions Regulation (effective January 14, 2016).

      II.CC.   “Retail Utility” means an electric service provider or electric utility that sells electricity to
               end-use customers or ratepayers.

      II.DD.   “Supplier” means a producer, importer, or exporter in any supply category included in
               Table A-5 of Subpart A, 40 CFR Part 98, as defined by the appropriate subpart in 40 CFR
               Part 98.

      II.EE    “Transaction Point” means a recognized electrical location where seller agrees to deliver
               energy and purchaser agrees to receive energy for bilateral trades or settlement
               schedules regardless of market type or an identified settlement location or settlement
               area in an organized market.




                                                                                                                   4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


       II.FF.   “Unspecified Energy” is electricity that is not traceable to a specific generating facility,
                such as electricity traded through open market transactions. This electricity is typically a
                mix of resource types, and may include renewables.

       II.GG. “Wholesale Utility” means an electric service provider or electric utility that sells electricity
              or energy to a retail utility or other wholesale utility.

       II.HH.   “Year” means calendar year.

III.   Applicability and Emissions Quantification for Affected Sources

       III.A.   The GHG monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this rule apply to the
                owners and operators of any facility or entity that is located in the State of Colorado and
                that meets any of the following requirements:

                III.A.1. Any electric service provider or electric utility, regardless of annual GHG
                         emission quantities. GHGs reported must include all emissions from electricity
                         generation and transmission and distribution equipment, not including emergency
                         generators.

                III.A.2. Any local distribution company distributing natural gas in the State of Colorado,
                         regardless of annual GHG emission quantities.

                III.A.3. Any industrial waste landfill active at any point during the year, regardless of
                         annual GHG emission quantities. Inert material facilities as defined under 6 CCR
                         1007-2, Part 1 (November 30, 2019), are exempt from the requirements of this
                         regulation. The GHGs reported must include emissions from the landfill, landfill
                         gas collection systems, and destruction devices for landfill gases

                III.A.4. Any industrial wastewater treatment, regardless of annual GHG emission
                         quantities.

                III.A.5. Any underground coal mine meeting the source category definition for an
                         underground coal mine in Subpart FF of 40 CFR, Part 98 at any point during the
                         year and regardless of annual GHG emission quantities.

                III.A.6. Any facility or supplier not covered under Sections III.A.1. through III.A.5. or III.C.
                         that is required to report under 40 CFR Part 98 as incorporated herein must
                         report GHGs directly to the State of Colorado to the same extent as reported
                         under 40 CFR Part 98. The requirement to report pursuant to 40 CFR, Part 98 as
                         incorporated herein continues to apply regardless of future revisions to 40 CFR,
                         Part 98.

                III.A.7. Any municipal solid waste landfill active at any point during the year or permitted
                         to accept additional waste, regardless of annual GHG emission quantities. Any
                         closed municipal solid waste landfill equipped with a gas collection system and
                         destruction device(s) for landfill gases must also report GHG emissions,
                         regardless of annual GHG emission quantities, until the gas collection system
                         and destruction device(s) are removed. The GHGs reported must include
                         emissions from the landfill, landfill gas collection systems, and destruction
                         devices for landfill gases.

                III.A.8   Any domestic wastewater treatment plant may voluntarily report GHGs.




                                                                                                               5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


               III.A.9. Any agricultural operation may voluntarily report GHGs or operational information
                        sufficient to allow the Division to determine GHGs.

               III.A.10. Research and development activities are excluded from GHG reporting
                         requirements.

      III.B.   To quantify GHG emissions for the reporting purposes of this rule, the owner or operator
               of a facility or an entity identified in Section III.A. must calculate GHG emissions by year
               as described, and any reporting requirement under 40 CFR, Part 98 and its Subparts as
               incorporated herein continue to apply regardless of future revisions to 40 CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.1. For an electric service provider or electric utility identified in Section III.A.1, GHG
                        emissions must be calculated using the applicable calculation methodologies and
                        appropriate equations specified in Subparts C, D, and DD of 40 CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.2. For a local distribution company identified in Section III.A.2., GHG emissions
                        must be calculated using the applicable calculation methodologies specified in
                        Subparts W and NN of 40 CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.3. For an industrial waste landfill identified in Section III.A.3., GHG emissions must
                        be calculated according to Subpart C, if applicable, and Subpart TT of 40 CFR,
                        Part 98.

               III.B.4. For industrial wastewater treatment identified in Section III.A.4., GHG emissions
                        must be calculated according to Subpart C, if applicable, and Subpart II of 40
                        CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.5. For an underground coal mine identified in Section III.A.5., GHG emissions must
                        be calculated according to Subpart C, if applicable, and Subpart FF of 40 CFR,
                        Part 98.

               III.B.6. For a facility or supplier included pursuant to Section III.A.6., GHG emissions
                        must be calculated using the calculation methodologies specified in each
                        applicable Subpart of 40 CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.7. For a municipal solid waste landfill identified in Section III.A.7., GHG emissions
                        must be calculated according to Subpart C, if applicable, and Subpart HH of 40
                        CFR, Part 98.

               III.B.8. For a domestic wastewater treatment plant identified in Section III.A.8., GHG
                        emissions must be calculated using GHG emission estimating protocols
                        acceptable to the Division.

               III.B.9. For an agricultural operation identified in Section III.A.9., reported GHG
                        emissions or operational information must utilize emission calculation protocols
                        that are acceptable to the Division and applicable to the specific activities or
                        types of operations in the agricultural sector.

      III.C.   Oil and Natural Gas Reporting Requirements:




                                                                                                              6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


              III.C.1. Oil and natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural gas
                       processing plant are not subject to Sections III.A, III.B, IV, and V of this
                       regulation and must report GHG emissions to the State of Colorado according to
                       the requirements of AQCC Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section V. (effective
                       February 14, 2020). Records of information included in reports submitted
                       pursuant to AQCC Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section V. (effective February
                       14, 2020) must be maintained for a period of two (2) years and made available to
                       the Division upon request.

              III.C.2. Natural gas transmission and storage are not subject to Sections III.A, III.B, IV
                       and V of this regulation and must report GHG emissions according to the
                       requirements of AQCC Regulation Number 7, Part D, Section IV. (effective
                       February 14, 2020).

IV.   Reporting Requirements

      IV.A.   Owners and operators of facilities or entities identified in Section III.A. must submit a
              report of all GHG emissions or supply in the previous calendar year. GHG emissions or
              supply must be reported utilizing Division-approved format or forms.

              IV.A.1. The first report for owners and operators of facilities or entities required to report
                      for calendar year 2020 pursuant to 40 CFR, Part 98 is due on or before March
                      31, 2021 (and by March 31 every year thereafter).

              IV.A.2. Owners and operators of facilities or entities covered by Sections III.A.1 through
                      III.A.5 must report to the Division even if their emissions are below the reporting
                      thresholds of 40 CFR, Part 98. The first report for owners and operators of
                      facilities or entities under Sections III.A.1. through III.A.5. that were not required
                      to submit a federal report for calendar year 2020 pursuant to 40 CFR, Part 98 is
                      due on or before March 31, 2022 for calendar year 2021 (and by March 31 every
                      year thereafter). The first report for owners and operators of facilities under
                      Section III.A.7. that are not required to submit a federal report pursuant to 40
                      CFR, Part 98 is due on or before March 31, 2025 (and by March 31 every year
                      thereafter).

              IV.A.3. The first report for owners and operators of facilities or entities subject to
                      Subparts VV, WW, XX, YY, or ZZ of 40 CFR, Part 98, or newly subject to
                      reporting under other Subparts of 40 CFR, Part 98 based on the incorporation by
                      reference date for 40 CFR, Part 98 in this rule, is due on or before March 31,
                      2026 (and by March 31 every year thereafter).

              I.V.A.4. Owners and operators of facilities or entities under Sections III.A.8. and III.A.9.
                       may report for any year. GHG emissions reported under this Section IV.A.4. must
                       be submitted by March 31 for the prior year.

      IV.B.   GHG reports submitted must include the following:

              IV.B.1. Individual GHG constituents (in metric tons per year) and aggregated CO2e
                      emissions.




                                                                                                               7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


              IV.B.2. AIRS ID if assigned to a subject facility, along with the facility name, entity name
                      or supplier name (as appropriate), and physical street address of the facility,
                      entity or supplier, including the city, State, and zip code. If the facility does not
                      have a physical street address, then the facility must provide the latitude and
                      longitude representing the geographic centroid or center point of facility
                      operations in decimal degree format. This must be provided in a comma-
                      delimited “latitude, longitude” coordinate pair reported in decimal degrees to at
                      least four digits to the right of the decimal point.

              IV.B.3. NAICS code(s) that apply to the facility or supplier, including the primary NAICS
                      code and any additional NAICS code(s).

              IV.B.4. Year and months covered by the report.

              IV.B.5. Date of submission.

              IV.B.6. Certification statement signed and dated by a responsible official, or their
                      designated representative, that identifies the individual’s title and contact
                      information and attests that the report being submitted is true, accurate and
                      complete to the best of the certifying individual’s knowledge.

      IV.C.   In addition to the information required under Section IV.B., electric service providers and
              electric utilities must also report the following information for the prior year using Division-
              approved forms by no later than June 30 of each year:

              IV.C.1. Beginning June 30, 2022, data elements necessary for the Division to determine
                      GHG emissions attributable to imported and exported electricity. The reporting
                      requirements in Section IV.C.1. track emissions associated with imports and
                      exports in order to attribute GHG emissions from electricity delivered to
                      customers in the State of Colorado, and determine GHG emissions from
                      electricity exported out of the state. Emissions from imports and exports also
                      informs the development, assessment, and refinement of strategies to achieve
                      the statewide greenhouse gas targets and may assist local organizations with
                      GHG planning efforts.

                      IV.C.1.a.       In reporting the requirements of this Section IV.C.1., the electric
                              service provider or electric utility will:

                               IV.C.1.a.(i)    Use the reporting form published by the Division to
                                       report annualized data in a consistent format.

                               IV.C.1.a.(ii)   Use the most detailed data readily available for business
                                       purposes when determining the annual reported values
                                       including, but not limited to, short or long term contracts, internal
                                       tracking systems for energy transactions between counterparties
                                       or through organized markets, or for other regulatory reporting
                                       requirements to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, US
                                       EPA, Energy Information Administration, or Federal Energy
                                       Regulatory Commission.




                                                                                                              8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                           IV.C.1.a.(iii)   Use the most specific data sources in the published form
                                   for assigning GHG emissions to imports and exports of
                                   unspecified energy, electricity acquired through contract
                                   obligations, market electricity purchased or sold from a pooled
                                   group of resources, or renewable energy for which a renewable
                                   energy credit is not included with the purchase or sale. Data
                                   sources may include defined contractual requirements, facility
                                   specific or portfolio GHG emissions factors, published balancing
                                   authority or regional emissions intensity factors, or other data
                                   sources approved in advance by the Division.

                           IV.C.1.a.(iv)    Not be required to report duplicative information from
                                   generation facilities, wholesale utilities, and retail utilities under
                                   common ownership of an electric service provider or electric
                                   utility.

                   IV.C.1.b.        The annual data elements to be reported pursuant to Section
                           IV.C.1. include but are not limited to:

                           IV.C.1.b.(i)      For each fossil fuel fired generation facility, the Total
                                   Gross Megawatt-hours (MWh) generated at the facility and Net
                                   MWh received by each entity with an ownership stake in the
                                   facility, which must be reported by the entity with operational
                                   control.

                           IV.C.1.b.(ii)    For each electric utility or electric service provider, the
                                   following information, aggregated by Counterparty, where
                                   applicable:

                                   IV.C.1.b.(ii)(A) For all imported electricity, the quantity of
                                           electricity, and associated GHG emissions, including the
                                           emissions factors and emissions-factor basis, imported
                                           directly from owned generation or contracted generation
                                           located outside the State of Colorado, the quantity of
                                           electricity and associated GHG emissions, including the
                                           emissions factors and emissions-factor basis, purchased
                                           at Transaction Points located outside the State of
                                           Colorado and imported into Colorado, and the quantity of
                                           electricity and associated GHG emissions, including the
                                           emissions factors and emissions-factor basis, sold from
                                           out of state generation at Transaction Points within the
                                           State of Colorado;

                                   IV.C.1.b.(ii)(B) For all exported electricity, the quantity of
                                           electricity, and associated GHG emissions, including the
                                           emissions factors and emissions-factor basis, delivered
                                           to Transaction Points outside the State of Colorado; and

                           IV.C.1.b.(iii)   For each wholesale or retail utility, the quantity of
                                   renewable energy credits including vintage year acquired and
                                   transferred through energy transactions, sold, or retired to meet
                                   Colorado renewable energy standards.




                                                                                                            9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


              IV.C.2. The data elements necessary for the Division to track the progress of GHG
                      reductions from plans that have been approved by the Public Utilities
                      Commission, including but not limited to Clean Energy Plans filed in accordance
                      with § 40-2-125.5, C.R.S. (May 30, 2019). Progress tracking after a plan has
                      been approved will inform development, assessment, and refinement of
                      strategies to achieve the statewide greenhouse gas targets. Data collection
                      pursuant to this Section IV.C.2. begins on January 1 of the year following
                      approval of a plan, and the first report is due no later than June 30 of the year
                      following the first year of data collection and annually thereafter.

                      IV.C.2.a.       In reporting the requirements of this Section IV.C.2., the electric
                              service provider or electric utility will:

                              IV.C.2.a.(i)    Use the annual reporting form published by the Division,
                                      which is to be consistent with the methods, forms, or reports
                                      used for filings to the Public Utilities Commission.

                              IV.C.2.a.(ii)     Use references to information submitted to the Public
                                      Utilities Commission as support for data elements reported on
                                      the form in lieu of submitting duplicative information to the
                                      Division.

                      IV.C.2.b.        The data elements that must be reported pursuant to Section
                              IV.C.2. include, but are not limited to:

                              IV.C.2.b.(i)    Calculations of percent CO2 and percent GHG
                                      reductions from the 2005 baseline emissions approved in the
                                      plan. For utilities that conduct both retail and wholesale sales,
                                      percent reduction calculations must be provided based on retail
                                      sales only as well as for total combined retail and wholesale
                                      sales.

                              IV.C.2.b.(ii)    A statement of the GHG accounting methodology used
                                      in the approved plan and percent reduction calculations, and any
                                      changes to that methodology if they occur for the reporting year.
                                      If methodology changes occur, supporting data for both the
                                      reporting year and baseline year must be provided to verify the
                                      percent reduction calculations.

                              IV.C.2.b.(iii)  Changes in service territory from that identified in the
                                      approved plan that may impact the baseline values and percent
                                      reduction calculations.

                              IV.C.2.b.(iv)    Plan Revisions filed with the Public Utilities Commission
                                      that are awaiting approval.

                              IV.C.2.b.(v)    The number of renewable energy credits used for
                                      compliance with a Clean Energy Plan with the same vintage as
                                      the reporting year, that are generated and retired during the
                                      year.

      IV.D.   Report Revisions Due to Substantive Errors

              IV.D.1. A substantive error is an error that impacts the quantity of GHG emissions
                      reported or otherwise prevents the reported data from being validated or verified.




                                                                                                        10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


              IV.D.2. If one or more substantive errors as defined in Section IV.D.1. are discovered in
                      a previously submitted GHG report by an entity responsible for preparing or
                      submitting the report, or providing data for the report, the Division must be
                      notified in writing of the errors within five (5) business days of discovery of the
                      errors and a revised report that corrects the substantive errors must be submitted
                      within forty-five (45) days of the discovery of the errors.

              IV.D.3. If the Division identifies substantive errors in a submitted report, the Division may
                      notify the entity responsible for the report of the errors and a revised report that
                      corrects the substantive errors must be submitted within forty-five (45) days of
                      the notification.

              IV.D.4. The Division may provide reasonable extensions of the forty-five day (45) period
                      for submission of a revised report on a case-by-case basis when requested in
                      writing by the reporting entity. The extension request must include details on why
                      the request is being made and the additional requested time needed to submit
                      the revised report.

V.    Recordkeeping Requirements

      V.A.    All data elements and reports listed must be retained by the owners and operators of
              facilities or entities reporting under Section III.A. and be provided to the Division upon
              request:

              V.A.1. All records of supporting documentation used to prepare and submit the GHG
                     report, including but not limited to:

                      V.A.1.a.          All units, operations, processes, and activities for which GHG
                                 emissions were calculated.

                      V.A.1.b.         Operating data, fuel use records, or process information used for
                                 GHG emissions calculations.

                      V.A.1.c.            GHG emissions calculations and methods used, including a
                                 written explanation if emission calculation methodologies used during the
                                 reporting period are changed.

                      V.A.1.d.            Any records required to be retained pursuant to Subpart A of 40
                                 CFR, Part 98 and the applicable Subparts of 40 CFR, Part 98 identified
                                 in Section III.B.

              V.A.2. Reports submitted pursuant to the requirements of Section IV.

      V.B.    Records required under this Section V. must be maintained for five (5) years from the
              date of submission of the annual GHG report.

PART B        Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Requirements

I.    Prohibitions on Use of Certain Hydrofluorocarbons in Aerosol Propellants, Chillers, Foam, and
      Stationary Refrigeration End-Uses

      I.A.    Purpose and Applicability




                                                                                                           11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.A.1.   The purpose of this regulation is to reduce hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) emissions in
                      the State of Colorado by adopting United States Environmental Protection
                      Agency (EPA) Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) Program prohibitions
                      for certain HFCs in air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, aerosol
                      propellants, and foam end-uses. This regulation is designed to support
                      greenhouse gas emission reductions identified in Colorado Revised Statutes, §
                      25-7-102(2)(g).

             I.A.2.   This regulation applies to any person, who on or after June 1, 2020, sells, offers
                      for sale, leases, rents, installs, uses, or manufacturers in the State of Colorado
                      any product or equipment that uses or will use a substance listed as prohibited in
                      the end-uses listed in Section I.E.1.

      I.B.   Definitions

             I.B.1.   “Aerosol Propellant” means a liquefied or compressed gas that is used in whole
                      or in part, such as a cosolvent, to expel a liquid or other material from the same
                      self-pressurized container or from a separate container.

             I.B.2.   “Air Conditioning Equipment” means chillers, both centrifugal chillers and positive
                      displacement chillers, intended for comfort cooling of occupied spaces.

             I.B.3.   “Bunstock” or “Bun Stock” means a large solid box-like structure formed during
                      the production of polyurethane, polyisocyanurate, phenolic, or polystyrene
                      insulation.

             I.B.4.   “Capital Cost” means an expense incurred in the production of goods or in
                      rendering services including but not limited to the cost of engineering, purchase,
                      and installation of components and/or systems, and instrumentation, and
                      contractor and construction fees.

             I.B.5.   “Centrifugal Chiller” means air conditioning equipment that utilizes a centrifugal
                      compressor in a vapor-compression refrigeration cycle typically used for
                      commercial comfort air conditioning. Centrifugal chiller in this definition is a chiller
                      intended for comfort cooling and does not include cooling for industrial process
                      cooling and refrigeration.

             I.B.6.   “Cold Storage Warehouse” means a cooled facility designed to store meat,
                      produce, dairy products, and other products that are delivered to other locations
                      for sale to the ultimate consumer.

             I.B.7.   “Component” means a part of a refrigeration system, including but not limited to
                      condensing units, compressors, condensers, evaporators, and receivers; and all
                      of its connections and subassemblies, without which the refrigeration system will
                      not properly function or will be subject to failures.

             I.B.8.   “Cumulatively Replaced” means the addition of, or change in, multiple
                      components within a three-year period.

             I.B.9.   “Date of Prohibition” means the applicable date after which the prohibition for use
                      of HFCs in a specific end-use provided in Section I.E. goes into effect.

             I.B.10. ‘‘End-Use’’ means processes or classes of specific applications within industry
                     sectors, including but not limited to those listed in Section I.E.




                                                                                                           12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.B.11. “Flexible Polyurethane” means a non-rigid synthetic foam containing polymers
                     created by the reaction of isocyanate and polyol, including but not limited to that
                     used in furniture, bedding, and chair cushions.

             I.B.12. “Foam” means a product with a cellular structure formed via a foaming process in
                     a variety of materials that undergo hardening via a chemical reaction or phase
                     transition.

             I.B.13. “Foam Blowing Agent” means a substance used to produce foam.

             I.B.14. “Household Refrigerators and Freezers” means refrigerators, refrigerator-
                     freezers, freezers, and miscellaneous household refrigeration appliances
                     intended for residential use. For the purposes of this regulation, “household
                     refrigerators and freezers” does not include “household refrigerators and freezers
                     - compact”, or “household refrigerators and freezers - built-in.”

             I.B.15. “Household Refrigerators and Freezers - Compact” means any refrigerator,
                     refrigerator-freezer or freezer intended for residential use with a total refrigerated
                     volume of less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters).

             I.B.16. “Household Refrigerators and Freezers - Built-In” means any refrigerator,
                     refrigerator-freezer or freezer intended for residential use with 7.75 cubic feet or
                     greater total volume and 24 inches or less depth not including doors, handles,
                     and custom front panels; with sides which are not finished and not designed to
                     be visible after installation; and that is designed, intended, and marketed
                     exclusively to be: installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are
                     attached during installation; securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or
                     floor; and equipped with an integral factory-finished face or accept a custom front
                     panel.

             I.B.17. “Hydrofluorocarbons” or “HFC” means a class of greenhouse gases (GHGs)
                     consisting of hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon.

             I.B.18. “Integral Skin Polyurethane” means a synthetic self-skinning foam containing
                     polyurethane polymers formed by the reaction of an isocyanate and a polyol,
                     including but not limited to that used in car steering wheels and dashboards.

             I.B.19. “Manufacturer” means any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
                     governmental entity, organization, or joint venture that produces any product that
                     contains or uses HFCs or is an importer or domestic distributor of such a product.

             I.B.20. “Metered Dose Inhaler,” or “Medical Dose Inhaler,” or “MDI” means a device that
                     delivers a measured amount of medication as a mist that a patient can inhale,
                     typically used for bronchodilation to treat symptoms of asthma, chronic
                     obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and
                     other respiratory illnesses. An MDI consists of a pressurized canister of
                     medication in a case with a mouthpiece.

             I.B.23. “Motor-Bearing” means refrigeration equipment containing motorized parts,
                     including compressors, condensers, and evaporators.




                                                                                                         13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.B.24. “New” means products or equipment that are manufactured after the date of
                     prohibition or equipment first installed for an intended purpose with new or used
                     components after the date of prohibition, expanded by the addition of
                     components to increase system capacity after the date of prohibition, or replaced
                     or cumulatively replaced such that the cumulative capital cost of replacement
                     after the date of prohibition exceeds 50% of the capital cost of replacing the
                     whole system. For the purposes of this rule, a supermarket system is considered
                     manufactured on the date upon which the refrigerant circuit is complete, the
                     system can function, the system holds a full refrigerant charge, and the system is
                     ready for use for its intended purposes.

             I.B.25. “Phenolic Insulation Board” means phenolic insulation including but not limited to
                     that used for roofing and wall insulation.

             I.B.26. “Polyolefin” means foam sheets and tubes made of polyolefin.

             I.B.27. “Polystyrene Extruded Boardstock and Billet (XPS)” means a foam formed from
                     predominantly styrene monomer and produced on extruding machines in the
                     form of continuous foam slabs which can be cut and shaped into panels used for
                     roofing, walls, and flooring.

             I.B.28. “Polystyrene Extruded Sheet” means polystyrene foam including that used for
                     packaging. It is also made into food-service items, including hinged polystyrene
                     containers (for “take-out” from restaurants); food trays (meat and poultry) plates,
                     bowls, and retail egg containers.

             I.B.29. “Positive Displacement Chiller” means vapor compression cycle chillers that use
                     positive displacement compressors, typically used for commercial comfort air
                     conditioning. Positive displacement chiller in this definition is a chiller intended for
                     comfort cooling and does not include cooling for industrial process cooling and
                     refrigeration.

             I.B.30. “Refrigerant” or “Refrigerant Gas” means any substance, including blends and
                     mixtures, which is used for heat transfer purposes.

             I.B.31. “Refrigerated Food Processing and Dispensing Equipment” means retail food
                     refrigeration equipment that is designed to process food and beverages
                     dispensed via a nozzle that are intended for immediate or near-immediate
                     consumption, including but not limited to chilled and frozen beverages, ice
                     cream, and whipped cream. This end-use excludes water coolers, or units
                     designed solely to cool and dispense water.

             I.B.32. “Refrigeration Equipment” means any stationary device that is designed to
                     contain and use refrigerant gas, including but not limited to retail or commercial
                     refrigeration equipment, household refrigerators and freezers, and cold storage
                     warehouses.

             I.B.33. “Remote Condensing Units” means retail refrigeration equipment or units that
                     have a central condensing portion and may consist of compressor(s),
                     condenser(s), and receiver(s) assembled into a single unit, which may be located
                     external to the sales area. The condensing portion (and often other parts of the
                     system) is located outside the space or area cooled by the evaporator. Remote
                     condensing units are commonly installed in convenience stores, specialty shops
                     (e.g., bakeries, butcher shops), supermarkets, restaurants, and other locations
                     where food is stored, served, or sold.




                                                                                                          14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.B.34. “Residential Use” means use by a private individual of a substance, or a product
                     containing the substance, in or around a permanent or temporary household,
                     during recreation, or for any personal use or enjoyment. Use within a household
                     for commercial or medical applications is not included in this definition, nor is use
                     in automobiles, watercraft, or aircraft.

             I.B.35. “Retail Food Refrigeration” or “Commercial Refrigeration” means equipment
                     designed to store and display chilled or frozen goods for commercial sale
                     including but not limited to stand-alone units, refrigerated food processing and
                     dispensing equipment, remote condensing units, supermarket systems, and
                     vending machines.

             I.B.36. “Retrofit” means to convert a system from one refrigerant to another refrigerant.
                     Retrofitting includes the conversion of the system to achieve system compatibility
                     with the new refrigerant and may include, but is not limited to, changes in
                     lubricants, gaskets, filters, driers, valves, O-rings, or system components.

             I.B.37. “Rigid Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate Laminated Boardstock” means
                     laminated board insulation made with polyurethane or polyisocyanurate foam,
                     including that used for roofing and wall insulation.

             I.B.38. “Rigid Polyurethane Appliance Foam” means polyurethane insulation foam in
                     household appliances.

             I.B.39. “Rigid Polyurethane Commercial Refrigeration and Sandwich Panels” means
                     polyurethane insulation for use in walls and doors, including that used for
                     commercial refrigeration equipment, and used in doors, including garage doors.

             I.B.40. “Rigid Polyurethane High-Pressure Two-component Spray Foam” means a foam
                     product that is sold in pressurized containers as two parts (i.e., A-side and B-
                     side) in non-pressurized containers that are blown and applied in situ using high-
                     pressure pumps at 800-1600 pounds per square inch (psi) and an application
                     gun to propel the foam components, and may use liquid blowing agents without
                     an additional propellant.

             I.B.41. “Rigid Polyurethane Low-Pressure Two-Component Spray Foam” means a foam
                     product that is sold as two parts (i.e., A-side and B-side) in containers that are
                     pressurized to less than 250 psi that is typically applied in situ relying upon a
                     gaseous foam blowing agent that also serves as a propellant so pumps typically
                     are not needed.

             I.B.42. “Rigid Polyurethane Marine Flotation Foam” means buoyancy or flotation foam
                     used in boat and ship manufacturing for both structural and flotation purposes.

             I.B.43. “Rigid Polyurethane Slabstock and Other” means a rigid closed-cell foam
                     containing urethane polymers produced by the reaction of an isocyanate and a
                     polyol and formed into slabstock insulation for panels and fabricated shapes for
                     pipes and vessels.

             I.B.44. “Stand-Alone Unit” means retail refrigerators, freezers, and reach-in coolers
                     (either open or with doors) where all refrigeration components are integrated and
                     the refrigeration circuit may be entirely brazed or welded. These systems are fully
                     charged with refrigerant at the factory and typically require only an electricity
                     supply to begin operation.




                                                                                                        15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.B.45. “Stand-Alone Low-Temperature Unit” means a stand-alone unit that maintains
                     food or beverages at temperatures at or below 32°F (0 °C).

             I.B.46. “Stand-Alone Medium-Temperature Unit” means a stand-alone unit that
                     maintains food or beverages at temperatures above 32°F (0 °C).

             I.B.47. “Substance” means any chemical intended for use in the end-uses listed in
                     Section I.E of this regulation.

             I.B.48. “Supermarket Systems” means multiplex or centralized retail food refrigeration
                     equipment systems designed to cool or refrigerate, which typically operate with
                     racks of compressors installed in a machinery room and which includes both
                     direct and indirect systems.

             I.B.49. “Use” means any utilization of any substance, including but not limited to
                     utilization in a manufacturing process or product in the State of Colorado,
                     consumption by the end-user in the State of Colorado, or in intermediate
                     applications in the State of Colorado, such as formulation or packaging for other
                     subsequent applications. For the purposes of this regulation, use excludes
                     residential use, but it does not exclude manufacturing for the purpose of
                     residential use.

             I.B.50. “Vending Machine” means a self-contained unit that dispenses goods that must
                     be kept cold or frozen.

      I.C.   Requirements

             I.C.1.   Prohibitions

                      I.C.1.a. No person may sell, lease, rent, install, use, or manufacture in the State
                               of Colorado, any product or equipment using a prohibited substance for
                               any air-conditioning, refrigeration, foam, or aerosol propellant end-use
                               listed in Section I.E.1.

             I.C.2.   Exemptions.

                      I.C.2.a. Except where an existing system is retrofit after the date of prohibition,
                               nothing in this regulation requires a person that acquired a product or
                               equipment containing a prohibited substance prior to the applicable date
                               of prohibition in Section I.E.1. to cease use of that product or equipment.
                               Products or equipment manufactured prior to the applicable date of
                               prohibition specified in Table 1 of Section I.E.1 (including spray foam
                               systems not yet applied on site) may be sold, imported, exported,
                               distributed, installed, serviced, and used after the specified date of
                               prohibition.

                      I.C.2.b. End-uses that are exempted from Part B, Section I. of this regulation are
                               provided for in Section I.E.2.

             I.C.3.   Alternative Compliance

                      I.C.3.a. This regulation does not prohibit a manufacturer of positive displacement
                               chillers in the State of Colorado from the use of prohibited substances in
                               Section I.E.1. provided that the manufacturer meets the following
                               requirements:




                                                                                                        16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                            5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                          I.C.3.a.(i)      The manufacturer otherwise meets all other applicable
                                   requirements of Section I.D.

                          I.C.3.a.(ii)       The manufacturer only uses the prohibited substances to
                                   manufacture or test positive displacement chillers designated for
                                   installation outside the State of Colorado.

                          I.C.3.a.(iii)       The manufacturer submits a mitigation plan for
                                   emissions from prohibited substances from the manufacturing
                                   facility (including testing) to the Division no later than December
                                   31, 2021 or prior to manufacturing or testing positive
                                   displacement chillers that use prohibited substances in the State
                                   of Colorado if no manufacturing or testing occurred on or before
                                   December 31, 2021. The plan must be approved by the Division
                                   and include:

                                  I.C.3.a.(iii)(A) Details of emission mitigation efforts whether
                                           planned or implemented at the manufacturing facility,
                                           including dates of completion for any planned efforts.

                                  I.C.3.a.(iii)(B) Projections of annual emissions from prohibited
                                           substances from the manufacturing facility, including
                                           emissions associated with manufacturing and testing,
                                           covering at least ten (10) calendar years from the date
                                           the plan is submitted.

                          I.C.3.a.(iv)      The manufacturer must report actual emissions from
                                   prohibited substances to the Division on an annual basis for the
                                   prior calendar year no later than March 31 after the calendar
                                   year ends.

                                  I.C.3.a.(iv)(A) For manufacturers producing or testing positive
                                           displacement chillers in the State of Colorado on or
                                           before December 31, 2021, the first emissions report is
                                           due March 31, 2023 for calendar year 2022.

                                  I.C.3.a.(iv)(B) For manufacturers that first produce or test
                                           positive displacement chillers in the State of Colorado
                                           after December 31, 2021, the first emissions report is
                                           due March 31 following the first calendar year during
                                           which any emissions from prohibited substances
                                           occurred.

                                  I.C.3.a.(iv)(C) Annual emissions reporting must continue until
                                           the manufacturer has fully transitioned from use of
                                           prohibited substances for positive displacement chillers
                                           listed in Section I.E.1.

                                  I.C.3.a.(iv)(D) Emissions must be reported in metric tons for
                                           each prohibited substance.




                                                                                                     17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                              I.C.3.a.(v)       The manufacturer must complete project(s) within the
                                       State of Colorado that reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an
                                       amount equal to or greater than any projected annual carbon
                                       dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions not reduced for calendar
                                       years 2024 and beyond as part of the emissions mitigation plan
                                       identified in Section I.C.3.a.(iii).

                                      I.C.3.a.(v)(A) Proposals for projects required under this
                                               section may be submitted as part of the emissions
                                               mitigation plan but must be submitted no later than one
                                               (1) year after approval of the mitigation plan and must be
                                               approved by the Division prior to execution.

                                      I.C.3.a.(v)(B) Emission reductions from approved project(s)
                                               may be applied to multiple calendar years of unmitigated
                                               emissions when the projected reductions are greater
                                               than the projected unmitigated emissions on a CO2e
                                               basis.

                                      I.C.3.a.(v)(C) A completion report for each project must be
                                               submitted to the Division no later than ninety (90) days
                                               after the project is completed and must include the
                                               details of project work completed, the amount of CO2e
                                               emissions reduced or avoided over the lifetime of the
                                               project, and any estimated benefits or co-benefits to the
                                               environment and community in which the project is
                                               located.

      I.D.   Disclosure Statement and Recordkeeping

             I.D.1.   Disclosure Statement

                      I.D.1.a. Any person who manufactures or sells in the State of Colorado a product
                               or equipment in the air-conditioning, refrigeration, foam, or aerosol
                               propellant end-uses listed in Section I.E.1., must provide a written
                               disclosure to the buyer as part of the sales transaction and invoice or a
                               label on the product or equipment as of the applicable date of prohibition
                               for the end-use in Section I.E.1.

                              I.D.1.a.(i)       For motor-bearing refrigeration and air-conditioning
                                       equipment that is not factory-charged or pre-charged with
                                       refrigerant, the disclosure or label must state:

                                      “This equipment is prohibited from using any substance on the
                                      “List of Prohibited Substances” for that specific end-use, in
                                      accordance with State regulations for hydrofluorocarbons.”

                              I.D.1.a.(ii)      Except for products and equipment with existing labeling
                                       required by state or local building codes and safety standards
                                       which contain the information required in this Section I.D.2.a.ii.,
                                       the disclosure or label for refrigeration and air-conditioning
                                       equipment that are factory-charged or pre-charged with an HFC
                                       or HFC blend must include the date of manufacture and the
                                       refrigerant and foam blowing agent the product or equipment
                                       contains.




                                                                                                        18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                         5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                                     I.D.1.a.(iii)    For foam, the disclosure or label must include the date of
                                              manufacture and hydrofluorocarbon the product contains or the
                                              hydrofluorocarbon used to make the product. Alternatively, the
                                              disclosure or label may state: “Where sold, compliant with State
                                              HFC regulations.”

                                     I.D.1.a.(iv)     For aerosol propellant products, the disclosure or label
                                              must include the date of manufacture and the hydrofluorocarbon
                                              the product contains or the hydrofluorocarbon used to make the
                                              product. Alternatively, the disclosure requirement may be met if
                                              the hydrofluorocarbon the product contains or the
                                              hydrofluorocarbon used to make the product is listed in a Safety
                                              Data Sheet for the product that complies with the requirements
                                              of 29 CFR 1910.1200 (effective February 8, 2013).

                  I.D.2.     Recordkeeping

                             I.D.2.a. Any person who manufactures any product or equipment in the end uses
                                      listed in Section I.E.1. for sale or entry into commerce in the State of
                                      Colorado must maintain records sufficient to demonstrate that the
                                      product or equipment does not contain applicable prohibited substances
                                      listed in Section I.E.1. as of the date of prohibition for that end-use or that
                                      the product or equipment is exempt in accordance with Section I.E.2.

                             I.D.2.b. Records must be maintained for five (5) years and made available to the
                                      Division upon request.

          I.E.    List of Prohibited Substances and Exemptions

                  I.E.1.     Table 1 lists prohibited substances in specific end-uses and the date of
                             prohibition for each end-use, unless an exemption is provided for in Section I.E.2.



Table 1: End-Use, Prohibited Substances, and Date of Prohibition

End-Use Category: Aerosol Propellants

End-Use                    Prohibited Substances                                                   Date of Prohibition

Aerosol Propellants        HFC-125, HFC-134a, HFC-227ea and blends of HFC-227ea and                January 1, 2021
                           HFC-134a

End-Use Category: Air Conditioning

End-Use                    Prohibited Substances                                                   Date of Prohibition

Centrifugal Chillers       FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, HFC-227ea, HFC-236fa, HFC245fa, R-            January 1, 2024
(New)                      125/ 134a/ 600a (28.1/70/1.9), R-125/ 290/ 134a/ 600a
                           (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R-407C, R-410A, R-410B, R-417A, R-
                           421A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R-423A, R-424A, R-434A, R438A, R-
                           507A, RS-44 (2003 composition), THR-03

Positive Displacement      FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, HFC-227ea, KDD6, R125/ 134a/ 600a             January 1, 2024
Chillers (New)             (28.1/70/1.9), R-125/ 290/ 134a/ 600a (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R-
                           407C, R-410A, R-410B, R-417A, R-421A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R-
                           424A, R-434A, R-437A, R438A, R-507A, RS-44 (2003 composition),
                           SP34E, THR-03




                                                                                                                  19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Table 1: End-Use, Prohibited Substances, and Date of Prohibition

End-Use Category: Refrigeration

End-Use                 Prohibited Substances                                                Date of Prohibition

Cold Storage            HFC-227ea, R-125/290/134a/600a (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R404A, R-407A,   January 1, 2023
Warehouses (New)        R-407B, R-410A, R-410B, R-417A, R-421A, R421B, R-422A, R-422B,
                        R-422C, R-422D, R-423A, R-424A, R428A, R-434A, R-438A, R-507A,
                        RS-44 (2003 composition)

Household               FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, KDD6, R-125/290/134a/600a                  January 1, 2022
Refrigerators and       (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B,
Freezers (New)          R-417A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R424A,
                        R-426A, R-428A, R-434A, R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS24 (2002
                        formulation), RS-44 (2003 formulation), SP34E, THR-03

Household               FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, KDD6, R-125/290/134a/600a                  January 1, 2021
Refrigerators and       (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B,
Freezers—Compact        R-417A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R424A,
(New)                   R-426A, R-428A, R-434A, R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS24 (2002
                        formulation), RS-44 (2003 formulation), SP34E, THR-03

Household               FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, KDD6, R-125/290/134a/600a                  January 1, 2023
Refrigerators and       (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B,
Freezers—Built-in       R-417A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R424A,
(New)                   R-426A, R-428A, R-434A, R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS24 (2002
                        formulation), RS-44 (2003 formulation), SP34E, THR-03

Supermarket Systems     R-404A, R-407B, R-421B, R-422A, R-422C, R-422D, R428A, R-434A,       January 1, 2021
(Retrofit)              R-507A

Supermarket Systems     HFC-227ea, R-404A, R-407B, R-421B, R-422A, R-422C, R-422D,           January 1, 2021
(New)                   R-428A, R-434A, R-507A

Remote Condensing       R-404A, R-407B, R-421B, R-422A, R-422C, R-422D, R428A, R-434A,       January 1, 2021
Units (Retrofit)        R-507A

Remote Condensing       HFC-227ea, R-404A, R-407B, R-421B, R-422A, R-422C, R-422D,           January 1, 2021
Units (New)             R-428A, R-434A, R-507A

Stand-alone Units       R-404A, R-507A                                                       January 1, 2021
(Retrofit)

Stand-alone Medium-     FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, HFC-227ea, KDD6,                           January 1, 2021
Temperature Units       R125/290/134a/600a (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R407A, R-407B,
(New)                   R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B, R417A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A,
                        R-422B, R-422C, R422D, R-424A, R-426A, R-428A, R-434A, R-437A,
                        R438A, R-507A, RS-24 (2002 formulation), RS-44 (2003 formulation),
                        SP34E, THR-03

Stand-alone Low-        HFC-227ea, KDD6, R-125/290/134a/600a (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A,    January 1, 2021
Temperature Units       R-407A, R-407B, R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B, R-417A, R-421A,
(New)                   R-421B, R422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R-424A, R-428A, R434A,
                        R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS-44 (2003 formulation)

Refrigerated Food       HFC-227ea, KDD6, R-125/ 290/ 134a/ 600a (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5),         January 1, 2021
Processing and          R-404A, R-407A, R-407B, R-407C, R-407F, R-410A, R-410B, R417A,
Dispensing              R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R424A, R-428A,
Equipment (New)         R-434A, R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS-44 (2003 formulation)




                                                                                                            20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Table 1: End-Use, Prohibited Substances, and Date of Prohibition

Vending Machines        FOR12A, FOR12B, HFC-134a, KDD6, R125/290/134a/600a
(New)                   (55.0/1.0/42.5/1.5), R-404A, R407C, R-410A, R-410B, R-417A, R-421A,   January 1, 2022
                        R-422B, R422C, R-422D, R-426A, R-437A, R-438A, R-507A, RS-24
                        (2002 formulation), SP34E

Vending Machines        R-404A, R-507A                                                        January 1, 2021
(Retrofit)

End-Use Category: Foams

End-Use                 Prohibited Substances                                                 Date of Prohibition

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof                   January 1, 2021
and Polyisocyanurate
Laminated
Boardstock

Flexible Polyurethane   HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof                   January 1, 2021

Integral Skin           HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof; Formacel TI,     January 1, 2021
Polyurethane            Formacel Z-6

Polystyrene Extruded    HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof; Formacel TI,     January 1, 2021
Sheet                   Formacel Z-6

Phenolic Insulation     HFC-143a, HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof         January 1, 2021
Board and Bunstock

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc and blends thereof; Formacel TI,      January 1, 2021
Slabstock and Other     Formacel Z-6

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc and blends thereof; Formacel TI,      January 1, 2021
Appliance Foam          Formacel Z-6

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof; Formacel TI,     January 1, 2021
Commercial              Formacel Z-6
Refrigeration and
Sandwich Panels

Polyolefin              HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof; Formacel TI,     January 1, 2021
                        Formacel Z-6

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc and blends thereof; Formacel TI,      January 1, 2021
Marine Flotation        Formacel Z-6
Foam

Polystyrene Extruded    HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, HFC-365mfc, and blends thereof; Formacel TI,     January 1, 2021
Boardstock and Billet   Formacel B, Formacel Z-6
(XPS)

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, and blends thereof; blends of HFC365mfc with     January 1, 2021
High-pressure Two-      at least 4 percent HFC-245fa, and commercial blends of HFC-365mfc
component Spray         with 7 to 13 percent HFC-227ea and the remainder HFC-365mfc;
Foam                    Formacel TI




                                                                                                             21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Table 1: End-Use, Prohibited Substances, and Date of Prohibition

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, and blends thereof; blends of HFC365mfc with   January 1, 2021
Low-pressure Two-       at least 4 percent HFC-245fa, and commercial blends of HFC-365mfc
component Spray         with 7 to 13 percent HFC-227ea and the remainder HFC-365mfc;
Foam                    Formacel TI

Rigid Polyurethane      HFC-134a, HFC-245fa, and blends thereof; blends of HFC365mfc with   January 1, 2021
One-component foam      at least 4 percent HFC-245fa, and commercial blends of HFC-365mfc
sealants                with 7 to 13 percent HFC-227ea and the remainder HFC-365mfc;
                        Formacel TI




                                                                                                          22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                           5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission



                   I.E.2.   Table 2 lists exemptions to the prohibitions in Section I.E.1.



Table 2: Exemptions

End-Use Category            Prohibited Substances    Acceptable Uses

Aerosol Propellants         HFC-134a                 Cleaning products for removal of grease, flux and other soils
                                                     from electrical equipment; refrigerant flushes; products for
                                                     sensitivity testing of smoke detectors; lubricants and freeze
                                                     sprays for electrical equipment or electronics; sprays for aircraft
                                                     maintenance; sprays containing corrosion preventive
                                                     compounds used in the maintenance of aircraft, electrical
                                                     equipment or electronics, or military equipment; pesticides for
                                                     use near electrical wires, in aircraft, in total release insecticide
                                                     foggers, or in certified organic use pesticides for which EPA has
                                                     specifically disallowed all other lower-GWP propellants; mold
                                                     release agents and mold cleaners; lubricants and cleaners for
                                                     spinnerettes for synthetic fabrics; duster sprays specifically for
                                                     removal of dust from photographic negatives, semiconductor
                                                     chips, specimens under electron microscopes, and energized
                                                     electrical equipment; adhesives and sealants in large canisters;
                                                     document preservation sprays; U.S. Food and Drug
                                                     Administration (FDA)-approved MDIs for medical purposes;
                                                     wound care sprays; topical coolant sprays for pain relief;
                                                     products for removing bandage adhesives from skin; bear
                                                     spray; and law enforcement pepper spray.

Aerosol Propellants         HFC-227ea and blends     FDA-approved MDIs for medical purposes.
                            of HFC-227ea and
                            HFC-134a

Air Conditioning            HFC–134a                 Military marine vessels where reasonable efforts have been
                                                     made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically
                                                     feasible due to performance or safety requirements.

Air Conditioning            HFC-134a and R-404A      Human-rated spacecraft and related support equipment where
                                                     reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other
                                                     alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or
                                                     safety requirements.

Foams – Except Rigid        All substances           Military applications where reasonable efforts have been made
polyurethane spray                                   to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible
foam                                                 due to performance or safety requirements until January 1,
                                                     2022.

Foams – Except Rigid        All substances           Space- and aeronautics-related applications where reasonable
polyurethane spray                                   efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are
foam                                                 not technically feasible due to performance or safety
                                                     requirements until January 1, 2025.

Rigid polyurethane          All substances           Military or space- and aeronautics-related applications where
two-component spray                                  reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other
foam                                                 alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or
                                                     safety requirements until January 1, 2025.




                                                                                                                     23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


II.    Removed and placed in Regulation Number 27 April 20, 2023.

III.   Removed and placed in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII. April 20, 2023.

IV.    Removed and placed in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VIII. April 20, 2023.




                                                                                                    24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission



PART C       Recovered Methane

I.    Recovered Methane Protocols and Crediting and Tracking System

      I.A.   Applicability

             I.A.1.   This Part C applies to projects for the generation of recovered methane credits
                      used in clean heat plans for gas distribution utilities, municipal gas distribution
                      utilities, or small gas distribution utilities.

             I.A.2.   Only recovered methane produced on or after the effective date of this rule shall
                      be eligible for recovered methane credits.

      I.B.   Definitions

             I.B.1.   "Active Coal Mine" means a coal mine where any one of the following five
                      conditions apply.

                      I.B.1.a. Mine development is underway.

                      I.B.1.b. Coal has been produced within the last 90 days.

                      I.B.1.c. Mine personnel are present in the mine workings.

                      I.B.1.d. Mine ventilation fans are operative.

                      I.B.1.e. The mine is designated as an “intermittent” mine by the Mine Safety and
                               Health Administration (MSHA).

             I.B.2.   “Anaerobic digester” means a system where wastes are collected in containment
                      vessels or covered lagoons where organic material is broken down by bacterial
                      microorganisms in an oxygen-free environment. Anaerobic digesters stabilize
                      waste by the microbial reduction of complex organic compounds to carbon
                      dioxide and methane.

             I.B.3.   “Biomethane” means a mixture of carbon dioxide and hydrocarbons released
                      from the biological decomposition of organic materials that is primarily methane
                      and provides a net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and includes
                      biomethane recovered from manure management systems or anaerobic
                      digesters that has been processed to meet pipeline quality.

             I.B.4.   “Clean heat plan” means a comprehensive plan submitted by a gas distribution
                      utility or small gas distribution utility to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission,
                      or by a municipal gas distribution utility to the Division, that demonstrates
                      projected reductions in methane and carbon dioxide emissions that, together,
                      meet the required reductions for gas distribution utilities under § 40-3.2-108,
                      C.R.S. or for municipal gas distribution utilities under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.8),
                      C.R.S., or the proposed reductions in the plan for small gas distribution utilities,
                      at the lowest reasonable cost.

             I.B.5.   “Coal mine methane” means methane captured from active and inactive coal
                      mines where the methane is escaping to the atmosphere. In the case of methane
                      escaping from active mines, only methane vented in the normal course of mine
                      operations that is naturally escaping to the atmosphere is coal mine methane.




                                                                                                            25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.B.6.   “Credit generation date” means the earliest date that a recovered methane credit
                      is first issued on any carbon offset registry, such as with ACR or the Climate
                      Action Reserve Offset Program, or the Division’s recovered methane crediting
                      and tracking system.

             I.B.7.   “Dedicated pipeline” means a conveyance of recovered methane that is not a
                      part of a common carrier pipeline system, and which conveys recovered methane
                      from where it is generated to a common carrier pipeline or to the end user in
                      Colorado for which the recovered methane was produced so long as the
                      recovered methane replaces geological gas supplied by a gas distribution utility,
                      small gas distribution utility, or municipal gas distribution utility.

             I.B.8.   "Domestic Wastewater Treatment Plant" has the same meaning as defined by
                      the Water Quality Control Commission in 5 Code of Colo. Regs. (CCR) 1002-22
                      (June 14, 2020).

             I.B.9.   “Gas distribution utility” means a public utility providing gas service to more than
                      ninety thousand retail customers. Gas distribution utility does not include a
                      municipal gas distribution utility.

             I.B.10. “Gas system leaks” means methane that would have leaked without repairs of
                     the gas distribution and service pipelines from the city gate to customer end use.

             I.B.11. “Geological gas” means methane and other hydrocarbons that occur
                     underground without human intervention and are used as fuel.

             I.B.12. “Inactive Coal Mine” means a coal mine where none of the conditions in Section
                     I.B.1. apply.

             I.B.13. “Municipal gas distribution utility” means a municipally owned utility that provides
                     gas service to more than ninety thousand customers.

             I.B.14. “Pyrolysis” means the thermochemical decomposition of material at elevated
                     temperatures without the participation of oxygen.

             I.B.15. “Recovered methane” means any of the following that are located in Colorado,
                     and meet a recovered methane protocol in Section I.C., and is delivered to or
                     within Colorado through a dedicated pipeline or through a common carrier
                     pipeline if the source of the recovered methane injects the recovered methane
                     into a common carrier pipeline that physically flows within Colorado or toward the
                     end user in Colorado for which the recovered methane was produced.

                      I.B.15.a.        Biomethane

                      I.B.15.b.         Coal mine methane where capture is not otherwise required by
                               state or federal law.

                      I.B.15.c.        Gas system leaks

                      I.B.15.d.        Methane derived from:

                              I.B.15.d.(i)     Municipal solid waste

                              I.B.15.d.(ii)    Pyrolysis of municipal solid waste.




                                                                                                         26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                              I.B.15.d.(iii)   Biomass pyrolysis or enzymatic biomass.

                              I.B.15.d.(iv)    Wastewater treatment.

             I.B.16. “Recovered methane credit” means a tradable instrument that represents a
                     greenhouse gas emission reduction or greenhouse gas removal enhancement of
                     one metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) that is real, additional,
                     quantifiable, permanent, verifiable, and enforceable. Recovered methane credits
                     do not include emission reductions or removal enhancements required or
                     accounted for by a proposed or final federal, state, or local rule or regulation.

             I.B.17. “Recovered methane protocol” means a documented set of procedures and
                     requirements that quantify ongoing greenhouse gas emission reductions or
                     greenhouse gas removal enhancements achieved by a recovered methane
                     project and that calculate the project baseline.

             I.B.18. “Small gas distribution utility” mean a public utility providing gas service to ninety
                     thousand retail customers or fewer. Small gas distribution utility does not include
                     a municipal gas distribution utility.

      I.C.   Recovered Methane Protocols

             I.C.1.   Recovered methane must be represented by a recovered methane credit
                      generated pursuant to any of the recovered methane protocols in Part C,
                      Sections I.C.2. through I.C.6. in order to count toward greenhouse gas emission
                      reductions or removal enhancements in a clean heat plan for a gas distribution
                      utility, municipal gas distribution utility, or a small gas distribution utility.

             I.C.2.   Biomethane from manure management systems

                      I.C.2.a. The “Compliance Offset Protocol Livestock Projects” adopted by the
                               California Air Resources Board (CARB) on November 14, 2014, shall be
                               used to quantify ongoing greenhouse gas emission reductions or
                               greenhouse gas removal enhancements for biomethane recovered from
                               manure management systems through a recovered methane project
                               eligible under the protocol and to calculate the project baseline.

                      I.C.2.b. Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from vehicle transportation for the
                               delivery of biomethane recovered from a manure management system to
                               a dedicated pipeline, common carrier pipeline, or directly to an end user
                               in Colorado for which the recovered methane was produced shall be
                               accounted for by tracking fuel use attributed to that transportation for
                               both pick-up and delivery of the recovered methane and applying the
                               appropriate emission factor for the fuel type as found in Table MM-1 or
                               Table MM-2 of Subpart MM of 40 CFR, Part 98.

                      I.C.2.c. A manure management system subject to a proposed or final federal,
                               state, or local rule or regulation that applies to the destruction of methane
                               from the manure management system, such as through flaring, is only
                               eligible for recovered methane credits issued by the Division for
                               greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions achieved above and
                               beyond the reductions required by such proposed or final federal, state,
                               or local rule or regulation when using the CARB “Compliance Offset
                               Protocol Livestock Projects”.




                                                                                                         27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.C.3.   Methane derived from municipal solid waste

                      I.C.3.a. Version 2.0 of the “Landfill Gas Destruction and Beneficial Use Projects”
                               methodology (April 2021; Errata & Clarification March 17, 2023), issued
                               by ACR shall be used to quantify ongoing greenhouse gas emission
                               reductions or greenhouse gas removal enhancements for methane
                               derived from a municipal solid waste landfill through a recovered
                               methane project eligible under the methodology or protocol and to
                               calculate the project baseline.

                      I.C.3.b. Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from vehicle transportation for the
                               delivery of methane recovered from a municipal solid waste landfill to a
                               dedicated pipeline, common carrier pipeline, or directly to an end user in
                               Colorado for which the recovered methane was produced shall be
                               accounted for by tracking fuel use attributed to that transportation for
                               both pick-up and delivery of the recovered methane and applying the
                               appropriate emission factor for the fuel type as found in Table MM-1 or
                               Table MM-2 of Subpart MM of 40 CFR, Part 98.

                      I.C.3.c. A municipal solid waste landfill subject to a proposed or final federal,
                               state, or local rule or regulation that applies to the destruction of methane
                               from the landfill, such as through flaring, is only eligible for recovered
                               methane credits issued by the Division for greenhouse gas or methane
                               emission reductions achieved above and beyond the reductions required
                               by such proposed or final federal, state, or local rule or regulation when
                               using the ACR “Landfill Gas Destruction and Beneficial Use Projects”
                               methodology.

             I.C.4.   Methane derived from wastewater treatment

                      I.C.4.a. Version 2.1 of the “Organic Waste Digestion Protocol” (January 16,
                               2014; Errata and Clarifications November 1, 2018) issued by the Climate
                               Action Reserve (CAR) shall be used to quantify ongoing greenhouse gas
                               emission reductions or greenhouse gas removal enhancements for
                               methane derived from wastewater treatment through a recovered
                               methane project eligible under the protocol and to calculate the project
                               baseline. Projects that exclusively accept or rely on livestock manure
                               cannot use the CAR “Organic Waste Digestion Protocol” and must utilize
                               the “Compliance Offset Protocol Livestock Projects” adopted by CARB
                               on November 14, 2014.

                      I.C.4.b. Domestic wastewater treatment plants with anaerobic digesters that will
                               be installed or are in operation may apply for recovered methane credits
                               using the protocol in this Section I.C.4.b.




                                                                                                         28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                          I.C.4.b.(i)       The project baseline for a domestic wastewater
                                   treatment plant (DWWTP) with anaerobic digesters is
                                   established by the process design report (PDR) for the
                                   construction or expansion of the plant that includes the
                                   anaerobic digesters submitted to and approved by the Colorado
                                   Water Quality Control Division (WQCD). If the PDR does not
                                   specify the final use or treatment of the methane from the
                                   anaerobic digesters, the DWWTP must submit documentation
                                   such as air permits, emissions recordkeeping, or facility
                                   schematics (signed by Colorado Professional Engineer), to
                                   establish the baseline. The PDR for the DWWTP and the
                                   approval issued by the WQCD for the design, or other
                                   documentation used to establish the baseline, must be included
                                   in the information provided pursuant to Section I.D.1.c.

                          I.C.4.b.(ii)        If the PDR approved by the WQCD, or the other
                                   supporting documentation identified in Section I.C.4.b.(i),
                                   specifies that methane from the anaerobic digesters will be
                                   routed to a flare for combustion or otherwise captured and
                                   utilized, that will be included in the project baseline and be used
                                   to determine what is additional for recovered methane credit
                                   eligibility.

                          I.C.4.b.(iii)     Where the project baseline includes existing control or
                                   capture and utilization of recovered methane, credits for the
                                   recovered methane will only be issued for emission reductions
                                   resulting from the recovered methane displacing geological gas
                                   for an end use that would otherwise be serviced by a gas
                                   distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, or small gas
                                   distribution utility according to the methodology in Section
                                   I.C.4.b.(iv).

                          I.C.4.b.(iv)     Emission reductions shall be calculated using the
                                   applicable calculation methodology for local distribution
                                   companies (LDCs) described in Subpart NN of 40 CFR Part 98
                                   at Section 98.403(a), and the volume of natural gas supplied in
                                   the calculation will be the volume of recovered methane that has
                                   displaced geological gas.

                          I.C.4.b.(v)       As used in Section I.C.4.b.(iv), the volume of recovered
                                   methane shall be measured at the point of delivery of the
                                   recovered methane to a dedicated pipeline or common carrier
                                   pipeline, at which point the recovered methane is determined to
                                   be replacing geological gas. The measurement location must be
                                   specified in the information provided pursuant to Section I.D.1.a.




                                                                                                        29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                                 I.C.4.b.(vi)      The monitoring and quality assurance and quality control
                                          (QA/QC) requirements in Section 98.404, procedures for
                                          estimating missing data in Section 98.405, data reporting
                                          requirements in Section 98.406(b)(11), and records that must be
                                          retained in Section 98.407 of Subpart NN of 40 CFR Part 98
                                          must be followed as applicable to the calculation methodology in
                                          Section 98.403(a) of Subpart NN that is used and the results of
                                          that calculation. The point of measurement requirements in
                                          Section 98.404 do not have to be followed because the point of
                                          measurement for the recovered methane is specified in Section
                                          I.C.4.b.(v) of this Regulation Number 22, Part C.

                                 I.C.4.b.(vii)    Use of this protocol does not obligate any owner or
                                          operator of a domestic wastewater treatment plant to comply
                                          with Sarbanes Oxley regulations.

                      I.C.4.c. Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from vehicle transportation for the
                               delivery of methane recovered from wastewater treatment or a domestic
                               wastewater treatment plant to a dedicated pipeline, common carrier
                               pipeline, or directly to an end user in Colorado for which the recovered
                               methane was produced shall be accounted for by tracking fuel use
                               attributed to that transportation for both pick-up and delivery of the
                               recovered methane and applying the appropriate emission factor for the
                               fuel type as found in Table MM-1 or Table MM-2 of Subpart MM of 40
                               CFR, Part 98.

                      I.C.4.d. A wastewater treatment facility or operation subject to a proposed or final
                               federal, state, or local rule or regulation that applies to the destruction of
                               methane generated from wastewater treatment, such as through flaring,
                               is only eligible for recovered methane credits issued by the Division for
                               greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions achieved above and
                               beyond the reductions required by such proposed or final federal, state,
                               or local rule or regulation when using the CAR “Organic Waste Digestion
                               Protocol” in Section I.C.4.a. or the domestic wastewater treatment plant
                               protocol in Section I.C.4.b.

             I.C.5.   Coal mine methane

                      I.C.5.a.            Version 1.1 of the “Capturing and Destroying Methane from Coal
                                 and Trona Mines in North America” methodology (August 22: Errata &
                                 Clarification April 28, 2023) issued by ACR shall be used to quantify
                                 ongoing greenhouse gas emission reductions or greenhouse gas
                                 removal enhancements for coal mine methane through a recovered
                                 methane project eligible under the methodology or protocol and to
                                 calculate the project baseline.

                      I.C.5.b.            Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from vehicle transportation
                                 for the delivery of methane recovered from a coal mine to a dedicated
                                 pipeline, common carrier pipeline, or directly to an end user in Colorado
                                 for which the recovered methane was produced shall be accounted for
                                 by tracking fuel use attributed to that transportation for both pick-up and
                                 delivery of the recovered methane and applying the appropriate emission
                                 factor for the fuel type as found in Table MM-1 or Table MM-2 of Subpart
                                 MM of 40 CFR, Part 98.




                                                                                                          30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                      I.C.5.c.            An active or inactive coal mine subject to a proposed or final
                                 federal, state, or local rule or regulation that applies to the destruction of
                                 methane from the coal mine, such as through flaring, is only eligible for
                                 recovered methane credits issued by the Division for greenhouse gas or
                                 methane emission reductions achieved above and beyond the reductions
                                 required by such proposed or final federal, state, or local rule or
                                 regulation when using the ACR “Capturing and Destroying Methane from
                                 Coal and Trona Mines in North America” methodology.

             I.C.6.   Gas system leaks

                      I.C.6.a. Recovered methane credits for gas system leak mitigation may only be
                               issued where direct quantification of the leak occurs. To be eligible for
                               recovered methane credits, leak mitigation projects must:

                                 I.C.6.a.(i)     Occur at a location within the gas distribution system
                                          between the city gate and the customer meter.

                                 I.C.6.a.(ii)      Have leaks quantified following written company
                                          procedures and calculation methods meeting each of the
                                          following requirements.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(A)  The written procedures must specify each
                                                  category or type of equipment (i.e. underground main,
                                                  underground service, meter, flange, etc.) that is part of
                                                  the leak detection and repair project for which recovered
                                                  methane credits will be requested.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(B)   The written procedures must specify how the
                                                  gas flow rate of the leak will be measured or calculated
                                                  for each equipment type or category, including quality
                                                  assurance requirements, estimated uncertainty of
                                                  measurement device(s) used, and data to be collected.
                                                  Examples of measurement techniques include, but are
                                                  not limited to, pipeline pressure and physical
                                                  parameters, flow rate meters, high flow samplers, and
                                                  bag sampling.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)  The written procedures must specify how the
                                                  post-repair verification that gas is no longer leaking at
                                                  the repaired location will be measured or calculated.

                                                  I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(1) Where the equipment or technique used
                                                           for the post-repair inspection is not the same as
                                                           that used for the initial leak rate determination,
                                                           the written procedures must specify the records
                                                           to be collected and provided to the verifying
                                                           entity for certification for the post-repair
                                                           demonstration.




                                                                                                              31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                          5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(2) For leaks that are mitigated by repairing
                                                  existing equipment or components, the
                                                  equipment or technique used to verify the leak
                                                  has been repaired must have a detection
                                                  sensitivity equal to or higher than the equipment
                                                  or technique used for initially measuring the leak
                                                  rate.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(3) For leaks that are mitigated by
                                                  permanently removing the equipment or
                                                  components from the gas distribution system, a
                                                  post-repair leak rate determination is not
                                                  required. Documentation of the permanent
                                                  removal of the equipment or components shall
                                                  be provided to the verifying entity.

                                 I.C.6.a.(ii)(D)  The written procedures must include a
                                          methodology for determining methane concentration of
                                          the leak. Methods for determining methane
                                          concentration include, but are not limited to, system gas
                                          chromatographs, bag sampling and lab analysis,
                                          portable gas chromatographs, and combustible gas
                                          instruments (CGI) that are capable of determining
                                          concentrations of methane either in ppm or percent gas
                                          measurements.

                                 I.C.6.a.(ii)(E)  The written procedures must specify the survey
                                          frequency for each category or type of equipment.
                                          Survey frequencies may include one-time studies to find
                                          large emission sources, annual, or shorter frequencies.

                                 I.C.6.a.(ii)(F)  The written procedures must use the following
                                          time durations to calculate the methane leakage
                                          mitigated from the project.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(F)(1) For one-time studies, the time duration
                                                  shall be six months from the date and hour that
                                                  the leak was verified to be repaired.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(F)(2) For surveys conducted annually or less
                                                  frequently, the time duration shall be six months.

                                         I.C.6.a.(ii)(F)(3) For survey frequencies shorter than
                                                  annual, the time duration shall be one-half the
                                                  time interval between surveys, not to exceed six
                                                  months.

                                 I.C.6.a.(ii)(G) The baseline for the leak repair project is
                                          determined by multiplying the gas flow rate of the leak,
                                          methane concentration, and time duration allowed by
                                          Section I.C.6.a.(ii)(F), and converting to carbon dioxide
                                          equivalent emissions. The amount of recovered methane
                                          eligible for recovered methane credit from the project is
                                          equal to the baseline.




                                                                                                  32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                              I.C.6.a.(iii)     Each applicant must submit its written procedures to the
                                       Division for approval. The Division will review the written
                                       procedures and notify the applicant of any deficiencies. If notified
                                       of deficiencies, the applicant may submit revised written
                                       procedures for final approval. The applicant must receive
                                       Division approval in writing before any recovered methane
                                       credits can be generated under this Section I.C.6.

                              I.C.6.a.(iv)      Quantification of emissions following the written
                                       procedures specified in Part C, Section I.C.6.a.(ii) shall be
                                       verified by an accredited body or organization as specified in
                                       Part C, Section I.C.7.a.

                      I.C.6.b. Gas system leaks subject to a proposed or final federal, state, or local
                               rule or regulation that requires the detection and repair of the leaks are
                               not eligible for recovered methane credits.

             I.C.7.   Entity accreditation for verifying greenhouse gas reductions or removal
                      enhancements from recovered methane projects

                      I.C.7.a. All greenhouse gas emission reductions or greenhouse gas removal
                               enhancements demonstrated through the use of an approved recovered
                               methane protocol under this Part C, Section I.C. to an applicable
                               recovered methane project, except projects for biomethane from manure
                               management systems, must be verified by a body or organization that is
                               accredited to conduct verification for the specific project type under the
                               Accreditation Program for Greenhouse Gas Validation/Verification
                               Bodies (GHGVVB) of the ANSI National Accreditation Board (ANAB),
                               part of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), and in
                               accordance with the most current version(s) of International Organization
                               for Standardization (ISO) 14065 required by ANAB for accreditation and
                               to conduct verification.

                      I.C.7.b. Greenhouse gas emission reductions or greenhouse gas removal
                               enhancements from recovered methane projects for biomethane from
                               manure management systems must be verified by a CARB-accredited
                               offset verification body that is accredited to conduct verification for
                               livestock projects.

      I.D.   Recovered Methane Crediting and Tracking System

             I.D.1.   An entity seeking issuance of credits to it in the Division’s recovered methane
                      crediting and tracking system must submit the following information to the
                      Division no more than twelve months from the date methane was recovered from
                      a project in order for that methane to be eligible for credits:

                      I.D.1.a. The name and a detailed description of the recovered methane project;
                               the start date and, if applicable, end date of the project; the date(s)
                               methane was recovered from the project for which credit issuance is
                               being sought, and; the amount of recovered methane in standard cubic
                               feet for which credit issuance is being sought.




                                                                                                            33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                           I.D.1.a.(i)       If a detailed description of the project has been provided
                                    to the Division in a prior application for credits from the project
                                    and there has been no change in how the project operates, then
                                    the description of the project may be excluded from subsequent
                                    application(s) for credits from the project.

                   I.D.1.b. The credit generation date of any credits being transferred from an
                            outside carbon offset registry under Sections I.D.3., I.D.4. or I.D.5. as
                            applicable, to the Division’s recovered methane crediting and tracking
                            system.

                   I.D.1.c. Proof that the applicable approved recovered methane protocol under
                            Part C, Section I.C. has been used to establish the credits being sought
                            from the recovered methane project. This must include all data and
                            information specified in the protocol that is used for the quantification of
                            emissions and monitoring requirements as it relates to the credits being
                            sought.

                   I.D.1.d. Proof that the recovered methane project is located in Colorado, which
                            must include:

                           I.D.1.d.(i)       Physical street address of the project including the city
                                    and zip code. If the project does not have a physical street
                                    address, then the project must provide the latitude and longitude
                                    representing the geographic centroid or center point of facility
                                    operations in decimal degree format. This must be provided in a
                                    comma-delimited “latitude, longitude” coordinate pair reported in
                                    decimal degrees to at least four digits to the right of the decimal
                                    point; and

                           I.D.1.d.(ii)      The AIRS ID associated with the project or facility where
                                    the project is located if an AIRS ID has been assigned to the
                                    project or facility by the Division.

                   I.D.1.e. Proof that the recovered methane derived from the project for which
                            credit issuance is being sought has been delivered to or within Colorado
                            through a dedicated pipeline or through a common carrier pipeline that
                            physically flows within Colorado or toward an end user in Colorado for
                            which the recovered methane was produced.

                           I.D.1.e.(i)        If the recovered methane is delivered from a project
                                    directly to an end user, then the name and address of the end
                                    user must be provided along with proof that the recovered
                                    methane replaced geological gas otherwise supplied to that end
                                    user by a gas distribution, small gas distribution, or municipal
                                    gas distribution utility.

                           I.D.1.e.(ii)     If vehicle transportation was used for the delivery of
                                    recovered methane from a project to a dedicated pipeline,
                                    common carrier pipeline, or directly to an end user, then the
                                    greenhouse gas emissions attributed to that transportation as
                                    calculated per Sections I.C.2.b., I.C.3.b., I.C.4.c. or 1.C.5.b., and
                                    the underlying data used in the calculation, must also be
                                    provided.




                                                                                                        34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                      I.D.1.f. Proof that a body or organization that is accredited pursuant to Part C,
                               Section I.C.7, was used to verify ongoing greenhouse gas emission
                               reductions or greenhouse gas removal enhancements for recovered
                               methane derived from a recovered methane project, including the results
                               of that verification from the entity or organization accredited pursuant to
                               Part C, Section I.C.7.

                      I.D.1.g. Proof that the requirements of Part C, Sections I.D.3., I.D.4. or I.D.5.
                               have been met if applicable to the recovered methane project. If Section
                               I.D.5. is applicable to a manure management system project, then
                               notification of the offset registry the project is registered in and the date it
                               was registered must also be provided. If Section I.D.5. is not applicable
                               to a manure management system project, then notification of that must
                               be provided.

                      I.D.1.h. Certification that the greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions or
                               removal enhancements for which credit issuance is being sought are not
                               required or accounted for by any proposed or final federal, state, or local
                               rule or regulation outside of this Part C or a clean heat plan, including to
                               meet any regulatory greenhouse gas offset or cap and trade
                               requirements.

                              I.D.1.h.(i)       If any proposed or final federal, state, or local rule or
                                       regulation for greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions
                                       or removal enhancements applies to a source of recovered
                                       methane, each rule or regulation shall be identified, along with
                                       the specific requirements of the rule or regulation concerning the
                                       greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions or removal
                                       enhancements.

                      I.D.1.i. Certification that the greenhouse gas or methane emission reductions or
                               removal enhancements for which credit issuance is being sought will not
                               also be used to meet any voluntary greenhouse gas reduction or offset
                               requirements outside of this Part C or a clean heat plan.

             I.D.2.   The Division’s recovered methane crediting and tracking system will:

                      I.D.2.a. Limit participation to recovered methane project developers and gas
                               distribution, small gas distribution, or municipal gas distribution utilities,
                               and require such entities to register and apply for a user account in the
                               system with the following requirements.

                              I.D.2.a.(i)      Only one account will be allowed per entity registered in
                                       the crediting and tracking system.

                              I.D.2.a.(ii)      An entity must provide such information as the Division
                                       deems necessary in connection with the user account
                                       application, including but not limited to the information identified
                                       in Air Quality Control Commission Regulation Number 27, Part
                                       D, Sections II.C.1. through II.C.7.




                                                                                                                35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


                           I.D.2.a.(iii)     One primary account representative must be designated,
                                    and up to four alternate account representatives may be
                                    designated, under the entity’s user account. All account
                                    representatives will be considered authorized representatives of
                                    the entity registered in the crediting and tracking system.

                           I.D.2.a.(iv)      An authorized representative shall represent, and by his
                                    or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally
                                    bind the entity in all matters relating to the crediting and tracking
                                    system. Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by
                                    any authorized representative of an entity registered in the
                                    crediting and tracking system shall be deemed to be a
                                    representation, action, inaction, or submission by the entity.

                   I.D.2.b. Allow for the trading of recovered methane credits among entities
                            registered in the crediting and tracking system.

                   I.D.2.c. Allow for each recovered methane credit in the crediting and tracking
                            system to be active or available for twelve months from the credit
                            generation date.

                           I.D.2.c.(i)        Credits in the Division’s crediting and tracking system
                                     will expire after twelve months from the credit generation date
                                     unless retired.

                           I.D.2.c.(ii)      Credits first generated in a carbon offset registry as
                                    specified in Sections I.D.3., I.D.4., and I.D.5. become ineligible
                                    for transfer to the Division’s crediting and tracking system after
                                    twelve months from the credit generation date.

                           I.D.2.c.(iii)   All expired or retired credits in the crediting and tracking
                                    system may no longer be sold or traded.

                           I.D.2.c.(iv)       All expired or retired credits in the account of a gas
                                     distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or municipal gas
                                     distribution utility in the crediting and tracking system may be
                                     applied toward that utility’s approved clean heat plan within the
                                     limits that apply to the use of recovered methane in the plan.

                   I.D.2.d. Allow for each recovered methane credit generated in the crediting and
                            tracking system to be uniquely identifiable and trackable within the
                            system.

                   I.D.2.e. Allow all transactions in the crediting and tracking system to be auditable
                            and traceable by the Division.

                   I.D.2.f. Allow data to be reported from the crediting and tracking system and be
                            made publicly available by the Division. This data will include whether
                            the credit was generated from a project located in a Disproportionately
                            Impacted Community, as defined in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S.

                   I.D.2.g. Allow the Division to purge unused accounts from the crediting and
                            tracking system after eighteen months of inactivity and written notice to
                            the account representative(s) if no objection is provided by an account
                            representative in response to the notification.




                                                                                                          36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


             I.D.3.   Recovered methane projects for municipal solid waste and coal mine methane
                      and their associated greenhouse gas reduction or removal credits must initially
                      be registered with ACR by the project developer or operator.

                      I.D.3.a. Any greenhouse gas reduction or removal credits from the project that
                               are to be used for purposes of recovered methane under this Part C
                               must be canceled or retired from ACR for transfer to and use in the
                               Division’s recovered methane crediting and tracking system.

                      I.D.3.b. Confirmation from ACR of credit cancellation in the ACR must be
                               provided to the Division in order for the credit to be made available in the
                               Division’s recovered methane crediting and tracking system. The
                               canceled ACR credit must be associated with the applicable recovered
                               methane project for municipal solid waste or coal mine methane.

             I.D.4.   Recovered methane projects for wastewater treatment subject to Section I.C.4.a.
                      and their associated greenhouse gas reduction or removal credits must initially
                      be registered in the Climate Action Reserve’s (CAR) Reserve Offset Program by
                      the project developer or operator.

                      I.D.4.a. Any greenhouse gas reduction or removal credits from the project that
                               are to be used for purposes of recovered methane under this Part C
                               must be canceled or retired from the CAR Reserve Offset Program for
                               transfer to and use in the Division’s recovered methane crediting and
                               tracking system.

                      I.D.4.b. Confirmation from CAR of credit cancellation in the CAR Reserve Offset
                               Program must be provided to the Division in order for the credit to be
                               made available in the Division’s recovered methane crediting and
                               tracking system. The canceled CAR Reserve Offset Program credit must
                               be associated with the recovered methane project for wastewater
                               treatment.

             I.D.5.   If a recovered methane project for biomethane from a manure management
                      system is registered by the project developer or operator in a CARB-approved
                      offset project registry, which includes ACR, CAR, and Verra, then any
                      greenhouse gas reduction or removal credits from the project that are to be used
                      for purposes of recovered methane under this Part C must be canceled or retired
                      from the applicable CARB-approved offset project registry for transfer to and use
                      in the Division’s recovered methane crediting and tracking system.

                      I.D.5.a. Confirmation from the applicable CARB-approved offset project registry
                               of credit cancellation in the registry must be provided to the Division in
                               order for the credit to be made available in the Division’s recovered
                               methane crediting and tracking system. The canceled offset registry
                               credit must be associated with the recovered methane project for
                               biomethane from a manure management system.

      I.E.   Recordkeeping

             I.E.1.   Records of all information required under Section I.D.1. must be maintained by
                      the entity submitting the information for five (5) years from the date of
                      submission, and be provided to the Division upon request.




                                                                                                         37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission



PART D          General Provisions

I.      Severability

If any section, clause, phrase, or standard contained in these regulations is for any reason held to be
inoperative, unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity of the remaining portions thereof will not be
affected and the Commission declares that it severally passed and adopted these provisions separately
and apart.

PART E          Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.      Adopted: May 22, 2020

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(“Commission”) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted House Bill 2019-1261
(concerning the reduction of greenhouse gas pollution) (HB 19-1261) amending the legislative declaration
in §25-7-102 of the Act, and Senate Bill 2019-096 (concerning the collection of greenhouse gas
emissions data) (SB 19-096) creating §25-7-140 of the Act. HB 19-1261 and SB 19-096 both define
greenhouse gas pollution (GHG) as including carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O),
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride
(NF3). In HB 19-1261, now codified in part at §§25-7-102(2) and -105(1)(e), C.R.S., the General
Assembly declared that “climate change adversely affects Colorado’s economy, air quality and public
health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life[,]” acknowledged that “Colorado is already
experiencing harmful climate impacts[,]” and that “many of these impacts disproportionately affect” certain
disadvantaged communities. § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S.

Consequently, the General Assembly updated Colorado’s statewide greenhouse gas pollution (GHG)
reduction goals requiring the Commission to implement regulations to achieve a 26% reduction of
statewide GHG by 2025; 50% reduction by 2030; and 90% reduction by 2050 as compared to 2005
levels. § 25-7-102(2) (g), C.R.S. To accomplish these important goals the legislature also passed SB 19-
096, now codified as §25-7-140, C.R.S., directing the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) to
undertake two phases of rulemaking aimed first at requiring GHG emitters to monitor and report GHG
emissions, § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., and second to implement measures allowing the state to cost-
effectively meet its GHG reduction goals. § 25-7-140(2)(a)(III), C.R.S. With respect to GHG reporting and
the statewide inventory, §25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., requires the Commission to adopt rules by June 1,
2020, “requiring greenhouse gas-emitting entities to monitor and publicly report their emissions as the
Commission deems appropriate to support Colorado’s [GHG] inventory efforts and to facilitate
implementation of rules that will timely achieve Colorado’s greenhouse gas emission reduction goals.”
Further, §25-7-140(2)(a), C.R.S., requires the Commission to consider what information is already being
reported for Colorado under the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) current federal
GHG reporting rule, otherwise known as the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule codified in Title
40 CFR Part 98 (Part 98), and tailor new reporting requirements to fill any gaps in data as determined to
be appropriate to allow for a comprehensive and robust state GHG inventory.




                                                                                                              38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


§ 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., also requires these rules to “include requirements for providers of retail or
wholesale electric service in the state of Colorado to track and report emissions from all generation
sources within the state and elsewhere that electricity consumption by their customers in this state
causes to be emitted.” § 25-7-105, C.R.S, setting forth the duties of the Commission, also directs
development of rules for evaluating how public utilities are meeting obligations under Clean Energy Plans
with the Public Utility Commission through considerations of facility ownership and purchased power. §
25-7-1051(e)(VIII)(E), C.R.S.

§§ 25-7-105(1)(e) and 140(2)(a)(III), C.R.S., further requires the Commission to implement GHG
reduction strategies to achieve the reduction goals set forth in §25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. HFCs are highly
potent GHGs generally used in aerosols, refrigeration and air conditioning, and foam blowing. Phasing
out HFCs from most manufacturing processes and end-uses is adopted as a strategy towards
accomplishing the mandated GHG reductions.

Regulation Number 22, Parts A and B, Section I. are intended to satisfy the requirements set forth by the
General Assembly in §25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., with respect to statewide GHG reporting and an initial
GHG reduction strategy towards addressing statewide reductions required by §25-7-140(2)(a)(III), C.R.S.,
and § 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., by implementing the phase-out of HFCs in manufacturing and end-use
products in Colorado.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, specifically §25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are
necessary for the proper implementation and administration of the Act.

§ 25-7-102(2), C.R.S., declares that “climate change adversely affects Colorado’s economy, air quality
and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life” that reducing GHG is necessary “to
limit the increase in the global average temperature” and that “reducing [GHG], Colorado will also reduce
other harmful air pollutants, which will, in turn, improve public health, reduce health care costs, improve
air quality, and help sustain the environment[.]” Further, §25-7-102(2), C.R.S., declares that reducing
GHG will result in economic benefits to Colorado by creating new markets, spurring innovation, and
driving investment in low-carbon technologies thus positioning Colorado’s “economy, technology centers,
financial institutions, and businesses to benefit from national and international efforts to reduce [GHG.]” §
25-7-102(2)(f), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and promulgating such a combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry
out that program. §25-7-106(6), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to require owners and
operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report emission data and other information as
the Commission may require.

§ 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., specifically directs the Commission to, by June 1, 2020, “adopt rules requiring
[GHG]-emitting entities to monitor and publicly report their emissions as the commission deems
appropriate to support Colorado's greenhouse gas emission inventory efforts and to facilitate
implementation of rules that will timely achieve Colorado's greenhouse gas emission reduction goals. The
commission shall consider what information is already being publicly reported by the federal
environmental protection agency and tailor new reporting requirements to fill any gaps in data, as it
determines is appropriate, to allow for maintaining and updating state inventories that are sufficiently
comprehensive and robust. The rules must include requirements for providers of retail or wholesale
electric service in the state of Colorado to track and report emissions from all generation sources within
the state and elsewhere that electricity consumption by their customers in this state causes to be emitted.
The commission may require emitting entities to report the amount of emissions of each of the seven
individual components of greenhouse gases as well as the carbon dioxide equivalent of those emissions.”




                                                                                                           39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


§ 25-7-140(2)(a)(III), C.R.S., requires the Commission to implement measures to cost-effectively allow the
state to meet its GHG emission reduction goals, which includes reduction of HFCs as potent GHGs. §25-
7-105(e), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and regulations to
achieve statewide GHG emission reduction goals, including emission reduction strategies that have been
deployed by another jurisdiction to reduce multi-sector GHG emissions. § 25-7-109(2), C.R.S., authorizes
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations to reduce emissions of various pollutants, including
chemical substances such as HFCs.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting Regulation Number 22, and
includes the technological and scientific rationale for the adoption of Regulation Number 22:

Part A: Greenhouse Gas Reporting

Part A has been developed to allow the reporters and the Division to leverage existing EPA reporting
tools that are currently used by the majority of sources covered by this regulation, as well as for
consistency with other U.S. Climate Alliance states that have implemented GHG reporting regulations.
The Division intends to develop a mechanism to receive XML files that are exported from EPA’s electronic
GHG reporting tool, known as e-GGRT. The EPA tool can be used by entities with emissions below the
federal reporting thresholds to compile, summarize, and export GHG emissions data in the XML file. The
information contained in the XML files will then be uploaded into a database for use in future inventories
and planning activities. Use of existing EPA reporting tools will allow for the GHG data reporting program
in Colorado to begin as expeditiously as possible and minimize the burden on the regulated sources.

Additionally, consistency with EPA and other state data collection programs will be necessary if Colorado
joins a regional program at some point in the future and will allow for a smooth transition if additional
federal legislation or regulation is adopted for GHGs. To ensure consistency and allow for comparison
with other states, GHG data reporting by the affected sources under Part A, will be performed using the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 4th Assessment Report, 100-year time horizon GWP
values. Part A covers the collection of the GHG data pursuant to §25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., and does not
address how that data will be used in the Colorado GHG Inventory or other planning activities. Because
the data will be collected for each individual GHG pollutant, the Division will be capable of converting and
comparing reported data to CO2e using other IPCC Assessment Reports’ GWP values and/or time
horizons.

In the statewide GHG inventory, the Division will publish data by the mass and GWP value of each GHG
pollutant pursuant to the IPCC’s 4th and 5th Assessment Reports as well as, at the direction of the
Commission, future IPSS Assessment Reports. The use of the 100-year time frame IPCC 4th
Assessment report in these regulations is not intended to convey that those values should be used for
planning purposes or are otherwise more appropriate than more recent analysis.

Consistent with the Federal Mandatory Reporting Rule (Part 98), emissions of each GHG constituent, as
required and defined in §25-7-140, C.R.S., will be reported in metric tons of CO2e. Where existing
emissions reporting under Colorado regulations is used to meet the obligations of this regulation,
emissions will be reported by the source in the unit of measure required by the referenced regulation. In
addition, each GHG constituent will be reported individually, enabling the Division to convert reported
data using more updated GWP values and/or time horizons, as appropriate, for developing the Colorado
GHG inventory or other planning activities. The Division will convert the emissions to metric tons for use
in the GHG inventory or other planning activities. While Part A utilizes the reporting tools and protocols of
Part 98, the Division is requiring reporting from certain source categories in Colorado regardless of the
related federal reporting threshold in order to obtain a more complete and granular data set to inform the
inventory and planning processes.




                                                                                                           40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


More detailed data will also inform local governments as they pursue their own climate change goals.
Source categories required to report all GHG emissions, regardless of reporting thresholds under Part 98,
include all electricity generation and distribution (whether subject to PUC jurisdiction under § 40-1-103,
C.R.S., or not), local distribution companies, industrial waste landfills, active underground coal mines, and
industrial wastewater facilities.

GHG emissions reporting for oil and natural gas operations and equipment at or upstream of a natural
gas processing plant and natural gas transmission and storage covered under Section III.C. will be
gathered in accordance with Commission Regulation Number 7. These reporting requirements and
protocols fill gaps in the federal reporting requirements by expanding the facilities required to report as
well as the data reported under Regulation Number 7, Part D, Sections IV. and V. As such, the
Commission recognizes that information reported under Regulation Number 7 may differ from that
reported under Part 98 as the inventory required under Regulation Number 7 is more comprehensive,
detailed and takes into account information relevant to Colorado operators.

Under Part A, suppliers engaged in activities covered by Subparts LL, MM, NN, OO, PP, and QQ of Part
98 are required to report GHGs based upon the quantity that would be associated with combustion or use
of the products supplied. This differs from other reporting under Part 98 since the reported data does not
always reflect a direct emission. Suppliers covered by Subparts LL (coal-to-liquid suppliers), MM
(petroleum product suppliers), and NN (natural gas and natural gas liquids) report the GHGs that would
result from total combustion or release of the product being supplied. The information obtained through
these reports is important to developing a comprehensive statewide GHG inventory, however the nature
of the data requires special attention to account for the type of supply and locus of GHG emissions, if any.
For instance, under Subpart PP, carbon dioxide suppliers report carbon dioxide that is produced by mass,
and not as emissions. The Commission acknowledges that carbon dioxide supply may not always equate
directly to GHG emissions because it is not combusted by an end user and may not be released into the
atmosphere depending on its end use. Likewise, Subpart NN suppliers are required to assume that all
fractionated products are combusted as fuel despite the fact that a substantial quantity of those products
are not combusted but used as chemical feedstocks. In fact, EPA’s technical support document for
Subpart NN indicates that fuel uses make up just under 30% of total natural gas liquids (NGL) product
sales. As a result, the reporting under Subpart NN does not necessarily equate entirely to GHG emissions
as provided in a Part 98 report. Thus, the Division will be required to analyze if and how GHGs reported
from these source categories are properly included in the statewide GHG inventory and reduction efforts.

EPA made advance determinations that certain elements of Part 98 reports are subject to federal
Confidential Business Information (CBI) protections and has published those determinations at
https://www.epa.gov/ghgreporting/confidential-business-information-ghg-reporting (updated April 8,
2020). As part of submissions pursuant to Part A, Section IV.B., a statement that the entity is following
EPA’s guidelines for Part 98 with respect to designation of information as CBI in the certification
statement under Section IV.B.6. shall satisfy the company’s obligation to identify information in the report
as CBI. The Commission does not, however, intend that such statements be determinative of whether the
information is CBI under Colorado law, but expects that information will be made available as required
and permitted by the Colorado Open Records Act.

A significant gap in GHG reporting that is imperfectly captured by Part 98 relates to fuel supplied,
consumed, and combusted in the state. While reporting from local distribution companies and suppliers
required to report under Part A provide important pieces of the fuel supply chain, end-uses including
where the fuel is actually combusted, such as in-state or out-of-state, are more difficult to accurately
account for. Thus, the Division will utilize other sources of information to fill gaps necessary to fully inform
the statewide GHG inventory related to the end use and combustion location of fuels.




                                                                                                              41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


To accomplish this, the Division may use sources including, but not limited to, the Energy Information
Administration’s “prime supplier” reporting through its EIA-782C form and information obtained from the
Colorado Department of Revenue regarding fuel distributors. Having considered all relevant factors,
including but not limited to, current federal GHG reporting under Part 98, statutory requirements under
§§24-4-103(2.7) and 29-1-304.5, C.R.S., and feedback from stakeholders, the Commission has decided
to provide for optional GHG reporting from domestic wastewater plants and active municipal solid waste
landfills not otherwise required to report under Part 98.

Any facilities or operations for which GHG reporting is optional should report in accordance with the
protocols and deadlines set forth in Part A, Sections III and IV. In doing so, these facilities and operations
will enable the Commission to establish a more robust statewide GHG inventory and better inform future
reduction strategies. The Commission recognizes the lack of universally accepted GHG calculation or
reporting protocols for some voluntary reporting source categories, such as domestic wastewater
treatment plants and agricultural operations. The Division will continue to consult with potential voluntary
reporters in these categories to reach consensus on appropriate and acceptable protocols for reporting
purposes. For domestic wastewater treatment plants at Part A, Section III.B.8., examples of such
protocols may include the “U.S. Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas
Emissions” (Version 1.2, July 2019), at Appendix F: Wastewater and Water Emission Activities and
Sources, published by ICLEI: Local Governments for Sustainability, and protocols developed by the IPCC
or based on IPCC protocols. The Division expects that all direct GHG emissions from a domestic
wastewater treatments plant will be calculated and reported by a voluntary reporter. For an agricultural
operation identified in Part A, Section III.A.9., examples of such protocols may include those specified in
Subpart JJ of 40 CFR, Part 98 and developed by the IPCC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture
(USDA) for the sector.

Part A will also quantify the GHG emissions associated with electricity imported and consumed in
Colorado, as required by §25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., and which is not covered by the federal mandatory
reporting under Part 98 data submissions. Attribution of GHG emissions to statewide electricity
consumption will be accomplished by requiring subject entities to submit supplemental data including
generation, wholesale and retail sales, and emissions information to the Division, as appropriate for the
business activities conducted in Colorado by the entity. The supplemental data form will be developed
through a stakeholder process led by the Division. The supplemental data form is intended to report
annual consolidated data from detailed sources already collected by or available to the entities for
business or other regulatory purposes (i.e. contracts, internal tracking systems for energy transactions
with counterparties or through organized markets, Energy Information Administration reporting, Public
Utility Commission reporting, US EPA, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, etc.) into a single
process and standard report format so that the Division can document emissions associated with total
electricity consumption in Colorado.

The reporting form will include calculation methodologies and data sources, prioritizing more specific
sources over less specific sources for determining GHG emissions from imported electricity when the
generation source of the energy is unknown, which can occur through various market transaction
mechanisms. Quantification of GHG emissions associated with electricity exported from Colorado will also
be accomplished through the use of the supplemental data form because understanding the complete
energy flow through the transmission and distribution systems is necessary to determine energy
consumed in Colorado. Direct reporting of this annual summary information using a consistent form,
rather than relying on summaries provided through the Department of Energy or other sources, will
provide necessary completeness and granularity of the data for state and local GHG strategy
development. Additionally, direct reporting to the Division will also allow for more timely incorporation into
the Colorado GHG Inventory process and more detailed analysis and trending to assess the progress
toward achieving the statewide GHG reduction goals.




                                                                                                            42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


In adopting the reporting requirements of this Regulation No. 22, Part A, IV.C.2 the Commission does not
take a position on what information should be utilized to determine GHG emission reductions as part of a
Clean Energy Plan. The requirements for submitting data associated with Clean Energy Plans, and the
process by which the Division will evaluate the emissions reduction projections and provide
recommendations to the Public Utilities Commission, will be developed and published through a separate
process from this Regulation Number 22 rulemaking. Subpart A will also establish ongoing reporting for
utilities that have received approval of a Clean Energy Plan by the Public Utilities Commission. Tracking
of GHG reduction progress achieved by these plans will inform development, assessment, and
refinement of strategies to achieve the statewide GHG targets.

Sources of Sulfur Hexafluoride (SF6) owning or operating electrical transmission and distribution
equipment facilities located in more than one state that calculate SF6 emissions on a system-wide basis
for recordkeeping and reporting under EPA’s Part 98 may determine its Colorado SF6 emissions by
estimating the Colorado portion of its system-wide emissions based on the percentage of its total
transmission line miles that exist in Colorado.

Given recent and ongoing deregulation efforts by the federal government, and especially those focused
on air quality and climate change, the Commission finds it necessary to protect Colorado’s regulatory
regime in these areas from potential federal deregulation or rollbacks. This must be balanced with the
legislative directive in § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., to “consider what information is already being publicly
reported by the [EPA,]” which the Commission is doing by leveraging Part 98 reporting and tools available
thereunder, including e-GGRT. In doing so, the Commission is cognizant that these programs and tools
are subject to change in ways that may either improve or diminish their utility for Colorado’s GHG
emission reporting and inventory efforts.

By incorporating by reference Part 98 and its related subparts as they are effective July 1, 2019, and by
referencing applicable provisions of Part 98 in Part A, Sections III.A. and B of this Regulation Number 22,
the Commission intends to protect against potential federal rollbacks by specifying those currently subject
to federal GHG reporting will continue to report under the federal requirements as they currently stand in
the event the federal GHG reporting rules are revised or rescinded. Should the EPA indicate, through
public notice or otherwise, an intent in any way diminish or rollback the requirements of Part 98, its
related subparts, or associated tools, including but not limited to e-GGRT, the Commission and Division
will endeavor to promptly establish reporting requirements and tools necessary to maintain the GHG
reporting and inventory regime adopted in this Regulation Number 22, Part A. However, the Commission
also recognizes that some future changes might enhance GHG reporting, so the Commission may also
choose to update the incorporation date if those future revisions align with and advance Colorado’s goals

Part B, Section I.: Prohibitions on Use of Certain Hydrofluorocarbons in Aerosol Propellants, Chillers,
Foam, and Stationary Refrigeration End-Uses

The federal EPA adopted two rules under its Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP), Rule 20 in July
2015, and Rule 21 in December 2016, which require phasing out the use of high-GWP HFCs in retail and
residential refrigeration and air conditioning (AC), aerosol products, and rigid and spray foam end-uses.
Under SNAP Rule 20, the compliance dates for eliminating unacceptable HFCs ranged from July 2016 to
January 2022, depending on the application. The compliance dates under SNAP Rule 21 ranged from
January 2017 to January 2025. In August 2017, the D.C. Circuit of the United States Court of Appeals
vacated SNAP Rule 20 to the extent it requires manufacturers to replace HFCs with a substitute
substance finding the EPA had exceeded its authority under Section 612 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §
7671k). However, the D.C. Circuit found that EPA’s removal of HFCs from the list of safe substitutes
under SNAP was lawful thus enabling the EPA to prohibit or limit prospective use of HFCs in
manufacturing and end uses. Yet, in 2018, EPA guidance advised that it would not be enforcing SNAP
Rule 20 until it developed new rules based on the D.C. Circuit’s ruling, which has not occurred. In April
2019, the D.C Circuit vacated SNAP Rule 21 to the same extent and on the same grounds as SNAP 20.




                                                                                                          43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Absent federal enforcement regulating use of these highly potent GHGs, individual states have adopted,
or are in the process of adopting, statutes and regulations phasing out the use of HFCs in manufacturing
and end-use products. The U.S. Climate Alliance has drafted a model framework to promote uniformity of
HFC regulation across member states. Part B., Section I. is based upon the U.S. Climate Alliance’s model
framework as are proposed HFC rules under consideration in other states. Based on stakeholder
feedback and significant economic impacts, the Commission adopted an alternative requirement for
positive displacement chillers that differs from the U.S. Climate Alliance’s model framework. The purpose
of this provision is to address GHG emissions associated with use of prohibited high-GWP HFCs in the
manufacture of positive displacement chillers in lieu of phasing out the use of these HFCs in chillers
destined for sale or installation outside of Colorado or other states with similar HFC prohibitions.

This alternative approach requires GHGs associated with the use of prohibited high-GWP HFCs in this
specific manufacturing process to be mitigated through best management practices at the manufacturing
facility and any remaining emissions to be addressed through GHG reduction projects completed in the
State of Colorado. Positive displacement chillers manufactured for sale or installation in Colorado after
the January 1, 2024 prohibition date will still be restricted from using prohibited HFCs.

The Division, in considering emission reduction projects under Section I.C.3.a.(v), will give preference to
projects that have environmental co-benefits or benefits to the local community. While projects can
include those developed or owned by the manufacturer, such projects must be additional to any efforts
planned or undertaken as part of an overall GHG emissions reduction program the manufacturer may
have and must not be projects or activities that would be carried out in the ordinary course of business.
Additionally, based on public comment and stakeholder feedback, Part B., Section I. differs from the U.S.
Climate Alliance’s model framework in the treatment of bear spray and law enforcement pepper spray.
These two products in the aerosol-propellant category have been exempted in Part B., Section I.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I) Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
requirements;

Part A: In order to improve the nationwide inventory of GHG emissions, Part 98 sets forth the federal
GHG reporting requirements for qualifying source categories in accordance with the Federal Clean Air
Act. The Subparts to Part 98 establish the reporting protocols and methodologies for each source
category. Part 98 effectively establishes three groups of source categories required to report annual GHG
emissions: sources required to report regardless of emission volumes; sources only required to report if
emissions meet or exceed specified thresholds (generally 25,000 metric tons of CO2e in combined
emissions from stationary sources); and fuel suppliers that import or export product equivalent to 25,000
metric tons of CO2e or more. Through Part A the Commission builds upon established federal reporting
requirements and closes reporting gaps by eliminating reporting thresholds for certain sources and
expanding certain other source categories to report GHG emissions in order to establish a more robust
and accurate GHG inventory for Colorado.

Part B., Section I.: To the extent Part B., Section I. requires manufacturers to replace HFCs, there are no
applicable federal requirements as a result of the D.C. Circuit Court’s vacature of SNAP Rules 20 and 21
and EPA’s lack of progress in further regulating HFCs. To the extent that Part B., Section I. prohibits or
restricts prospective uses of prohibited HFCs (phases out), it does not conflict with any applicable current
federal regulations.




                                                                                                          44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


(II) Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

Part A: There are no control requirements associated with the Part A GHG reporting rule.

Part B., Section I.: To the extent SNAP Rules 20 and 21 remain in effect and are enforceable, the federal
HFC rules are primarily technology-based in that the rules largely proscribe or severely limit the use of
HFCs in certain manufacturing processes and end-uses thus requiring substitution or replacement with
lower GWP substances.

(III) Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation
was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;

Part A: Colorado’s General Assembly has determined that climate change adversely affects Colorado's
economy, air quality and public health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life and that
reducing statewide GHG emissions can mitigate these impacts. § 25-7-102, C.R.S. While the EPA also
indicated that its “mandatory GHG reporting program [set forth in Part 98] will provide EPA, other
government agencies, and outside stakeholders with economy-wide data on facility-level (and in some
cases corporate-level) GHG emissions,” § 25-7-140, C.R.S. explicitly requires the Commission to adopt
GHG reporting requirements to fill any gaps in the federal reporting requirements.

To the extent that reporting under 40 CFR Part 98 establishes adequate GHG reporting to satisfy this
legislative directive, those requirements and reporting protocols have been adopted. To the extent that
the Commission has determined certain source categories may be underreporting due to reporting
thresholds or exemptions of certain source categories, those thresholds or exemptions have been
eliminated. Additionally, Part A establishes new reporting requirements for certain source categories for
which there are no federal reporting requirements.

Part B., Section I.: To the extent Part B., Section I. requires manufacturers to replace HFCs, there are no
current applicable federal requirements as contemplated in this regulation. As a result of the D.C. Circuit
Court’s vacature of SNAP Rules 20 and 21 and EPA’s lack of progress in further regulating HFCs, there
are no current applicable federal requirements relating to the phase-out of HFCs as contemplated in this
regulation. To the extent that Part B., Section I. prohibits or restricts prospective uses of prohibited HFCs
(phases out), it does not conflict with any current applicable federal regulations.

(IV) Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply in a
more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-
media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
requirements later;

Part A: Part A will maintain reporting requirements for facilities already required to report under Part 98
and will require additional facilities to report under reporting protocols either set forth in Part 98 and
related subparts or under state reporting requirements already in place (i.e. oil and natural gas operations
reporting under Regulation Number 7). By leveraging existing protocols and reporting procedures, Part A
minimizes inefficiencies while still accomplishing the legislative mandate set forth in § 25-7-140, C.R.S.




                                                                                                            45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Part B., Section I: To the extent Part B., Section I. requires manufacturers to replace HFCs, there are no
applicable federal requirements as contemplated in this regulation. As a result of the D.C. Circuit Court’s
partial vacature of SNAP Rules 20 and 21 and EPA’s lack of progress in further regulating HFCs, there
are no current applicable federal requirements relating to the phase-out of HFCs as contemplated in this
regulation However, Part B., Section I imposes restrictions on the same substances as those restricted
under SNAP Rules 20 and 21 with which the regulated community had already started to comply before
those rules were vacated. Absent federal progress in regulating use of these highly potent GHGs,
individual states have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, statutes and regulations phasing out the
use of HFCs in manufacturing and end-use products. The U.S. Climate Alliance has drafted a model
framework to promote uniformity of HFC regulation. Part B., Section I. is based upon the U.S. Climate
Alliance’s model framework as are proposed HFC rules under consideration in other states. This
consistency is intended to improve the regulated community’s ability to comply in a more cost-effective
manner.

(V) Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
federal requirements;

Part A: The March 31 annual reporting deadline is the same under Regulation Number 22 and Part 98 for
all reporters. Regulation Number 22 does not affect federal GHG reporting requirements for those
sources subject to federal reporting requirements. With respect to any sources required to report under
Regulation Number 22 but not under federal requirements, there is no timing issue related to
implementation of any federal requirements.

Part B., Section I.: To the extent Regulation Number 22, Part B., Section I., requires manufacturers to
replace HFCs, there are no applicable federal requirements as a result of the D.C. Circuit Court’s
vacature of SNAP Rules 20 and 21 and EPA’s lack of progress in further regulating HFCs. To the extent
that Regulation Number 22, Part B., Section I., prohibits or restricts prospective uses of prohibited HFCs
(phases out), there are no timing issues that justify changing the time frame for implementation of any
federal requirements.

(VI) Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin for
accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

Part A: Part A’s annual GHG reporting requirements are retrospective in that they are a report of past
emissions and therefore are not subject to uncertainty and do not hinder or negatively affect future growth
of facilities required to report past emissions.

Part B., Section I.: The HFC phase-out in Part B., Section I. allows a reasonable time to comply and
permits the substitution of lower-GWP substances or retrofit of components. As such, affected businesses
or industrial sectors are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future
growth.

(VII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the requirements
for various sources;

Part A: With respect to any sources already required to report GHG emissions under the federal reporting
requirements, Part A, maintains reasonable equity as reporting requirements are the same for each
source type. With respect to any sources newly required to report GHG emissions under Part A, the rule
establishes reasonable equity as reporting requirements are the same for each source type.




                                                                                                         46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Part B., Section I.: Part B., Section I., phases-out the use of HFCs across specific end-uses and
manufacturing processes, with only limited exemptions or alternative compliance requirements.
Reasonable equity is established among these end-uses and processes by use of phase-out dates that
are the same as those determined to be achievable with industry input in the development of the SNAP
rules and the U.S. Climate Alliance’s model framework. Part B., Section I. was also based upon the U.S.
Climate Alliance’s model framework to allow those subject to the rule to avoid varying requirements
across states to the extent possible while still addressing the serious climate change impacts these
substances present.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

Part A: No, it is not anticipated there would be increased direct costs to others if a more stringent rule is
not enacted.

Part B., Section I.: The legislature has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy
and directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across the many sectors of our economy. Colorado
has established specific GHG reduction goals. A more stringent HFC rule could achieve additional GHG
reductions. Reductions not achieved in one sector will require measures in other sectors of the economy
to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals. The HFC rule is drafted to strike a balance between the costs
to the entities impacted under the rule and further measures that will need to be utilized in other sectors of
the economy.

(IX) Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements that
are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling reason” is for
different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;

Part A: Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are necessary to effectively
quantify and measure Colorado’s progress toward statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public
health, safety and welfare goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., dictates that
the Commission tailor new [GHG] reporting requirements to fill any gaps in the existing federal reporting
requirements and “allow for maintaining and updating state inventories that are sufficiently
comprehensive and robust.”

Through Part A, the Division proposes building upon established federal reporting requirements and
closes reporting gaps by lowering or eliminating reporting thresholds for certain sources, expanding
certain other source categories, and requiring new source categories to report GHG emissions in order to
establish a more robust and accurate GHG inventory for Colorado. Filling gaps in emission data from
those select sources not otherwise required to report under Part 98 in order to more accurately determine
statewide GHG emissions and develop reduction strategies is a compelling reason to expand the
reporting requirements. Additionally, under Part A, Section IV.C., electric service providers and electric
utilities will be required to submit supplemental data necessary to verify GHG emissions attributable to
imported and exported electricity and to verify plans submitted to the Public Utilities Commission. Under
this requirement, owners and operators of these sources will be required to compile and report directly to
the Division information collected by or available to them for business or other regulatory purposes. While
this may overlap with some other federal reporting requirements, it is expected there will be reporting
beyond what is required federally.

Part B., Section I: To the extent Part B., Section I., requires manufacturers to replace HFCs, there are no
current applicable federal requirements as a result of the D.C. Circuit Court’s vacature of SNAP Rules 20
and 21 and EPA’s lack of progress in further regulating HFCs.




                                                                                                                47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


(X) Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

Part A: Part A maintains reporting requirements for facilities already required to report under Part 98 and
will require additional facilities to report under reporting protocols either set forth in Part 98 and related
subparts or under state reporting requirements already in place (i.e. oil and gas operations).
Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the reporting requirements of Regulation
Number 22.

Part B., Section I.: Yes, non-HFC replacements with significantly lower GWP are generally available and
widely used in manufacturing processes and end-uses phased out in Part B., Section I.

(XI) Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a potential
problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

Part A: Under Part A the Commission will develop a sufficiently comprehensive and robust GHG inventory
to enable and inform future implementation strategies to cost-effectively reduce statewide GHG emissions
to meet the legislative directive of § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S.

Part B., Section I: The General Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s
economy and directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across the many sectors of our economy.
Colorado has established specific GHG reduction goals. HFCs are a highly potent GHG such that small
volumes of reduction can affect significant reductions of GHG emissions measured in CO2e. A more
stringent HFC rule could achieve additional GHG reductions. Reductions not achieved in one sector will
require compensating measures in other sectors of the economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction
goals. Part B., Section I. is drafted to strike a balance between the costs to the entities impacted under
the rule and further measures that will need to be utilized in other sectors of the economy.

(XII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required standard.

Part A: § 25-7-140, C.R.S., does not permit a no-action alternative and requires the Commission to adopt
GHG reporting regulations “to allow for maintaining and updating state inventories that are sufficiently
comprehensive and robust.” Further, the statute requires the rules “include requirements for providers of
retail and wholesale electric service in the state of Colorado to track and report emissions from all
generation sources within the state and elsewhere that electricity consumption by their customers in this
state causes to be emitted.” While alternative requirements could address these mandates, the
Commission has determined that the proposed reporting requirements are appropriate to establish
statewide progress towards the GHG emission reduction goals mandated by the General Assembly in §
25-7-102, C.R.S. To the extent alternative reporting thresholds and source categories were considered,
they were determined to be inadequate to satisfy the directives set forth in § 25-7-140, C.R.S.

Part B., Section I.: §§ 25-7-105(1)(e) and -140(2)(a)(III), C.R.S., require the Commission to implement
GHG emission reduction strategies in order to accomplish the statewide GHG emission reduction goals
set forth in § 25-7-102(g), C.R.S. HFCs are a highly potent GHG such that small volumes of reduction can
affect significant reductions of GHG emissions measured in CO2e. A more stringent HFC rule could
achieve additional GHG reductions. Reductions not achieved in one sector will require compensating
measures in other sectors of the economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals.

Part B, Section I. rule is drafted to strike a balance between the costs to the entities impacted under the
rule and further measures that will need to be utilized in other sectors of the economy. While the General
Assembly has not explicitly required implementation of an HFC phase-out as a reduction strategy and
therefore a no-action alternative is possible, given the statewide reduction goals and the potency of
HFCs, no action on HFCs would require more stringent measures in other sectors in order to achieve the
same GHG reductions.




                                                                                                             48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


§ 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

To the extent that the § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering
all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(a) These rules are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information made
available by interested parties has been considered.

(b) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction in
emission of HFCs and will enable the Commission to establish sufficiently comprehensive and robust
inventories of GHGs as required by § 25-7-140, C.R.S.

(c) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about reductions in risks to human
health and the environment that will justify the costs to government, the regulated community, and to the
public to implement and comply with the rule.

(d) The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results and reduction in air
pollution.

(e) The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S. - Statewide GHG Pollution Abatement

To the extent that the § 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

Any impacts to disproportionately impacted communities and (IV) Coordination with other state agencies,
stakeholders, and the public:

The Commission carefully considered the concerns of and potential impacts on communities
disproportionately impacted by climate change in the following ways:

Stakeholder engagement: The Division provided multiple ways for the public, local governments, industry,
environmental groups, and other stakeholders to provide comment during the development of the
proposed rules. Opportunities for input included email, remote stakeholder meeting participation, and in-
person meeting participation. Public stakeholder meetings were held from early afternoon until after 6pm
in both Denver and Glenwood Springs, to maximize access for working and busy individuals. Language
interpretation services for stakeholder meetings were made available (though none were requested
during this process).

Potential economic impacts: The Division conducted outreach to determine potential impacts to
disproportionately impacted communities for Parts A and B., Section I. With respect to Part A, impacts on
local governments and small rural operations were significant considerations in determining whether to
require mandatory GHG reporting from domestic wastewater treatment facilities and municipal solid waste
landfills with emissions below the reporting threshold in 40 CFR Part 98.

Ultimately, in this rulemaking the Commission elected against mandatory reporting from these source
categories, but to allow voluntary reporting. While more robust GHG data has the potential to enhance
local climate efforts and ultimately reduce a variety of negative impacts on Colorado’s communities, the
Division recognizes that providing data can represent an administrative burden, particularly for small
operations with fewer staff and serving smaller communities.




                                                                                                            49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


For both domestic wastewater treatment and municipal solid waste landfill emissions (below the 40 CFR
Part 98 threshold) reporting, the Division identified available reporting protocols to minimize the burden of
the reporting process for any sources wishing to report voluntarily. In addition to public comments, the
Division considered stakeholder comments from organizations representing local governments, local
wastewater districts and the Wastewater Utility Council, and conducted outreach to the Solid Waste
Association of North America’s Colorado Chapter in the drafting of the proposed GHG reporting rule.

For Part B., Section I., Division outreach efforts sought to determine if any manufacturers (large or small)
of equipment or small niche end-uses that might be impacted by the proposed HFC reduction rule exist in
the state. Based on discussions with industry partners and trade groups, as well as online research and
communication with the Colorado Department of Labor & Employment (CDLE), the Division was able to
confirm that Trane has a chiller manufacturing facility in Pueblo, Colorado that employs approximately
500 individuals. The potential impacts of Part B., Section I. on this facility and area jobs was carefully
considered in the development of Part B, Section I. and the Commission has adopted an innovative
solution to protect these important jobs while also achieving necessary climate benefits. Accordingly, the
Commission has determined that the HFC-phase out in Part B., Section I. will not result in an
accumulation of negative or lack of positive environmental, health, economic, or social conditions in a
manner that disproportionately impacts certain communities within the state.

Coordination with other jurisdictions:

Absent federal enforcement regulating HFCs, individual states have adopted, or are in the process of
adopting, statutes and regulations phasing out the use of HFCs in manufacturing and end-use products.
The U.S. Climate Alliance has drafted a model framework to promote uniformity of HFC regulation. Part
B., Section I. is based upon the U.S. Climate Alliance’s model framework as are draft rules under
consideration in other states.

Additional Considerations:

Having considered all relevant information in the record and those factors set forth in § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(VI), C.R.S., the Commission has determined that Parts A and B., Section I. are appropriate
measures necessary to implement statewide GHG pollution abatement. The Commission concludes that
GHG reporting in Part A and the HFC phase-out in Part B., Section I. will either directly result in health,
environmental, and air quality benefits or otherwise enable the Commission and General Assembly to
better regulate GHG emissions in the future through a more robust inventory.

Furthermore, based on the Division’s Final Economic Impact Analysis, the costs of compliance with Parts
A and B., Section I. and any negative impacts to Colorado’s jobs and economy are considerably
outweighed by these benefits. Based on the Division’s analysis, Part B., Section I. is anticipated to result
in statewide GHG reductions in Colorado of about 560 thousand metric tons CO2e in 2025 and 1.15
million metric tons CO2e in 2030. Additionally, as these regulations will lower GHG emissions and the
General Assembly has determined that reducing GHG emissions will result in economic and jobs growth
by creating new markets, spurring innovation, and driving investments in low-carbon technologies. The
time necessary for compliance under Parts A and B., Section I. reflect consideration of existing state and
federal requirements as well as feedback from stakeholders. As described in significant detail, Part A will
enable the Commission to better inventory analyze statewide GHG emission sources across diverse
sectors and sources by utilizing existing federal reporting requirements in 40 CFR Part 98 and also
expanding those requirements. Parts A and B., Section I. are therefore determined to be appropriate and
cost-effective.

II.     Adopted: August 19, 2021 (Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section I.)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and -110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.




                                                                                                           50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Basis

The Commission is amending Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section I., to revise the definitions of “Rigid
Polyurethane High-pressure Two-component Spray Foam” and “Rigid Polyurethane Low-pressure Two-
component Spray Foam” found in the existing Hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) prohibitions rule (Part B,
Sections I.B.40. and I.B.41.) to more accurately describe the noted products or end-uses.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration
of the Act.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and regulations
consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. In adopting GHG
abatement strategies and implementing rules, the Commission is authorized to take into account other
relevant laws and rules to enhance efficiency and cost-effectiveness and solicit input from other state
agencies and stakeholders on the advantages of different statewide GHG pollution mitigation measures.
§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(II), (IV), C.R.S. Implementing rules may include regulatory strategies that “enhance cost-
effectiveness, compliance flexibility, and transparency around compliance costs.” § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V),
C.R.S.

Further, in promulgating such implementing rules, the Commission is to consider many factors, including,
but not limited to: health, environmental, and air quality benefits and costs; the relative contribution of
each source or source category to statewide GHG pollution; equitable distribution of the benefits of
compliance; issues related to the beneficial use of electricity to reduce GHG emissions; and whether
greater or more cost-effective emission reductions are available through program design. § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(VI), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission “maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and [promulgating] such [a] combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to
carry out that program.” § 25-7-109(1), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to adopt and promulgate
emission control regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for each type of
facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of air pollutants. An
“emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its terms is applicable to a specified
type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution
emitted from such type of facility, process, or activity. . . .” § 25-7-103(11), C.R.S. Emission control
regulations may pertain to any chemical compound including GHG pollution and emissions of ozone
precursors. See § 25-7-109(2)(c), C.R.S.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in amending Regulation Number 22, Part B,
Section I, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for these amendments:

Part B.I: Amendments to definitions of certain HFC end-uses




                                                                                                             51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


The Commission amended the definitions of “Rigid Polyurethane High-pressure Two-component Spray
Foam” and “Rigid Polyurethane Low-pressure Two-component Spray Foam” in Regulation Number 22,
Part B, Section I to more accurately describe these products or end-uses. Because the definitions
adopted in May 2020 were not technically accurate in describing the end-uses, there was concern the
end-uses may not be actually covered under the rule as was intended. The definitions adopted in May
2020 came from the U.S. Climate Alliance’s model framework for HFC regulation and were based on
language describing the noted end-uses in the preamble to the EPA Significant New Alternatives Policy
(SNAP) Program, Rule 21.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

Part B.I: The Commission amended two definitions in this rule in order to more accurately describe these
products or end-uses. These amendments do not alter or change the analysis of these additional
considerations under § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., for Part B, Section I. that was conducted at the time of its
original adoption in May 2020.

§ 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

To the extent that the § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering
all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(a) These rules are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information made
available by interested parties has been considered.

(b) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction in
GHG pollution and/or ozone precursors as transportation co-pollutants and will enable the Commission to
satisfy the requirements of §§ 25-7-102, -105(1)(e), -106, and/or -109, C.R.S., as applicable.

(c) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about reductions in risks to human
health and the environment that will justify the costs to government, the regulated community, and to the
public to implement and comply with the rule.

(d) The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results and reduction in air
pollution.

(e) The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the
regulation.

III.    (Removed and placed in Regulation Number 27 April 20, 2023)

IV.     (Removed and placed in Regulation Number 7 April 20, 2023.)

V.      (Removed and placed in Regulation Number 27 April 20, 2023)




                                                                                                          52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


VI.     Adopted: November 18, 2022

Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part C.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2021 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted revisions to several Colorado
Revised Statutes through Senate Bill 21-264 (SB 21-264) (Concerning the adoption of programs by gas
utilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and, in connection therewith, making an appropriation) that
directed, among other things, the Commission to adopt rules establishing recovered methane protocols
for coal mines, biomethane, and gas system leaks. §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4)-(X.8), C.R.S.; see also § 40-
3.2-108, C.R.S.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the State Air Act or
the Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as
are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7. The Act provides the Commission broad authority to
regulate air pollutants, including GHG and its constituent gasses (particularly carbon dioxide, methane,
and nitrous oxide).

Pursuant to § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4), the Commission must, by February 1, 2023, adopt rules establishing
recovered methane protocols for coal mines, biomethane, and gas system leaks and a crediting and
tracking system for recovered methane.

Purpose

In response to SB 21-264, the Commission adopted recovered methane protocols for biomethane, coal
mine methane, and gas system leaks. These protocols must be used for gas distribution utilities to take
credit for the greenhouse gas emission reductions from the recovered methane projects in the utility’s
clean heat plan. Accordingly, the Commission also adopted a crediting and tracking system for recovered
methane.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found through the regulation.

Clean Heat Plans

Through SB 21-264, the Colorado General Assembly required gas distribution utilities and municipal gas
utilities to develop and implement clean heat plans that demonstrate projected reductions in methane and
carbon dioxide emissions at the lowest reasonable cost. § 40-3.2-108(2)(b), C.R.S. Requirements for
submission of clean heat plans differ between gas distribution utilities with more than ninety thousand
retail customers, small gas distribution utilities with ninety thousand or fewer retail customers, and
municipal gas distribution utilities with ninety thousand or more retail customers. See § 40-3.2-108,
C.R.S.; and see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.8), C.R.S.




                                                                                                          53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Gas distribution utilities with ninety thousand or more retail customers must file with the Public Utilities
Commission (PUC) clean heat plans that will reduce carbon dioxide and methane emissions from the
distribution and end-use combustion of gas to meet specified clean heat targets relative to a 2015
baseline. In 2025, the clean heat plans must reduce emissions at least four percent in 2025, of which no
more than one percent can be from recovered methane, and twenty-two percent in 2030, of which no
more than five percent can be from recovered methane. § 40-3.2-108(3)(b)(II), C.R.S. The largest gas
distribution utility in the state, Xcel Energy, must file its clean heat plan with the PUC no later than August
1, 2023 and all other gas distribution utilities must file clean heat plans with the PUC no later than
January 1, 2024. These first plans must demonstrate that the clean heat plan will accomplish the 2025
clean heat targets.

Small gas distribution utilities, those with ninety thousand or fewer retail customers, may elect to file with
the PUC clean heat plans accomplishing the same clean heat targets as the larger gas distribution utilities
or, alternatively, may submit a small utility emission reduction plan. See § 40-3.2-108(9), C.R.S. These
clean heat plans would be subject to the same clean heat targets as those for larger gas distribution
utilities. Id. In a small utility emission reduction plan, the utility can set its own emission reduction targets.
Id.

The PUC has opened a rulemaking proceeding, No. 21R-0449G, to adopt rules governing clean heat
plans gas distribution and small gas distribution utilities no later than December 1, 2022. § 40-3.2-
108(5)(b), C.R.S.

A municipal gas distribution utility, being a municipally owned utility that provides gas service to more
than ninety thousand customers, must submit its clean heat plan to the Division no later than August 1,
2023. § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.8)(C), C.R.S. Like the other utilities, a municipal gas distribution utility’s clean
heat plan must reduce emissions at least four percent in 2025, of which no more than one percent can be
from recovered methane, and twenty-two percent in 2030, of which no more than five percent can be from
recovered methane. Id.

All clean heat plans, whether submitted to the PUC or Division and whether mandatory or voluntary, may
incorporate clean heat resources that can include recovered methane in order to accomplish the
emissions reductions needed for the pertinent clean heat target. See § 40-3.2-108(2)(c), C.R.S. (defining
“clean heat resource” to include recovered methane); see also § 40-3.2-108(4)(c), C.R.S. (describing
clean heat portfolio requirements). The use of recovered methane in these portfolios is a limited, but
potentially critical aspect of utilities successfully accomplishing clean heat targets. Accordingly, the
Commission through these regulations is adopting robust recovered methane protocols that will rigorously
evaluate any recovered methane projects before awarding credits that can be used towards clean heat
plan compliance and is establishing a crediting and tracking system that will enable efficient and effective
accounting and exchange of recovered methane credits.

Recovered Methane Protocol Selection

The proposed recovered methane protocols were selected with input from the public as well as members
of the recovered methane technical work group. The technical work group members were selected based
on technical expertise for the specific subgroups (gas distribution system leaks, coal mine methane, and
biomethane) and environmental justice expertise. Subgroups included representation from academia,
industry, utilities, environmental groups, and local governments. Members of the public could also attend
the technical work group meetings and provide written comments throughout the process. Technical work
group meetings were held on ten occasions between January and July 2022. The technical work groups
considered various project types and protocols to satisfy the statutory directives set forth in SB21-264,
including international Clean Development Mechanism protocols, California Air Resource Board (CARB)
protocols and American Carbon Registry (ACR) protocols, among others, before making
recommendations on those to be proposed to this Commission. Public stakeholder meetings regarding
the recovered methane protocols were also held on three occasions in June of 2022 along with a
presentation to the Climate Equity Advisory Council.




                                                                                                               54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


The gas distribution system leaks subgroup consisted of representatives from Colorado State University,
Geosyntec, Xcel Energy, Black Hills Energy, Atmos Energy, Colorado Springs Utilities, Summit Utilities,
Radicle, Western Resource Advocates, Southwest Energy Efficiency Project, International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, and the City and County of Denver.

The coal mine methane capture subgroup consisted of representatives from Geosyntec, Delta Brick,
Environmental Commodities Corporation, Energy Smart Solutions, Radicle, Environmental Defense Fund,
Colorado Springs Utilities, Colorado Mining Association, Peabody Energy, Colorado State University,
Xcel Energy, and the City and County of Denver.

The biomethane subgroup consisted of representatives from Western Resource Advocates, Radicle,
Natural Resource Defense Council, Colorado Dept of Agriculture, Sheldon Kye Energy, Metro Water
Recovery, Black Hills Energy, Colorado Springs Utilities, Ramboll, Renewable Natural Gas Coalition,
Camco International, Xcel Energy, City and County of Denver, and Summit Utilities.

Pursuant to § 40-3.2-108(2)(p), C.R.S., recovered methane protocols must: specify relevant data
collection and monitoring procedures and emission factors; account for uncertainty, activity-shifting
leakage risks, and market-shifting leakage risks associated with a type of recovered methane project;
determine data verification requirements; and specify procedures for approving entities accredited for
verification of ongoing greenhouse gas emission reductions or greenhouse gas removal enhancements.
In satisfaction of these requirements, the Commission has adopted the following recovered methane
protocols:

Biomethane from manure management systems - The Commission has selected the “Compliance Offset
Protocol Livestock Projects” adopted by CARB on November 14, 2014 to quantify GHG emission
reductions or GHG removal enhancements for biomethane recovered from manure management
systems. This protocol meets the requirements in the statutory definition of “recovered methane protocol”
by clearly identifying data collection and monitoring procedures, emission factors, and data verification
requirements for projects that capture methane from manure management systems. Chapter 5 of the
protocol lays out methods and equations to quantify greenhouse gas emission reductions from a project,
including establishing the project baseline, and Appendix A has the emission factors to be used in the
quantification methodology. Chapter 6 specifies the data collection and monitoring procedures of the
protocol. The protocol also includes an additionality evaluation component found in Chapter 3 (Eligibility).
The protocol addresses uncertainty by having rigorous data collection and monitoring procedures and
includes a methodology for data substitution if necessary as found in Appendix B. The protocol also has a
verification requirement in Chapter 8 that requires a CARB accredited offset verification body to verify all
GHG reductions or GHG removal enhancements from a livestock manure management systems project.




                                                                                                         55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Methane derived from municipal solid waste - The Commission has selected Version 2.0 of the “Landfill
Gas Destruction and Beneficial Use Projects” methodology (April 2021; Errata & Clarification October 25,
2022) issued by ACR to quantify GHG emission reductions or GHG removal enhancements for methane
derived from municipal solid waste. This protocol meets the requirements in the statutory definition of
“recovered methane protocol” by clearly identifying data collection and monitoring procedures, emission
factors, and data verification requirements for projects that capture methane from municipal solid waste.
Chapter 3 of the protocol summarizes how to make a baseline determination and perform an additionality
assessment for the project. Chapter 4 lays out methods and equations to quantify greenhouse gas
emission reductions from the project and addresses leakage issues, which the protocol indicates does not
apply to landfill gas projects. Appendix B has the emission factors to be used in the application of the
protocol. Chapter 5 specifies the data collection and monitoring procedures of the protocol. The protocol
addresses uncertainty by having rigorous data collection and monitoring procedures. Validation and
verification requirements for use of the protocol and confirming the GHG reductions or GHG removal
enhancements from a municipal solid waste methane recovery project will be met by a body or
organization accredited under the Accreditation Program for Greenhouse Gas Validation/Verification
Bodies (GHGVVB) of the ANSI National Accreditation Board (ANAB) as required under Part C, Section
I.C.7.a. All bodies accredited under GHGVVB to perform verification services for a specific project type
utilizing an ACR protocol or methodology are acceptable to ACR so long as ACR’s requirements and
approval to conduct verification for the specific project type have also been met (see exhibit “ACR VV
Standard_V1.1_May 31 2018” and ACR Validation and Verification requirements at
https://americancarbonregistry.org/carbon-accounting/verification/verification).

Methane derived from wastewater treatment - The Commission has selected Version 2.1 of the “Organic
Waste Digestion Protocol” (January 16, 2014; Errata and Clarifications November 1, 2018) issued by the
Climate Action Reserve (CAR) to quantify GHG emission reductions or GHG removal enhancements for
methane derived from wastewater treatment. This protocol meets the requirements in the statutory
definition of “recovered methane protocol” by clearly identifying data collection and monitoring
procedures, emission factors, and data verification requirements for projects that capture methane from
wastewater treatment. Chapter 5 of the protocol lays out methods and equations to be used in order to
quantify greenhouse gas emission reductions from a project, including establishing the project baseline,
and Appendix B has emission factors to be used in the quantification methodology. Chapter 6 specifies
the data collection and monitoring procedures of the protocol. The protocol addresses uncertainty by
incorporating baseline and project uncertainty factors into its calculation methodologies. The protocol also
includes an additionality evaluation component found in Chapter 3 (Eligibility Rules) and a verification
requirement in Chapter 8. Verification requirements for use of the CAR protocol and confirming the GHG
reductions or GHG removal enhancements from a wastewater treatment methane recovery project will be
met by a body or organization accredited under the Accreditation Program for GHGVVB of the ANAB as
required under Part C, Section I.C.7.a.

All bodies accredited under GHGVVB to perform verification services for a specific project type utilizing a
CAR protocol are acceptable to CAR so long as CAR’s requirements to conduct verification for the
specific project type have also been met. CAR will conduct validation of projects that use its protocols. As
the CAR protocol applies only to certain wastewater treatment facilities, Section I.C.4.a., also provides
that Facilities or operations that exclusively accept or rely on livestock manure must use CARB’s
“Compliance Offset Protocol finalized on November 14, 2014 because this protocol is specific to that type
of operation. Per Part C, Section I.C.7.b., verification under the CARB protocol must be completed by an
entity accredited by CARB for this type of project.




                                                                                                          56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


The Commission also adopted a novel protocol for domestic wastewater treatment facilities using
anaerobic digesters at Section I.C.4.b. This protocol is necessary because it is the practice and regulatory
expectation in Colorado that such facilities capture and either control or use methane from anaerobic
digesters, irrespective of any recovered methane program. However, to the extent that a facility elects to
deliver methane it captures for use instead of on-site destruction, the Commission recognizes that there is
an additional GHG emission reduction benefit that should qualify for a recovered methane credit based on
the recovered methane not being destroyed on-site through flaring and instead displacing use of
geological gas supplied by a gas utility. The protocol established in Section I.C.4.b. meets the
requirements in the statutory definition of “recovered methane protocol” by clearly identifying data
collection and monitoring procedures, emission factors, and data verification requirements for projects
that capture methane from domestic wastewater treatment facilities using anaerobic digesters. The
protocol clearly establishes the project baseline, identifies data collection and monitoring procedures,
emission factors, and data verification requirements for projects that capture methane from domestic
wastewater treatment facilities using anaerobic digesters. Project baselines are determined pursuant to
Section I.C.4.b.(i) and Section I.C.4.b.(ii) sets out the means of assuring emissions reductions are
additional. Data collection, monitoring procedures, and emission factors are addressed in Section
I.C.4.b.(iii) through I.C.4.b.(vi). As the emissions savings from this type of project are based entirely on
combusting recovered methane instead of geological gas in an end-use and therefore focused on
methane combustion, the procedures and methodologies set forth in Subpart NN of 40 CFR Part 98,
governing GHG emissions reporting from suppliers of natural gas and natural gas liquids, are sufficiently
analogous to use for this protocol. Thus, the Commission incorporates by reference the applicable
provisions of Subpart NN for this protocol. Data verification requirements and minimizing uncertainty in
the emission reductions are addressed in Section I.C.4.b.(vi). There, the Division recommends
incorporating the existing monitoring, quality assurance and quality control requirements, and data
reporting in 40 CFR §§ 98.404-406 as appropriate means of quantifying emissions reductions from these
facilities insofar as they are applicable to the emissions calculation provisions of 40 CFR § 98.403. The
third-party verification process will confirm that the protocol requirements were followed to establish
emission reductions. The Division will work with ANAB to establish validation standards to be followed for
the protocol.

Coal mine methane - The Commission has selected Version 1.1 of the “Capturing and Destroying
Methane from Coal and Trona Mines in North America” methodology (August 2022) issued by the
American Carbon Registry (ACR) to quantify GHG emission reductions or GHG removal enhancements
for coal mine methane. This protocol meets the requirements in the statutory definition of “recovered
methane protocol” by clearly identifying data collection and monitoring procedures, emission factors, and
data verification requirements for projects that capture coal mine methane. Chapter 5 of the protocol lays
out methods and equations to quantify greenhouse gas emission reductions from a project, including
establishing the project baseline, and Appendix A has the emission factors to be used in the quantification
methodology. Chapter 6 specifies the data collection and monitoring procedures of the protocol. The
protocol addresses uncertainty by having rigorous data collection and monitoring procedures. The
protocol also includes an additionality evaluation component found in Chapter 3 (Eligibility) and has a
verification requirement in Chapter 7.

Verification requirements for use of the protocol and confirming the GHG reductions or GHG removal
enhancements from a coal mine methane project will be met by a body or organization accredited under
the Accreditation Program for GHGVVB of the ANAB as required under Part C, Section I.C.7.a. All bodies
accredited under GHGVVB to perform verification services for a specific project type utilizing an ACR
protocol or methodology are acceptable to ACR so long as ACR’s requirements and approval to conduct
verification for the specific project type have also been met.




                                                                                                         57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Gas distribution system leaks - The Division’s review of available gas distribution system leak accounting
approaches did not identify any published protocols that quantified system leakage for purposes of
creating recovered methane credits as described in §§ 40-3.2-108 and 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4), C.R.S.
Hence, the Division proposes a novel protocol in Section I.C.6. In order to verify additionality and for
recovered methane credits to be issued, individual repaired leaks must not be part of the utility’s required
leak detection and repair procedures and emissions reduced must be quantified following written
procedures in Part C, Section I.C.6. The written procedures must identify the measurements and other
data required to be collected in order to quantify the mass emissions of methane, the processes and
instrumentation used to collect the data, and the quality assurance requirements necessary to ensure
accurate measurements from the instrumentation for each leak. Section I.C.6.a.(ii)(C) sets out the
requirements for confirming that a leak is repaired and no longer emitting gas. Section I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(1)
provides the parameters that an applicant’s procedure must satisfy to confirm leak repairs and is intended
to allow reasonable flexibility while ensuring certainty that emissions reductions from repaired leaks are
real and verified. As used in Section I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(2), the detection sensitivity of equipment or techniques
used for post-repair verification must be at least as capable of detecting emissions from the repaired
equipment as that which was used for initial measurement. As recognized in Section I.C.6.a.(ii)(C)(3),
certain leaks may be mitigated by removing the equipment or component permanently from the gas
distribution system, in which case a post mitigation measurement is not possible. The Division will review
and approve the proposed methodologies in the written procedures submitted by the company and the
third-party verification process will confirm that the written procedures were followed and that all data
required in the procedures was collected. The Division will work with ANAB to establish validation
standards to be followed for the protocol.

Double-counting of emissions reductions in a Clean Heat Plan filing is avoided because any referenced
methods utilized in a gas utility’s projected future emissions cannot also generate recovered methane
credits under this program. Any utility applying for credits under Section I.C.6. must certify that any leak
repairs for which credits are sought are not included as part of the system planning baseline and
projected emissions in a proposed or approved Clean Heat Plan. The Division may confirm this by
reviewing the applicant’s Clean Heat Plan. Conversely, it is the Commission’s understanding of the Public
Utilities Commission’s rules in 4 Colo. Code. Regs. 723-4 that emissions changes in a proposed or
approved Clean Heat Plan resulting from revised federal reporting requirements or advanced leak
detection and repair obligations enacted by the Colorado Public Utilities Commission or other regulatory
agency are included as part of the Clean Heat Plan baseline and projected emissions and not as a clean
heat resource for which recovered methane credits are required to be utilized. Finally, this recovered
methane protocol does not have activity- or market-shifting leakage risks as the methane is already in the
distribution pipeline.

Under Sections I.C.2.b., I.C.3.b., I.C.4.c., and I.C.5.b., project developers or operators are required to
account for any vehicular emissions from the delivery of recovered methane to a dedicated pipeline,
common carrier pipeline, or directly to an end user in Colorado. Vehicle fuel use attributable to delivery
under these provisions is to include any vehicle fuel consumed for travel to or from the project site to
retrieve or gather the recovered methane, for any gathering or collection activities, and travel to or from a
project site for delivery of recovered methane to a dedicated pipeline, common carrier pipeline, or directly
to an end user in Colorado.

The Commission has determined the protocols selected will not have activity- or market-shifting leakage
risks as the recovered methane protocols are intended to spur and assist in the development of projects
that reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Colorado but do not create an incentive for those utilizing the
protocols to then undertake activities that increase greenhouse gas emissions outside Colorado.




                                                                                                           58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


As the Commission is incorporating by reference a number of existing protocols, the Commission is
cognizant that future rulemakings will be necessary to update these incorporations. Likewise, the
Commission recognizes that the landscape of greenhouse gas accounting, including recovered methane
protocols, is ever-evolving and that additional protocols for additional recovered methane project types
may be appropriate for future amendments to this Part C. As such, the Commission encourages the
Division and stakeholders alike to monitor and evaluate developments in this field to ensure Colorado
continues to employ best practices for assessing emissions reductions and assigning corresponding
recovered methane credits, and to incorporate these new or updated protocols into these rules by written
comment only rulemaking as appropriate.

One area of particular interest expressed by stakeholders is the possibility of Colorado adopting a single
recovered methane protocol for all project types and the possibility to use a “life-cycle analysis” approach
for assessing emissions reductions. Hence, any person or entity may submit to the Division an
assessment of the benefits and costs associated with development and implementation of a single
combined recovered methane protocol for determining credits for recovered methane projects from
manure management systems, municipal solid waste, wastewater treatment, coal mine methane, and any
other projects contemplated in SB 21-264 as applicable. Such assessment should include, but is not
necessarily limited to, an assessment of a single combined recovered protocol that considers the life-
cycle emission impacts of the project to recover methane from manure management systems, municipal
solid waste, wastewater treatment, coal methane, and any other projects contemplated in SB 21-264 as
applicable, as well as a life-cycle emission evaluation or methodology for the geological gas the
recovered methane would be replacing. Any assessment shall evaluate the anticipated costs to the
Division for implementing such a protocol instead of those adopted in this proceeding, as well address all
requirements that apply to recovered methane protocols in SB 21-264. In order to facilitate a full
evaluation of any such assessment, the entity should provide the Division a proposed framework for the
assessment, including an outline of the evaluation of the benefits and costs that will be conducted as part
of the assessment. The Division will evaluate any such framework within a reasonable time (with a goal of
completing such evaluation within 90 days of receipt) and work with the person or entity developing the
assessment. The Division will also ensure that any calculation methodologies for emissions intensity are
consistent with all relevant calculation methodologies under air quality regulations, guidance, or policy.
The entity may also provide the Division a draft of the assessment prior to finalization and the Division will
provide feedback on the proposed draft within a reasonable time (with a goal of responding within 90
days of receipt). The Division may elect to submit such a proposal for a single recovered methane
protocol to the Commission for adoption. Within 180 days of receiving the final assessment, the Division
must notify the entity of whether it will submit a proposal to the Commission.

Procedures for Approving Entities Verifying GHG Reductions or Removal Enhancements

Consistent with § 40-3.2-108(2)(p), C.R.S., recovered methane protocols must “[s]pecify procedures
pursuant to which the air quality control commission must approve an entity that the division proposes to
accredit for verification of ongoing greenhouse gas emission reductions or greenhouse gas removal
enhancements.” The Commission has therefore required that all greenhouse gas reduction or removal
enhancements be verified by an accredited third-party. See Part C, Section I.C.7.

The Commission has determined that any entity engaged to verify ongoing GHG emission reductions
must, itself, be accredited to conduct such verification through the Accreditation Program for Greenhouse
Gas Validation/Verification Bodies of the ANSI National Accreditation Board (ANAB), or for manure
management system projects, be accredited by CARB for that project type.




                                                                                                           59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


ANAB accreditation for Greenhouse Gas Validation/Verification is a rigorous and extensive process in
which applying bodies must demonstrate technical competency and implementation of applicable
verification standards specific to greenhouse gas emissions. Namely, ANAB requires a verifying body to
faithfully implement the most current version(s) of ISO 14065 required by ANAB for accreditation and to
conduct verification. Currently, this includes ISO 14065:2013, Greenhouse gases - Requirements for
greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition,
and ISO 14065:2020, General principles and requirements for bodies validating and verifying
environmental information. ANAB is requiring that verification bodies or entities transition accreditation to
ISO 14065:2020 before the end of June 2024. ANAB also requires technical competency and
implementation of ISO 14064-3:2019, Greenhouse gases - Part 3: Specification with guidance for the
validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions, and ISO 14066:2011, Greenhouse gases -
Competence requirements for greenhouse gas validation teams and verification teams, for validation
bodies or entities, with ISO 14064-3: 2019 and 14066 being incorporated into ISO 14065 as normative
references.

The application and accreditation process is explained here https://anab.ansi.org/greenhouse-gas-
validation-verification/how-to-apply.

Once accredited, ANAB further requires ongoing surveillance of accredited entities and reassessment
every three years. ANAB maintains a current list of accredited entities, which can be found here:
https://anabpd.ansi.org/Accreditation/environmental/greenhouse-gas-validation-
verification/AllDirectoryListing?prgID=200&statusID=4.

Requiring that recovered methane projects be verified by entities accredited through this robust, pre-
existing program, the Commission intends to guarantee that recovered methane credits generated and
used for clean heat plan compliance are real, additional, quantifiable, and verifiable. As of July 2022,
there are 20 verifying bodies accredited under this program.

For projects for biomethane from manure management systems, which must use the “Compliance Offset
Protocol Livestock Projects” adopted by CARB on November 14, 2014, the verifying body must be
accredited through CARB for that project type. CARB’s accreditation program for greenhouse gas
emissions is found at California Code of Regulations, Title 17, § 95132, and the provisions specific to its
offset protocols that are relevant here are at California Code of Regulations, Title 17, § 95978.

A list of CARB-accredited verification bodies is available at:
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/resources/documents/accredited-offset-verification-bodies.

Should the Division or other stakeholders identify accreditation bodies or third-party verification programs
that are deemed sufficiently rigorous in addition to those identified in this proceeding, the Division or any
person or entity may petition the Commission to amend these rules accordingly.

Crediting and Tracking System

In conjunction with the protocols in Part C, Section I.C., the Commission established in Part C, Section
1.D.a. crediting and tracking system for recovered methane credits consistent with § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4),
C.R.S. This system is currently limited in scope to recovered methane credits and their limited use in
clean heat plan compliance under § 40-3.2-108(3), C.R.S., for gas distribution utilities and small gas
distribution utilities, and § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4), C.R.S., for municipal gas distribution utilities. Recovered
methane credits are not general purpose “GHG credits” that can be traded or used to meet GHG
compliance obligations by “regulated sources,” as that term is defined in § 25-7-105(1)(f)(B), C.R.S. The
recovered methane crediting and tracking system established in Part C, Section I.D. provides the
exclusive forum for the trading of recovered methane credits generated through qualifying projects,
verified through approved protocols, and used by utilities for clean heat plan compliance.




                                                                                                            60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


It is critical that credits are rigorously tracked to ensure the environmental attributes are not double-
counted since once credits are issued, they become fully tradable until they are retired or otherwise
expire.

Accordingly, the system functions in four phases: (1) registration, (2) project submission, (3) Division
review and credit generation, and (4) credit trading, use/retirement, and expiration.

Registration - Under Part C, Section I.D.1.a., entities wishing to participate in the recovered methane
crediting and tracking system must register with the Division and identify authorized users. Through the
registration process, it is necessary that authorized users bind the entities they represent as they will be
able to request the transfer of credits in the system.

Project Submission - Under Part C, Sections I.D.1.b. through I.D.1.i., I.D.3., and I.D.4., prior to the
generation of any recovered methane credits, the Division must receive information sufficient to
demonstrate that the applicant’s project satisfied all statutory requirements and guarantee all emissions
reductions or removal enhancements are real, additional, quantifiable, permanent, verifiable, and
enforceable.

As set forth in Part C, Sections I.D.1.g. and I.D.3, applicants seeking credits for recovered methane
projects for municipal solid waste and coal methane must first register with the ACR and establish credits
in that system for the project. Then, in order for ACR credits to be used in Colorado’s recovered methane
tracking system, the applicant must cancel the ACR credits without using them and provide such
evidence to the Division as part of its project submission. Pursuant to American Carbon Registry,
Requirements and Specifications for the Quantifications, Monitoring, Reporting, Verification, and
Registration of Project-Based GHG Emissions Reductions and Removals (Dec. 2020), to be eligible
under ACR, new projects must be validated within two years of the project Start Date, with limited
exceptions defined in the Standard.

Under Part C, Sections I.D.1.g. and I.D.4., the same process applies for applicants seeking credits for
recovered methane projects for wastewater treatment for which credits must first be established at the
Climate Action Reserve (CAR) Reserve Offset Program. Pursuant to the Version 2.1 of the “Organic
Waste Digestion Protocol” (January 16, 2014; Errata and Clarifications November 1, 2018) at Section 3.2,
to be eligible for registration with CAR, projects must be submitted to CAR no more than six months after
the project start date.

And, under Part C, Sections I.D.1.g. and I.D.5. the same process also applies for applicants seeking
credits for recovered methane projects for manure management systems if those projects are first
registered in a registry outside of the recovered methane system.

For all projects, the recovered methane credit in the Colorado system must represent the attribute of one
metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent reduced using the 100-yr value from the IPCC’s Fourth
Assessment Report (AR). In addition to the requirements of the protocols specified under Section I.C.,
applicants must provide information sufficient to demonstrate that any project for which credits are sought
meet the particular requirements of SB21-264 and this Part C.

One such requirement is a demonstration that the recovered methane project where emissions reductions
are credited be physically located in Colorado. Though the Commission is aware that certain parties to
this proceeding have advocated for allowing recovered methane credits to be generated from projects
located outside of Colorado, the Commission has determined that only projects located inside Colorado
are eligible for generating recovered methane credits. The Commission makes this determination to
remain consistent with the General Assembly’s direction that recovered methane means biomethane and
methane derived from specified sources “that are located in Colorado and meet a recovered methane
protocol approved by [this Commission].” § 40-3.2-108(2)(n), C.R.S.




                                                                                                               61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Further, requiring that recovered methane projects be in Colorado is necessary to ensure that the
emissions reductions realized through such projects and that the credits then utilized by gas utilities for
clean heat plan compliance reflect reductions in statewide greenhouse gas emissions. While it is possible
that SB21-264 could be interpreted differently and that reductions in greenhouse gas emissions outside of
Colorado will also have the effect of slowing climate change, such a reading would fail to further
Colorado’s interests in reducing statewide greenhouse gas pollution towards the goals established by the
General Assembly in § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. and would therefore be contrary to the clearly stated
legislative intent of SB 21-264. See § 40-3.2-108(1)(a), C.R.S. (citing the need to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions from the built environment “in order to achieve Colorado’s science-based greenhouse gas
emission reduction goals and maintain a healthy, livable climate for Coloradoans”).

Section I.D.1.e. requires an applicant to provide proof that recovered methane has been delivered to or
within Colorado through a “dedicated pipeline” or “common carrier pipeline.” SB 21-264 does not define
“dedicated pipeline.” Pursuant to feedback from parties to this proceeding, the Commission adopted a
definition of “dedicated pipeline” at Section I.B.7. that aligns with the legislative intent to reduce GHG
emissions in Colorado by replacing geological gas with recovered methane while broadly accounting for
the practical realities of potential recovered methane projects in Colorado. This approach, sometimes
referred to as a “virtual pipeline” allows for recovered methane to be transported in point-to-point
pipelines, but also through other conveyances such as trucks. It would also allow direct delivery of the
gas from the recovered methane project to the end user, without requiring that it be injected into a utility’s
distribution system so long as the project developer can demonstrate that but for the recovered methane,
the end-user would be consuming geologic gas from a utility. To this end, the proof that recovered
methane is replacing geological gas required under Section I.D.1.e.(i) is not intended to be an
engineering or technical showing but rather a demonstration that recovered methane is serving a demand
that would otherwise be fulfilled with geological gas. This could be satisfied with proof of delivery of the
recovered methane to its end use, gas utility bills showing that the end use was formerly served by a gas
utility, or similar showings.

Division Review and Credit Generation- upon receipt and verification of a complete submission under
Part C, Section I.D.1., the Division will generate recovered methane credits for the project in the system.
Sections I.D.1.e. through I.D.1.i. detail how the credits will be entered and tracked in the system in a
manner that will avoid double-counting of credits. Further, these sections provide for a system that
requires that recovered methane credits generated and used in the system are directly traceable to the
specific project from which they were created. The Division will retain the ability to audit and evaluate all
credit balances and generate reports that will be made publicly available.

Credit Trading and Use/Retirement and Expiration - As indicated in Part C, Section I.D.2.c., recovered
methane credits are active and tradable for twelve months after they are generated. This is consistent
with treatment of these credits as a clean heat resource in clean heat plans. See § 40-3.2-108(2)(c),
C.R.S. (“To qualify as a clean heat resource, all credits or severable, tradable mechanisms representing
the emission reduction attributes of the clean heat resource must be retired in the year generated and
may not be sold.”); see also § 40-3.2-108(7)(b) (“If a utility includes recovered methane, the utility shall
quantify actual emission reductions achieved on a project basis for each project for which it claims
reductions in that year, based on any recovered methane credits generated.”). During this period, the
credits in the system are fully tradable between and amongst registered entities. Within twelve months
from generation recovered methane credits must be used and retired as a clean heat resource for clean
heat compliance, see § 40-3.2-108(2)(c), C.R.S., otherwise they will expire and can no longer be used or
traded.




                                                                                                            62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to incorporate by
reference a code, standard, guideline, or rule that has been adopted by an agency of the United States,
this state, or another state, or adopted or published by a nationally recognized organization or
association. The criteria of § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., are met by including specific information and making
the regulations available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
includes reference dates to protocols, standards and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 22.

Additional Considerations

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

To the extent these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I) Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
requirements;

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation. Furthermore, Part C establishes a fully
voluntary, opt-in program therefore any part of the rule that “exceeds the requirements of the federal act
or differs from the federal act or rules thereunder” would be voluntarily submitted to and not mandated by
this rule.

(II) Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation.

(III) Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation
was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;

In SB 21-264, Colorado’s General Assembly found that “a significant source of [GHG] pollution from the
built environment comes from the use of gas to heat Colorado’s homes and businesses and to heat water
in those buildings, from the use of gas in the commercial and industrial processes, and from gas leaks in
the supply chain.” § 40-3.2-108(a)(II), C.R.S. Further, the General Assembly determined that “there is
significant potential to reduce emissions of methane from active and inactive coal mines, landfills,
wastewater treatment plants, agricultural operations, and other sources of methane pollution through
development of methane recovery and biomethane projects…” § 40-3.2-108(1)(b)(I), C.R.S. Hence, the
General Assembly established clean heat plan requirements, while providing an option for utilities to use
recovered methane as a clean heat resource to accomplish certain amounts of emissions reductions in
those plans.

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation.

(IV) Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply in a
more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-
media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
requirements later;




                                                                                                          63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


The allowance for meeting clean heat targets through the use of recovered methane credits is explicitly
made available to utilities as a means of more cost-effectively meeting those targets. See § 40-3.2-
108(1)(b), C.R.S. The protocols identified for these recovered methane projects are already in use in
other jurisdictions and therefore allow project developers to utilize existing resources, including the
American Carbon Registry and Climate Action Reserve’s existing registry systems. Furthermore,
utilization of these protocols and the crediting and tracking system is entirely voluntary for utilities.

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation nor any conflicting regulatory regimes that
require clarification.

(V) Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
federal requirements;

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation.

(VI) Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin for
accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

The proposed regulation does not impose any mandatory requirements. Rather, it provides a system for
regulatory flexibility for utilities to comply with clean heat targets through the use of recovered methane
credits. The protocols and recovered methane crediting and tracking system adopted in this Part C
inherently provide accommodation for uncertainty and future growth for utilities by providing a mechanism
for achieving a portion of their clean heat targets irrespective of customer demand. For recovered
methane project developers, there is no mandatory compliance requirement but the protocols and trading
system are entirely scalable and therefore accommodate uncertainty and future growth.

(VII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the requirements
for various sources;

The recovered methane protocols and crediting and tracking system in this voluntary, opt-in program are
equitable for both project developers seeking to generate credits on the system and for utilities seeking to
acquire and utilize those credits. Notably, Colorado’s General Assembly determined that reducing
emissions through recovered methane and biomethane projects provides “significant economic
development opportunities, especially in rural Colorado[.]” § 40-3.2-108(1)(b)(I), C.R.S.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

Arguably, the more stringent the requirements for recovered methane protocols or the more restrictive the
crediting and tracking system would impose higher barriers to entry and potentially limit participation
where it is not cost-effective. However, this itself would not increase costs but limit the cost-effectiveness
of this voluntary, opt-in program.

(IX) Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements that
are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling reason” is for
different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;

There are no federal requirements applicable to this situation.

(X) Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

Yes, both the recovered methane protocols and the crediting and tracking system are based on
demonstrated and available technology.

(XI) Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a potential
problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;




                                                                                                            64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


See responses to Items (III) and (IV) of this section.

(XII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required standard.

While the Commission had options in which recovered methane protocols to select and how to design the
crediting and tracking system, it has done so leveraging existing and tested options where available.
These rules are required under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4), C.R.S., and a no-action alternative is not available.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by interested parties.

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable reduction of
greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules will bring about reductions in risks to human
health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction in air pollution
and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
effective manner.

VII.    Adopted: April 20, 2023

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation Number 22, the
Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts and sections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the State Air Act or
the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such as the Commission, to review their
rules and consider whether the rule is necessary; whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of
the agency or with other federal, state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain
language and is easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more
or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more flexibility, reduce
regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while maintaining its benefits; whether the
rule is implemented in an efficient and effective manner, including the requirements for the issuance of
permits and licenses; whether a cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making
agency; and whether the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state
or its residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the existing rules
should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed.




                                                                                                              65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to Regulation
Number 22.

The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four regulations: Part B became Regulation
Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number 25; Part D remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E
became Regulation Number 26. The upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program
provisions currently in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing sector
greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation Number 27.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections throughout the
regulations.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

Additional Considerations

These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from the requirement
of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by interested parties.

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable reduction of
greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about reductions in risks to
human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction in air pollution
and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
effective manner.

VIII.   Adopted: July 18, 2024 (Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part C)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

The Commission adopted administrative amendments to Part C to update certain references and
incorporations by reference for recovered methane protocols.




                                                                                                              66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The recovered methane protocols set forth were adopted consistent with the Commission’s authority set
forth in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(X.4), C.R.S. The Commission is updating all incorporations by reference to the
most current versions of the incorporated codes, standards, guidelines, and rules in Regulation Number
22 consistent with § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to Regulation
Number 22, Part C.

At Part C, Section I.B.6. and throughout the rule (see Sections I.C.3.a., I.C.5.a., and I.D.3.), the amended
language removes the term “American Carbon Registry” and substitutes it with “ACR” since the American
Carbon Registry changed its name to ACR on October 5, 2023.

At Part C, Sections I.C.3.a. and I.C.5.a., the Commission updated the incorporation by reference dates of
the Errata and Clarification issued by ACR for the recovered methane protocols for municipal solid waste
landfills and coal mine methane.

Additionally, the amendments update the reference in Section I.D.2.a.(ii) from Regulation Number 22,
Part B, Sections II.I.2.a. through II.I.2.e. to Regulation Number 27, Part D, Sections II.C.1. through II.C.7.
due to the Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Management for Manufacturers (“GEMM”) Rule being
moved from Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section II. to Regulation Number 27 on April 20, 2023.

Finally, the November 18, 2022 Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose referenced
The ACR Standard, Requirements and Specifications for the Quantifications, Monitoring, Reporting,
Verification, and Registration of Project-Based GHG Emissions Reductions and Removals (Dec. 2020).
Moving forward, those utilizing ACR protocols for recovered methane as referenced in Part C should
follow the updated version of The ACR Standard (version 8.0) issued on July 1, 2023.

Additional Considerations

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

The revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part C, are administrative in nature and do not exceed or differ
from the requirements of the federal act or rules, therefore, 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings of Fact

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
        methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by interested
        parties.

(II)    Though much of the adopted rules are administrative in nature, to the extent they require
        emission reduction, evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules will bring about reductions in risks to
        human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction in air
        pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.




                                                                                                           67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most
        cost- effective manner.

IX.     Adopted: October 16, 2024 (Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part A)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act (Act), §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

The Commission adopted administrative amendments to Regulation Number, Part A to align Colorado’s
GHG reporting program with Federal reporting requirements for GHG emissions under 40 CFR, Part 98
per § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., and to update incorporation by reference dates consistent with § 24-4-
103(12.5), C.R.S. The Commission also adopted amendments to expand GHG reporting requirements for
municipal solid waste landfills in Colorado consistent with § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are
necessary for the proper implementation and administration of the Act. § 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the
Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality program and promulgating such a
combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program.

§§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(VI) and 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., authorize the Commission to harmonize Colorado’s
GHG reporting program with federal requirements and adopt rules requiring greenhouse gas-emitting
entities to monitor and publicly report their emissions as the Commission deems appropriate to support
Colorado's greenhouse gas emission inventory efforts. The Commission is updating all incorporations by
reference to the most current versions of the incorporated codes, standards, guidelines, and rules in
Regulation Number 22 consistent with § 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., and expanding GHG reporting
requirements to more municipal solid waste landfills statewide to support Colorado's greenhouse gas
emission inventory efforts.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to Regulation
Number 22, Part A.

The amendments update the incorporation by reference date for 40 CFR, Part 98 for all of Regulation
Number 22.

The revised Part 98 updates the global warming potential (GWP) values for GHGs to more current values
from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fifth and Sixth Assessment Reports
(AR5/AR6).

The revised Part 98 also adds mandatory reporting for five new source categories, for which Regulation
Number 22’s reporting requirements will align with federal requirements:

        •        Subpart VV (Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide with Enhanced Oil Recovery
                 Using ISO 27916)

        •        Subpart WW (Coke Calciners)




                                                                                                           68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


        •       Subpart XX (Calcium Carbide Production)

        •       Subpart YY (Caprolactam, Glyoxal, and Glyoxylic Acid Production)

        •       Subpart ZZ (Ceramics Production)

Finally, EPA’s revisions to Part 98 being incorporated into this amended Regulation Number 22 include
updates to address emission reporting requirements, update estimation methodologies, improve data
verification, and make other clarifications and corrections to the following existing subparts:

        •       A (General Provisions)

        •       C (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources)

        •       F (Aluminum Production)

        •       G (Ammonia Manufacturing)

        •       I (Electronics Manufacturing)

        •       N (Glass Production)

        •       P (Hydrogen Production)

        •       Q (Iron and Steel Production)

        •       S (Lime Production)

        •       U (Miscellaneous Uses of Carbonate)

        •       X (Petrochemical Production)

        •       Y (Petroleum Refineries)

        •       AA (Pulp and Paper Manufacturing)

        •       BB (Silicon Carbide Production)

        •       DD (Electrical Transmission and Distribution Equipment Use)

        •       FF (Underground Coal Mines)

        •       GG (Zinc Production)

        •       HH (Municipal Solid Waste Landfills)

        •       OO (Suppliers of Industrial Greenhouse Gases)

        •       PP (Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide)

        •      QQ (Importers and Exporters of Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Contained in Pre-
        Charged Equipment and Closed-Cell Foams)

        •       RR (Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide)




                                                                                                        69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


        •       SS (Electrical Equipment Manufacture or Refurbishment)

        •       UU (Injection of Carbon Dioxide)

As set forth in EPA’s update to Part 98, beginning in reporting year 2024, reporting facilities and entities
must use the updated global warming potential (GWP) values for emissions in Table A-1 of Subpart A of
Part 98. Additionally, beginning in reporting year 2025, reporting facilities and entities must follow the
updated requirements for the existing subparts specified above and the requirements for new Subparts
VV, WW, XX, YY, and ZZ. Any facilities or entities newly subject to reporting under Part 98 due to EPA’s
revisions to Part 98, will be subject to reporting beginning with reporting year 2025 (due by March 31,
2026) as specified in Part 98.

Consistent with the directive in § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., that the Commission adopt rules requiring
greenhouse gas-emitting entities to monitor and publicly report their emissions as the Commission deems
appropriate to support Colorado's greenhouse gas emission inventory efforts and tailor new reporting
requirements to fill any gaps in data reported under Part 98, the Regulation Number, Part A amendments
also include expanded greenhouse gas reporting requirements for municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills.
Under the amendments, any MSW landfill in the state active at any point during the year or inactive but
permitted to accept additional waste must report its GHG emissions. Additionally, closed MSW landfills
with a gas collection and control system (GCCS) will also be required to report their emissions.

The Commission has determined that extending these additional reporting requirements to MSW landfills
only subject to state reporting requirements is appropriate to ascertain important greenhouse gas
emissions data to support Colorado’s greenhouse gas emissions inventory. The first GHG report for these
MSW landfills will begin with reporting year 2024 (due by March 31, 2025), which allows for the reported
data to be included in the next greenhouse gas emissions inventory due in 2025.

Additional Considerations

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

To the extent these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

I.      Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
        requirements;

In order to improve the nationwide inventory of GHG emissions, Part 98 sets forth the federal GHG
reporting requirements for qualifying source categories in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act. The
Subparts to Part 98 establish the reporting protocols and methodologies for each source category.
Through revisions to Regulation Number, Part A, the Commission updates and builds upon established
federal reporting requirements in order to establish a more robust and accurate GHG inventory for
Colorado. Some of the amendments to Regulation Number, Part A incorporate by reference the most
recent updated version of EPA’s GHG Reporting Rule under 40 C.F.R. Part 98, including all new
reporting requirements and updates in that rule.

II.     Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
        whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

There are no control requirements associated with the Regulation Number, Part A GHG reporting rule.

III.    Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and
        situation was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;




                                                                                                           70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


The amendments to Regulation Number, Part A incorporate by reference the updated version of EPA’s
GHG Reporting Rule under 40 C.F.R. Part 98, including all new reporting requirements and updates in
that rule. Other amendments to Regulation Number, Part A include expanded reporting requirements for
municipal solid waste landfills not covered under 40 C.F.R. Part 98 to be specific to Colorado’s concern
and situation to support Colorado's greenhouse gas emission inventory efforts and fill gaps in data
reported under Part 98.

IV.     Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
        in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within
        or cross- media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to
        meet more stringent requirements later;

Part A updates reporting requirements for facilities already required to report under Part 98. The rule does
require municipal solid waste landfills that do not have to report to EPA to report to Colorado. These
facilities will follow federal reporting requirements for calculating their emissions. By leveraging existing
protocols and reporting procedures, Regulation Number, Part A minimizes inefficiencies while still
accomplishing the legislative mandate set forth in § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S.

V.      Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements;

Regulation Number 22 does not affect federal GHG reporting requirements for those sources subject to
federal reporting requirements. With respect to any sources required to report under Regulation Number
22 but not under federal requirements, there is no timing issue related to implementation of any federal
requirements.

VI.     Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
        margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

The amendments to Regulation Number, Part A do not limit or otherwise impact the accommodation of
uncertainty or future growth.

VII.    Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the
        requirements for various sources;

With respect to any sources already required to report GHG emissions under the federal reporting
requirements, Regulation Number, Part A, maintains reasonable equity in that the reporting timeline and
requirements are the same as the federal reporting rules for each source type. With respect to any
sources newly required to report GHG emissions under Regulation Number, Part A, the rule establishes
reasonable equity in that the reporting requirements utilize the same reporting requirements as the
federal reporting rules with adjustments to the requirements specific to the source types.

VIII.   Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

No, it is not anticipated there would be increased direct costs to others if a more stringent rule is not
enacted.

IX.     Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements
        that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling
        reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;




                                                                                                            71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Reporting requirements beyond those required under federal Part 98 are necessary to effectively quantify
and measure Colorado’s progress toward statewide GHG reductions and to achieve the public health,
safety and welfare goals set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I), C.R.S., dictates that the
Commission tailor new GHG reporting requirements to fill gaps in the existing federal reporting
requirements and “allow for maintaining and updating state inventories that are sufficiently
comprehensive and robust.” Even municipal solid waste landfills that do not have to report to EPA but do
have to report to Colorado will follow federal reporting requirements for calculating their emissions as
specified in the amendments to Regulation Number, Part A.

X.      Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

Demonstrated technology exists to enable compliance with the reporting requirements of Regulation
Number 22.

XI.     Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a
        potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

A sufficiently comprehensive and robust GHG inventory can enable and inform future implementation
strategies to cost-effectively reduce statewide GHG emissions to meet the legislative directive of § 25-7-
102(2)(g), C.R.S.

XII.    Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required
        standard.

§ 25-7-140, C.R.S., does not permit a no-action alternative and requires the Commission to adopt GHG
reporting regulations “to allow for maintaining and updating state inventories that are sufficiently
comprehensive and robust.” To the extent an alternative rule could address the required standard, the
Commission has determined the reporting requirements are appropriate to establish statewide progress
towards the GHG emission reduction goals mandated in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. and appropriately satisfy the
directives set forth in § 25-7-140, C.R.S.

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)   These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by interested parties.

(II)     Though much of the adopted rules are administrative in nature, to the extent they require
emission reduction, evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Evidence in the record supports the finding that
the rule enables the Commission to establish sufficient inventories of GHGs as required by § 25-7-140,
C.R.S.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules will bring about reductions in risks to
human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.



_________________________________________________________________________




                                                                                                            72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-26
Air Quality Control Commission


Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 07/15/2020.
Rules Part A III.B, IV.C.1, V.A, Part B I.B.40-41, I.D.1.a, I.D.1.a.(ii), Part D II eff. 10/15/2021.
Rules Part B II, Part D III eff. 12/15/2021.
Rules Part B III, IV, Part D IV eff. 01/30/2022.
Rules Part B II.B.19, II.B.25, Part D V eff. 09/14/2022.
Rules Parts C-E, Part E VI eff. 01/14/2023.
Rules Part B II-IV removed, Part E III-V removed, Part E VII eff. 06/14/2023.
Rules Part C I.B.6, I.C.3.a, I.C.5.a, I.D.2.a.(ii), I.D.3, Part E VIII eff. 09/15/2024.
Rules Part A III.A.7, IV.A.2-IV.A.4, Part E IX eff. 12/15/2024.




                                                                                                             73
