CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 9

    OPEN BURNING, PRESCRIBED FIRE, AND PERMITTING

    5 CCR 1001-11
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    I.        Scope

    This regulation applies to all open burning activity throughout the state.

    II.       Definitions

    The following definitions apply for the purposes of this Regulation Number 9.

    A.        Agricultural Open Burning

              The open burning of cover vegetation for the purpose of preparing the soil for crop production,
              weed control, maintenance of water conveyance structures related to agricultural operations, and
              other agricultural cultivation purposes.

    B.        Air Curtain Destructor (ACD)

              An open burning device that operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open
              chamber or pit in which combustion occurs. Devices of this type can be constructed above or
              below ground and with or without refractory walls and floor. (Air Curtain devices are not
              conventional combustion devices with enclosed fireboxes and controlled air technology such as
              mass burn, modular and fluidized bed combustors.) Also referred to as air curtain burners and air
              curtain incinerators.

    C.        Authorized Local Agency

              A local air pollution control authority to which the Division has delegated authority to issue general
              open burning permits and/or prescribed fire permits.

    D.        Broadcast Burn

              A broadcast burn is the controlled application of fire to wildland fuels in their natural or modified
              state over a predetermined area. Broadcast burns do not include the burning of wildland fuels that
              have been concentrated in piles by manual or mechanical methods.

    E.        Class I Area and Mandatory Federal Class I Area

              A class I area is an area listed in Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section V.A.




                                                                                                                  1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


F.    Clean Lumber

      Wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried
      wood products. Clean lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-
      stained, or pressure-treated by compounds such as, but not limited to, chromium copper
      arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote. Clean lumber that is dry may only be burned with an
      ACD.

G.    Fuel Treatment

      Manipulation, including combustion, or removal of wildland fuels to reduce the likelihood of
      ignition and/or to lessen potential damage and resistance to control of wildfire.

H.    General Open Burn

      A planned fire below the prescribed fire de minimis emissions and smoke threshold pursuant to
      Appendix A.

I.    Land Manager

      Any federal, state, local or private person or entity that administers, directs, oversees or controls
      the use of public or private land, including the application of fire to the land.

J.    Monitoring

      Monitoring includes all methods to observe and record smoke from prescribed fire, including
      tracking of smoke through visual observation.

K.    Natural Wood

      Natural wood is wood which was grown as a tree or shrub and which has not been treated.
      Treated wood may include, but is not limited to: dimensional shaping, kiln drying, chemical drying,
      painting, pressure treating, or any other modification to the wood beyond cutting.

L.    Open Burning

      Burning of rubbish, wastepaper, natural wood, vegetative material or any other flammable
      material on any open premises, or on any public street, alley, or other land adjacent to such
      premises.

M.    Pile Burning

      Burning of vegetative material that has been concentrated by manual or mechanical methods and
      separated into piles.

N.    Planned Ignition Fire

      A prescribed fire ignited by a specific man-made action intended for the purpose of using the fire
      for grassland or forest management in which the emissions and smoke levels have the potential
      to exceed the de minimis threshold pursuant to Appendix A.

O.    Planning Document

      A document that summarizes the use of prescribed fire as a grassland or forest management tool
      and the associated discharge or release of air pollution.




                                                                                                              2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


P.    Prescribed Fire

      Fire that is intentionally used for grassland or forest management, including vegetative, habitat or
      fuel management, regardless of whether the fire is ignited by natural or human means.
      Prescribed fire does not include open burning in the course of agricultural operations and does
      not include open burning for the purpose of maintaining water conveyance structures.

Q.    Private Household Trash

      Private household trash consists of paper and cardboard. Private household trash does not
      include food waste, plastic, coated or treated wood, tires and/or rubber, appliances, aerosol/paint
      cans, insulation or any other non-paper or non-cardboard items.

R.    Prescribed Fire Plan, Wildland Fire Use Plan or Burn Plan

      A plan that establishes parameters or conditions for conducting a prescribed fire.

S.    Significant User of Prescribed Fire

      A federal, state or local agency or significant management unit thereof or person that, within any
      given calendar year:

      1.      Collectively manages or owns more than 10,000 acres of grassland and/or forest land
              within the state of Colorado; and

      2.      Plans to use prescribed fire to broadcast burn and/or pile burn, where the prescribed fires
              planned for a calendar year will generate more than ten tons of PM10. See Appendix B of
              this regulation for information to estimate PM10 emissions from prescribed fires.

              The adoption of a fire management plan by a local or county unit of government pursuant
              to Section 30-11-124, C.R.S., does not constitute management for purposes of this
              regulation unless the county or local unit of government owns or manages more than ten
              thousand acres (10,000) and is a significant user of prescribed fire.

T.    Smoke Management

      Use of techniques to reduce smoke emissions, dilute smoke, identification and reduction of the
      impact of smoke on smoke-sensitive areas, monitoring and evaluation of smoke impacts from
      individual and collective burns and coordination among land managers for these purposes.

U.    Smoke Sensitive Areas or Receptors

      Class I areas and other locations of scenic and/or important vistas, especially during periods of
      significant public use, urban and rural population centers, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, ,
      recreational areas, and other locations that may be sensitive to smoke impacts for health, and/or
      aesthetic reasons.

V.    Suppression Action or Activities

      Any activity in which the land manager or responsible fire agency personnel take appropriate fire
      management actions intended to actively confine, contain or control a fire. Suppression action
      may include the use of natural fire barriers such as cliffs, rocks, or rivers as part of a suppression
      strategy.




                                                                                                           3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


W.     Unplanned Ignition Fire

       A prescribed fire ignited by natural phenomena or by military munitions. Unplanned ignition fires
       include wildland fires used for resource benefits and wildland fires ignited by military munitions.

X.     Wildfire

       Any fire that is not intended for use for grassland or forest management, regardless of whether
       the fire is ignited by natural or human means.

Y.     Wildlands

       An area where development is generally limited to roads, railroads, power lines and widely
       scattered structures. The land is not cultivated (i.e., the soil is disturbed less frequently than once
       in ten years), is not fallow, and is not in the United States Department of Agriculture Conservation
       Reserve Program. The land may be neglected altogether or managed for such purposes as wood
       or forage production, wildlife, recreation, wetlands or protective plant cover.

Z.     Wildland Fuels

       Combustible vegetative materials located on wildlands that can be consumed by fire, including
       naturally occurring live and dead vegetation, such as grass, leaves, ground litter, plants, shrubs,
       and trees, as well as excessive buildups of these materials resulting from resource management
       and other land use activities, as well as from natural plant growth and succession.

AA.    Wood Waste

       Untreated wood and untreated wood products, including tree stumps (chipped only), trees, tree
       limbs (whole or chipped), bark, sawdust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings.

BB.    Yard Waste

       Conifer needles, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs, are resulting from
       maintenance of yards or other private or public lands.

III.   Open Burning Permit Requirements

A.     No person shall conduct any open burning activity not exempted from this regulation without first
       obtaining an open burning permit from the Division or from an authorized local agency. No person
       shall burn or allow the burning of rubbish, wastepaper, natural wood, vegetative material, or any
       other flammable material on any open premises, or on any public street, alley, or other land
       adjacent to such premises without first obtaining an open burning permit from the Division or
       authorized local agency.

B.     The following activities are exempt from the requirement to obtain an open burning permit:

       1.         Noncommercial burning of private household trash in particulate matter (PM10)
                  attainment areas unless local ordinances or rules prohibit such burning.

       2.         Fires used for noncommercial cooking of food for human consumption or recreational
                  purposes;

       3.         Fires used for instructional or training purposes, except instructional or training wildland
                  pile or broadcast fires larger than the de minimis thresholds of a low-smoke impact burn
                  pursuant to Appendix A of Regulation Number 9;




                                                                                                                 4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


              a.      Training or instructional fires must comply with all applicable federal, state and
                      local laws, including the demolition notification requirements in Regulation
                      Number 8, Part B, Section III.E.1 for intentional structural fires.

      4.      Safety flares used to signal danger to the public;

      5.      Agricultural open burning

              The open burning of animal parts or carcasses is not included in this exemption. Except
              that, if the State Agricultural Commission declares a public health emergency or a
              contagious or infectious disease outbreak that imperils the livestock of the state that
              requires the burning of diseased animal carcasses on weekends or holidays, the owner
              or operator may conduct open burning of the diseased carcasses after providing
              telephone notice to the Division and the relevant local health department office by leaving
              a voicemail message. All necessary safeguards shall be utilized during such non-
              permitted open burning to minimize any public health or welfare impacts. In addition, the
              owner or operator shall take steps to ensure that all surrounding and potentially impacted
              residents, businesses, schools, and churches are notified prior to beginning the open
              burn; and

      6.      Noncommercial burning of trash in the unincorporated areas of counties of less than
              25,000 population according to the latest federal census provided such open burning is
              subject to regulations of the Board of County Commissioners for such county adopted by
              resolution and such regulations include, among other things, permit provisions and
              prohibit any such burning that would result in the exceedance of any National Ambient Air
              Quality Standards applicable to that portion of the atmosphere to which the general public
              has access.

C.    Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as relieving any person conducting open burning
      from meeting the requirements of any applicable federal, state or local requirements concerning
      disposal of waste materials.

IV.   General Open Burning Permit

A.    General Open Burning Permit Applications

      1.      Any person seeking authority for open burning or to conduct prescribed fires below the de
              minimis emissions and smoke threshold pursuant to Appendix A to this regulation may
              apply for and obtain a general open burning permit subject to the conditions set forth in
              this section. Significant users of prescribed fire may apply for and obtain a general open
              burning permit if they also satisfy the requirements of Section VII of this regulation.

      2.      Persons seeking a general open burning permit must submit to the Division, or the
              authorized local agency, an application on a Division-approved form. The application
              must demonstrate that the open burn can and will be conducted in a manner that
              minimizes the emissions from the burn and the impacts of the smoke on the health and
              welfare of the public. For prescribed fires under the de minimis threshold, the application
              must demonstrate the potential for smoke impacts is low as determined by the Division.

B.    Rules Specific to General Open Burning Permits

      1.      Burning in barrels is prohibited; burning may only be conducted in open burn piles;

      2.      The maximum acreage for a broadcast burn is 10 acres or less of grass and 5 acres or
              less of other vegetation;




                                                                                                            5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


      3.     Only natural wood, leaves, dry prairie grass, slash and weeds may be burned, unless
             approved by the Division or an authorized local agency as specified in the relevant
             permit;

      4.     Prohibited items include, but are not limited to, clean lumber, pallets, tree stumps, tires,
             chemicals, plastic, construction debris, and furniture;

      5.     All burns must have fire suppression ready at all times.

C.    Open Burning Permit Criteria

      1.     The Division or authorized local agency shall consider the following factors in determining
             whether, and upon what conditions, to issue a general open burning permit;

             a.      The location and proximity of the proposed burning to any building or other
                     structure;

             b.      Meteorological conditions on the day or days of such the proposed burning; and

             c.      Compliance by the applicant for the permit with applicable fire protection and
                     safety requirements of the local authority;

             d.      Whether there is any practical alternative method for the disposal of the material
                     to be burned;

             e.      The potential contribution of the proposed burning to air pollution in the area;
                     whether the burning will be conducted using best smoke management
                     techniques so as to minimize emissions and the impacts from the smoke on the
                     health and welfare of the public; and

             f.      The smoke impact potential for prescribed fires pursuant to Appendix A of this
                     regulation.

      2.     Methods to minimize emissions and smoke impacts may include, but are not limited to:

             a.      The use of permitted air curtain destructors pursuant to Section IV.C.4 of this
                     regulation;

             b.      The use of clean auxiliary fuel;

             c.      Drying the material prior to ignition; and

             d.      Separation for alternative disposal of materials that produce higher levels of
                     emissions and smoke during the combustion process.

      3.     Any device defined as an incinerator under the Common Provisions is not subject to the
             permitting requirements under open burning.

      4.     The Division shall consider the following in determining whether, and upon what
             conditions, to issue an air curtain destructor (ACD) Permit.

             a.      Device shall burn only yard waste, wood waste, clean lumber, or any mixture
                     thereof generated as a result of projects to reduce the risk of wildfire;




                                                                                                            6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                           5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


             b.    Whether there is any practical alternative disposal method for the proposed
                   burning;

             c.    Whether the applicant will conduct any particular burn in accordance with permit
                   conditions in the general open burning permit application pursuant to Section
                   IV.C. of this regulation;

             d.    ACD permit conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:

                   i.      Shall demonstrate within 60 days after beginning operation the device
                           meets the following emission limits:

                           (A)     Opacity limit is 10 percent, averaged over 6 minutes, except
                                   during startup and malfunctions;

                           (B)     Opacity limit is 35 percent, averaged over 6 minutes; during
                                   startup period within first 30 minutes of operation;

                           (C)     No more than one startup period per day, not to exceed 30
                                   minutes;

                           (D)     These limits apply at all times except during malfunctions;

                           (E)     Malfunctions shall not exceed a total of one hour per day; and

                           (F)     Excess emissions during malfunctions shall be reported in
                                   accordance with Common Provisions Regulation, Section II.E.

                   ii.     Shall not be co-located with another ACD or any other facility that is
                           required to have an air quality permit or any commercial or industrial
                           facility;

                   iii.    Shall be erected and operated in accordance with the manufacturer's
                           recommendation;

                   iv.     Shall meet the following if a trench device:

                           (A)     Trench dimensions must follow manufacturer's
                                   recommendations;

                           (B)     Trenches must be maintained with a rectangular opening and
                                   vertical sidewalls;

                           (C)     Bottom of trench must be above water table and not collect
                                   groundwater seepage;

                           (D)     Trench must be protected from surface runoff by a berm or other
                                   barrier; and

                           (E)     Trench cannot be in land filled material containing any solid
                                   waste, including construction and demolition debris.

                   v.      Shall not exceed the manufacturer's recommended throughput or 20 tons
                           per hour, whichever is less;




                                                                                                      7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


                      vi.      Shall be operated during daylight hours and not to exceed 13 hours per
                               day;

                      vii.     Shall emit less than 100 tons of any criteria pollutant per calendar year;

                      viii.    Shall ensure the fire is extinguished prior to departure from the project
                               site or a fire watch patrol will remain behind to ensure there is no risk of
                               escape or nighttime smoke production. An extinguished fire shall
                               produce no visible smoke;

                      ix.      Shall be setback from occupied structure on other property, and from
                               perimeter of restricted public access shall be:

                               (A)      Minimum 300 ft., for any location where an ACD is operated 14
                                        days or more per year; or

                               (B)      Minimum 150 ft., for any location where an ACD is operated for
                                        less than 14 days per year.

                      x.       Shall meet Division's reporting and record keeping requirements; and

                      xi.      Shall notify the public in smoke-sensitive areas regarding the location,
                               expected duration and projected smoke impacts from the operation.

D.    General Open Burning Permit Conditions

      General open burning permits will include, but not be limited to, the following conditions, as
      appropriate:

      1.      Air pollution emergencies and alerts

              General open burning permits are not valid during periods of publicly announced air
              pollution emergencies or alerts in the area of the proposed burn. Open burning during
              such periods may be conducted only with direct written permission from the authority that
              granted the permit.

      2.      Smoke management

              In order to minimize emissions and smoke impacts, each permittee shall use the best
              smoke management techniques appropriate to the proposed burn. The permit may allow
              the use of auxiliary fuels as reasonably necessary to induce proper ignition.

      3.      To the degree practical, all burning shall be conducted during periods conducive to
              smoke dispersal.

      4.      For burns of piled material, all piles shall be reasonably dry and free of dirt.

      5.      Wind speed

              The authority granting the permit may impose conditions on wind speed at the time of the
              burn to minimize smoke impacts on smoke-sensitive areas.




                                                                                                              8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


      6.      Wind direction

              The authority granting the permit may impose conditions on wind direction at the time of
              the burn to minimize smoke impacts on smoke-sensitive areas.

      7.      Burn supervision

              Open burns must be supervised by a responsible person who must have available the
              means to suppress the burn if the fire does not comply with the terms and conditions of
              the permit. Precautions shall be taken to ensure that the burning is restricted to the items
              and location identified in the permit.

      8.      Inspection

              All open burning operations shall be subject to inspection by the Division and/or the local
              agency. The permittee shall maintain at the burn site the original or a copy of the permit
              that shall be made available without unreasonable delay to the inspector.

      9.      The permit shall state that the permit is for compliance with state air pollution control
              requirements only and is not a permit to violate any existing local laws, rules, regulations,
              or ordinances regarding fire, zoning, or building. The permittee will notify the appropriate
              local agencies as required by local regulations and/or ordinances. Permittees also shall
              ensure that their actions comply with all procedural and substantive requirements
              contained in state and local air pollution control regulations.

      10.     The permit is valid only for the date or period specified in the permit.

      11.     The Division or local agency may include in the permit other conditions necessary to
              protect public health and welfare from emissions and smoke impacts.

      12.     Revocation of permit

              If at any time the Division or the local agency granting the permit determines that the
              permittee has not complied with any term or condition of the permit, the permit is subject
              to partial or complete suspension or revocation or imposition of additional conditions. All
              burning activity subject to the permit shall be terminated immediately upon notice of
              suspension or revocation. In addition to suspension or revocation of the permit, the
              Division or local agency may take any other enforcement action authorized under state or
              local law.

V.    Planned Ignition Fire Permits

A.    No person shall initiate a planned ignition fire without first obtaining a prescribed fire permit from
      the Division or authorized local agency unless the potential for smoke impacts are low pursuant to
      the factors in Appendix A to this regulation. Persons seeking authority to conduct prescribed fires
      with a low potential for smoke impacts pursuant to Appendix A shall apply for a general open
      burning permit. Significant users of prescribed fire shall apply for and may obtain a planned
      ignition fire permit if they also satisfy the requirements of Section VII of this regulation.

B.    Any person seeking authority to conduct a prescribed fire for which the emissions and smoke
      levels have the potential to exceed the de minimis threshold of a low smoke impact pursuant to
      Appendix A to this regulation shall apply for and may obtain a planned ignition fire permit on the
      conditions set forth in this Section V.




                                                                                                           9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


C.    Persons seeking a planned ignition fire permit shall submit to the Division or authorized local
      agency an application on a form approved by the Division for each separate burn. The application
      must demonstrate that the planned ignition fire can and will be conducted in a manner that
      minimizes the emissions from the burn and the impacts of the smoke on visibility and on the
      health and welfare of the public.

D.    The Division or authorized local agency shall consider the following factors in determining
      whether, and upon what conditions, to issue a planned ignition fire permit:

      1.      Whether all conditions required for general open burning permit applications pursuant to
              Section IV of this regulation has been met;

      2.      Whether the applicant evaluated the use of non-burning fuel treatments in place of the
              proposed burn;

      3.      The location of the proposed burn and smoke-sensitive areas and class I areas that
              might be impacted by the smoke and emissions from the burn;

      4.      The meteorological conditions under which the applicant proposes to conduct the burn
              and the measures that the applicant will take to ensure that the burn will be conducted
              only during those identified meteorological conditions, including coordination with
              appropriate sources of meteorological information on the day preceding ignition;

      5.      The smoke risk rating for the proposed burn;

      6.      The smoke mitigation techniques proposed;

      7.      Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the applicant will protect scenic and/or
              important vistas and visibility in class I areas, will minimize the impacts of emissions and
              smoke on the public, and will minimize the potential for a violation of any ambient air
              quality standards.

      8.      Whether the applicant will conduct the burn in accordance with a smoke management
              plan or narrative that requires:

              a.      That best smoke management methods will be used to minimize or eliminate
                      smoke impacts at smoke-sensitive receptors;

              b.      That the burn will be scheduled outside times of significant visitor use in smoke-
                      sensitive receptor areas that may be impacted by smoke and emissions from the
                      fire;

              c.      A monitoring plan to allow appropriate evaluation of smoke impacts at smoke-
                      sensitive receptors;

              d.      That smoke management contingency measures will be taken if unacceptable
                      smoke impacts occur at smoke-sensitive receptors; and

              e.      That measures will be taken to notify the public in smoke-sensitive areas at least
                      twenty-four hours in advance of the planned ignition of the fire regarding the
                      location, expected duration and projected smoke impacts from the fire.

      9.      Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed burn will conform to all
              requirements of the state implementation plan; and




                                                                                                         10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


      10.     Whether the actual burn activity that occurs will be reported to the Division or authorized
              local agency on forms approved by the Division.

E.    Planned Ignition Fire Permit Conditions

      Planned ignition fire permits shall include, but not be limited to, the following conditions, as
      appropriate:

      1.      All conditions required for issuance of a general open burning permit pursuant to Section
              IV of this regulation and all conditions necessary to meet the requirements of this Section
              V.

      2.      All permit conditions necessary to ensure that the burn will be conducted so as to
              minimize the impacts of the fire on visibility and on public health and welfare.

      3.      The Division or authorized local agency may allow the applicant to conduct a test fire to
              evaluate dispersal conditions.

F.    Public Comment

      1.      The Division will evaluate fires proposed in permit applications to determine whether the
              fire will pose a high smoke risk. The evaluation will include consideration of the size of
              the fire area, the type and density of fuel, whether or not the fire is a pile burn, expected
              duration, and the proximity of the fire to smoke sensitive receptors, such as communities
              and class I areas.

      2.      If the Division determines that the fire poses a high smoke risk, the Division will provide
              appropriate notice to the public, such as by making the information available through the
              internet and by email, and will issue a draft permit for public comment. The notice will
              include information about location of the fire, expected burn dates, expected duration,
              potential emissions, potential air quality and visibility impacts at smoke sensitive
              receptors and the opportunity for public comment. The procedures in the Commission's
              Procedural Rules apply to any draft permit subject to the public comment provisions of
              this paragraph. If the Division receives public comment, it will consider those comments
              in determining whether to issue a permit and what conditions to impose upon the
              permittee and within thirty days of the close of the comment period or within thirty days
              following the close of any public comment hearing, whichever is later, shall either grant or
              deny the permit.

      3.      Draft permits for high smoke risk burns that have been subject to the public notice
              provisions of paragraph V.F.2 and for which a permit has been issued, but which have
              not been completed within the period for which the permit is valid are not subject to the
              public comment provisions of paragraph V.F.2. This exception to the public comment
              requirements applies only: for the geographical unit for which a permit that has been
              subject to the public comment provisions was issued; if less than ten percent of the area
              originally permitted has been burned; and for a maximum of five years from the date of
              issuance of the original permit. The Division may amend the permit, based on a case-by-
              case analysis, to accommodate minor changes in the permit area without triggering the
              public comment provisions of paragraph V.F.2.




                                                                                                          11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


VI.   Unplanned Ignition Fire Permits

A.    Any person may apply for an unplanned ignition fire permit. A permit allows the use of fire for
      grassland or forestland management although the applicant did not plan the specific time and
      location of the ignition. Wildfires do not require a permit if the land manager undertakes
      appropriate suppression activities. Significant users of prescribed fire may apply for and obtain an
      unplanned ignition fire permit if they also satisfy the requirements of Section VII of this regulation.

B.    Applications for unplanned ignition fire permits shall be submitted to the Division on forms
      approved by the Division for each area for which a permit is sought. The application submitted by
      any person shall include a plan and map depicting the area proposed for the permit. The Division
      may grant unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits for a period of up to five years provided that
      the information contained in the application remains valid. The Division may amend the permit,
      based on a case-by-case analysis, to accommodate minor changes in the permit area.

C.    The Division shall consider the following factors in determining whether to grant an unplanned
      ignition fire permit:

      1.      Whether the applicant evaluated the use of non-burning fuel treatments in place of
              allowing unplanned ignition fires to continue burning;

      2.      The location of the proposed burns and smoke-sensitive areas and class I areas that
              might be impacted by the smoke and emissions from the burns;

      3.      The smoke risk rating for proposed burns;

      4.      The sources of meteorological information that the applicant will use to evaluate potential
              visibility and smoke and emission impacts from each fire;

      5.      The meteorological conditions under which the applicant proposes to allow unplanned
              ignition fires to continue burning without suppression efforts and the suppression
              measures that the applicant will take if weather at the time of the burn does not meet
              those identified meteorological conditions;

      6.      Whether the application demonstrates that the Division will be notified by telephone or by
              another Division-approved method as soon as possible, but no later than two hours after
              the start of the next working day, and daily thereafter, of the occurrence of an unplanned
              ignition fire greater than five acres in size that the applicant intends to use for grassland
              or forest land management;

      7.      Whether the application demonstrates that the applicant will evaluate the fire conditions
              daily to determine whether the fire meets the terms of the permit, including an evaluation
              based on appropriate information to ensure that ambient air quality standards are not
              being violated nor visibility goals exceeded;

      8.      Whether the applicant will conduct the burn in accordance with a smoke management
              plan or narrative that requires:

              a.       A monitoring plan, including visual observation, to allow appropriate evaluation of
                       smoke impacts at smoke-sensitive receptors;

              b.       That suppression activities will be taken if unacceptable smoke impacts occur at
                       smoke-sensitive receptors;




                                                                                                          12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


               c.       That measures will be taken to notify the public, within twenty-four hours of
                        discovery of the unplanned ignition, that the applicant intends to use the fire for
                        grassland or forest land management and of the location and expected smoke
                        impacts from the fire; and

       9.      Whether the actual burn activity that occurs will be reported to the Division on forms
               approved by the Division.

D.     Unplanned Ignition Fire Permit Conditions

       Each unplanned ignition fire permit shall contain, but not be limited to, the following conditions, as
       appropriate:

       1.      All permit conditions necessary to ensure that the burn will be conducted so as to
               minimize the impacts of the fire on visibility and on public health and welfare and all
               conditions necessary to meet the requirements of this Section VI;

       2.      The applicant must promptly initiate suppression action if the fire fails to comply with the
               permit terms or other activities to ensure that the fire remains within the terms of the
               permit;

       3.      The applicant must evaluate the fire with appropriate resources to determine whether the
               fire remains within the permit terms. Appropriate evaluations may include daily monitoring
               and appropriate modeling to determine whether the fire will minimize the potential for a
               violation of any ambient air quality standard or otherwise cause unacceptable impacts to
               human health or welfare, visibility or the environment.

E.     Public Comment

       1.      The Division will evaluate fires proposed in permit applications to determine whether the
               fire will pose a high smoke risk. The evaluation will include consideration of size of the
               fire area, the type and density of fuel, and the proximity of the fire to smoke sensitive
               receptors, such as communities and class I areas.

       2.      If the Division determines that the fire poses a high smoke risk, the Division will provide
               appropriate notice to the public, such as by making the information available through the
               internet and by email, and will issue a draft permit for public comment. The notice will
               include information about location of the fire, expected range of time when a burn may
               occur and potential air quality and visibility impacts at smoke sensitive receptors. The
               procedures in the Commission's Procedural Rules apply to any draft permit subject to the
               public comment provisions of this paragraph. If the Division receives public comment, it
               will consider those comments in determining whether to issue a permit and what
               conditions to impose upon the permittee and within thirty days of the close of the
               comment period or within thirty days following the close of any public comment hearing
               shall either grant or deny the permit.

VII.   Additional Requirements for Significant Users of Prescribed Fire

A.     Applicability

       This Section VII applies to activities throughout the state of all significant users of prescribed fire,
       as defined in Section II.N of this regulation, not specifically exempted by this regulation. The
       Commission may exempt from the requirements of this Section VII any significant user of
       prescribed fire upon finding that specific activities of the user will have an insignificant impact on
       visibility and air quality.




                                                                                                              13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


B.    Planning Documents.

      1.     Significant users of prescribed fire as a grassland or forest management tool shall submit
             plan’s addressing the use and role of prescribed fire and the air quality impacts resulting
             there from.

      2.     Planning documents shall:

             a.      Specify the area to which they apply, which should be relevant to as large an
                     organizational unit of land as is administratively reasonable;

             b.      Specify the time period to which they apply;

             c.      Be relevant to vegetative, habitat, and/or fuel management of grassland and/or
                     forest land; and

             d.      Explain the decision process and criteria considered or applied to show:

                     i.      How the significant user of prescribed fire identifies fuel treatment
                             alternatives to achieve the fuel, habitat, and/or vegetative land
                             management goals;

                     ii.     How the significant user of prescribed fire selects among fuel treatment
                             alternatives;

             e.      Include a discussion of the alternatives to prescribed fire considered and a
                     discussion of how prescribed fire, if selected, minimizes the risk of wildfire; and

             f.      Demonstrate, for land selected for fuel treatment, how the significant user of
                     prescribed fire considered the state standard set forth in Section VII.C and how
                     the user will achieve compliance with that standard.

      3.     Planning documents may summarize the elements of other larger and more general
             documents.

      4.     Addition of land subject to planning document review

             a.      Significant users of prescribed fire that acquire ownership or jurisdiction over
                     lands after a planning document is submitted shall identify the new land areas to
                     the Division and describe how the new lands will be managed in relation to the
                     requirements of this Section VII.

             b.      New lands that will be managed in the same manner as current lands in the
                     organizational unit described in the planning document will be subject to the
                     same restrictions on permit issuance and conditions as lands already included
                     within the planning document. New lands that will be managed differently than
                     lands already included within the planning document must be addressed in a
                     separate or subsequent planning document submitted to the Commission.




                                                                                                           14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


      5.      Change in Ownership

              a.      If a change in majority ownership or agency jurisdiction over lands occur that are
                      subject to this Section VII. and that have an approved planning document, the
                      new owner(s) or authorized agency representative shall, in writing to the Division,
                      identify the new owner(s) or agency and describe whether the new owner(s) or
                      agency will manage the lands as per the approved planning document in relation
                      to the requirements of this Section VII.

              b.      If the land will be managed in the same manner as under the previous owner(s)
                      or management agency as described in the approved planning document, written
                      notice to the Division is sufficient. If the land will not be managed per the
                      approved planning document, as determined by the new owner/manager or the
                      Division, the new owner or agency manager must address the requirements of
                      this Section VII in a separate or subsequent planning document submitted to the
                      Commission.

C.    Compliance with the State Standard

      All prescribed fire activities of significant users of prescribed fire in grassland and forest land
      management, including activities directly conducted by or on behalf of such users on their lands,
      shall conform to the state standard to minimize emissions using all available, practicable methods
      that are technologically feasible and economically reasonable in order to minimize the impact or
      reduce the potential for such impact on both the attainment and maintenance of national ambient
      air quality standards and achievement of federal and state visibility goals.

D.    Planning Document Review Process

      1.      Significant users of prescribed fire shall submit to the Commission planning documents
              for each area in which the user intends to use prescribed fire for grassland or forest land
              management.

      2.      The Division shall review the planning documents submitted to the Commission and shall
              present its comments and recommendations to the Commission.

      3.      The Commission shall hold a public hearing to review each planning document. The
              Commission shall hold the hearing and complete its review of the planning document
              within forty-five calendar days of receipt of the document unless the significant user of
              prescribed fire agrees to a longer review period. Only one hearing shall be held for each
              planning document during the time it is considered applicable unless an additional
              hearing is requested by the significant user of prescribed fire for an updated or amended
              planning document.

      4.      Following the hearing and consideration of the comments and recommendations of the
              Division and any other information received relative to the planning document, the
              Commission shall comment and make recommendations to the significant user regarding
              any changes to the planning document relating to the discharge or release of air
              pollutants that the Commission finds necessary to comply with the state standard
              identified in Section VII.C.




                                                                                                       15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


E.      Open Burning Permits for Significant Users of Prescribed Fire

        1.      The Division shall not issue any type of open burning permit to a significant user of
                prescribed fire or entities acting on its behalf after July 1, 2002, unless a planning
                document for the area to be burned has been submitted to the Commission for review,
                public hearing, and comment in accordance with Section VII.D.

        2.      The Division shall not issue a permit for open burning to a significant user of prescribed
                fire or entities acting on its behalf after July 1, 2002, unless the permit is consistent with
                the comments and recommendations made by the Commission concerning the user's
                planning document pursuant to Section VII.D.

                a.      Permit conditions imposed pursuant to this subsection may be excluded from the
                        permit if a federal land manager asserts that the condition is specifically
                        prohibited by federal statute and the Division determines that the assertion is
                        correct.

                b.      The Division shall report all such exclusions to the Commission, the Governor
                        and the Director of the Legislative Council within 30 days after the Division grants
                        the exclusion.

        3.      The Division may grant a permit regardless of the prohibition of this subsection if it
                determines that issuance of the permit is necessary to protect public health and safety.

        4.      For the purposes of this Subsection VII.E, a permit for open burning includes permits for
                general open burning, planned ignition fires and unplanned ignition fires and related
                suppression activities, but does not include wildfire or suppression activities associated
                with wildfire.

        5.      The Division shall not issue a prescribed fire permit to a significant user of prescribed fire
                for areas with outdated planning documents. For the purposes of this subsection,
                planning documents shall be considered outdated upon expiration of the time period for
                which the document is applicable as stated in the document, but in no event longer than
                10 years after submission of the planning document to the Commission.

VIII.   Fees for Open Burning and Prescribed Fire

A.      Fees for General Open Burning Permittees

        The Division shall charge no fees under this regulation to general open burning permit applicants
        or permit holders.

B.      Planning Document Evaluation Fees for Significant Users of Prescribed Fire

        1.      Every significant user of prescribed fire submitting a planning document to the
                Commission as required in Section VII of this regulation shall pay a fee for the direct and
                indirect cost of evaluating such documents.

        2.      If the Division requires more than thirty hours to evaluate the planning documents, the fee
                paid by the significant user of prescribed fire shall not exceed $3,000, unless the Division
                has informed the significant user that the billing may exceed $3,000 and has provided the
                significant user of prescribed fire with an estimate of what the actual charges may be
                prior to commencing the work.




                                                                                                             16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


      3.     The planning document review fee shall be calculated at the rate stated in C.R.S. Section
             25-7-114.7(2)(a)(III).

      4.     The Division shall prepare and send a bill at least annually to each significant user of
             prescribed fire if the Division has spent one or more hours reviewing planning documents
             from the significant user of prescribed fire. The bill will specify the number of hours spent
             and the total fee amount. All fees assessed must be received within 30 days of the date
             of receipt of the written bill. All fees collected under this regulation shall be made payable
             to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

C.    Prescribed Fire Fees

      1.     The Division shall charge no flat fee to an applicant for a planned ignition fire permit who
             applies to an authorized local agency for that permit. Permitting activity and actual
             burning activity for such permits shall not be counted into SMP scores pursuant to this
             regulation’s Appendix C, “Distribution of Cost” section.

      2.     Except as provided for in VIII.C.1. every permittee pursuant to Section V and VI of this
             regulation shall pay fees as set forth in the following paragraphs to cover the cost of the
             smoke management program.

      3.     Fees shall be charged to recover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the Division to
             operate and administer the smoke management program. Such costs include, but are not
             limited to: process permit applications; issue permits; compile emission inventory and
             monitoring information; prepare generally applicable regulations or guidance; model,
             analyze, and make demonstrations; conduct a compliance assistance and enforcement
             program; track wildfire activity as needed; operate the fee program; and review plans.

      4.     The Division shall prepare and send a bill at least annually to each permittee specifying
             each fee type and the total fee amount for the previous calendar year. All fees assessed
             must be paid within 30 days of the date of receipt of the written bill. All fees collected
             under this regulation shall be made payable to the Colorado Department of Public Health
             and Environment.

             a.      Every permit applicant shall pay annual fees regardless of:

                     i.       Whether a permit is issued, , suspended, withdrawn, or revoked; and

                     ii.      Whether actual burning activity occurred.

      5.     The fee will be calculated in accordance with the Program Cost and Distribution
             Methodology contained in Appendix C of this regulation.




                                                                                                         17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission



IX.     Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

A.      Adopted January 17, 2002

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5 and implements parts of Sections 25-7-
106(7) and (8), 25-7-114.7 and 25-7-123, C.R.S.

Basis

These rule revisions implement the provisions of Senate Bill 01-214 and relocate, update and reorganize
existing provisions of Regulation Number 1 relating to open burning into Regulation Number 9. Regulation
Number 9 deals solely with open burning activities. This new regulation contains permitting, monitoring,
reporting and fee provisions, as well as requirements particular to significant users of prescribed fire.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S.,
provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control
regulations to control burning activities. Sections 25-7-106(7) and (8), 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(III) and 25-7-123,
C.R.S., set forth specific requirements relating to activities by significant users of prescribed fire, including
open burning activities by federal land managers. The Commission's action is taken pursuant to
procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

Open Burning

The focus of SB 01-214 is on open burning activities by significant users of prescribed fire. Addressing
open burning issues is necessary in order to address emissions from natural and prescribed fires. The
Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission identified these fires as having enough episodic impact on
visibility at class I areas to overwhelm progress made through other emission control measures. The
Commission views reduction of visibility impairment from fires as an important component in achieving
federal and state visibility goals. This regulation should ensure that users of prescribed fire consider air
pollution impacts in making determinations whether, and under what conditions, to use fire for grassland
or forest management.

Permitting

The regulation continues the existing prohibition on open burning absent a permit from the Division or a
local agency. The exemptions from this requirement also remain largely the same. In particular,
agricultural open burning activity does not require a permit.

The regulation specifies factors that the Division must consider in deciding whether, and under what
conditions, to issue a burning permit. These factors differ depending on the type of permit applicable to
the proposed activity.

General open burning permits are the basic permits for most burning activities. General permits require
that an applicant use best smoke management techniques to reduce or eliminate smoke impacts on the
health and welfare of the public. Although the regulation includes a partial listing of methods to minimize
fire emissions and smoke impacts, the Commission intends that the Division will exercise its discretion to
achieve the goals of this regulation without imposing unreasonable conditions. The Division to local
counties may delegate general open burning.




                                                                                                              18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


The next category of fire addressed by this regulation is planned ignition fires, which are a subset of
prescribed fires for grassland and forestland management. The Commission decided to establish
emissions and smoke de minimus threshold below which a permit applicant must only obtain a general
open burning permit. For fires that will exceed that threshold, applicants intending to initiate a fire must
obtain a permit for a planned ignition fire. Permits for this type of fire must address additional concerns
beyond those applicable to general open burning activities. The Commission listed factors for Division
consideration in determining whether, and under what conditions, to issue a permit. This list is not
exclusive and the Division may incorporate in permits additional conditions if it finds them necessary to
minimize the impacts of fire on visibility and on public health and welfare. These factors focus on
identifying and minimizing impacts to smoke-sensitive receptors. In addition, planned ignition permit
conditions should ensure that the permittee would take appropriate action to ensure that the fire remains
within the terms of the permit or is managed so as to return it within those terms, or that the permittee will
suppress the fire if compliance with permit terms cannot otherwise be achieved.

Unplanned ignition fire permits offer persons a mechanism to use fire for grassland or forest management
even though the precise time and location of a particular prescribed fire cannot be anticipated. These
permits generally will apply to larger parcels of land, in some portion of which unplanned ignition may
occur. The purpose of this permit type is to determine before ignition the conditions under which the fire
may be used for resource benefit. As with planned ignition fires, permit conditions should ensure that the
permittee will take appropriate action to ensure that the fire remains within the terms of the permit or is
managed so as to return it within those terms, or that the permittee will suppress the fire if compliance
with permit terms cannot otherwise be achieved.

This regulation focuses on fires that a person intends to use for a beneficial purpose, such as grassland
or forest management. The Commission distinguished between those fires and wildfires. Wildfires are
beyond the scope of this regulation and no permitting requirements apply to a land manager within whose
jurisdiction a wildfire occurs.

The Commission also concluded that a public comment opportunity should be available regarding fires
with a high smoke risk. The Commission intends that a high smoke risk rating be equivalent to a rating of
41 or greater from the draft Smoke Risk Rating Worksheet prepared by the Division in conjunction with
some users of prescribed fire and attached to this Statement of Basis and Purpose as Attachment A. The
Commission recognizes that the Division and users of prescribed fire may find it appropriate to revise the
smoke risk rating methodology in the future. If this is done, the Commission intends that what constitutes
a high smoke risk burn will consider at least the same factors as in Attachment A, and the point at which a
fire becomes a high smoke risk should be equivalent to a rating of 41 on Attachment A.

The Division will determine which fires have a high smoke risk through consideration of the factors
reflected in Attachment A. If, after considering these factors, the Division concludes that the fire has a
high smoke risk, it will allow the public thirty days in which to submit comments regarding whether a
permit should be issued and what conditions are appropriate for inclusion in the permit. For planned
ignition prescribed fires, the notice will include information about location of the fire, expected burn dates,
expected duration of the fire, potential emissions, and potential air quality and visibility impacts at smoke
sensitive receptors. The Commission intends that the Division either add appropriate conditions or
combine permits to prevent circumvention of the public comment requirement, should a permit applicant
submit separate applications that may have the effect of dividing burns that are more appropriately
considered together. This comment opportunity is subject to the Commission's Procedural Rules and
includes the rights to a public comment hearing provided in those Rules. The comment opportunity does
not include a right to an adjudicatory hearing to appeal issuance of a permit, as only the permit applicant
may request such a hearing. Persons would still have recourse to seek judicial review of permits pursuant
to the Administrative Procedures Act.




                                                                                                            19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Significant users of prescribed fire

Senate Bill 01-214 imposes on significant users of prescribed fire additional requirements to ensure that
that those users consider air quality impacts in making decisions about when, and under what conditions,
they will use fire for grassland or forest management. Senate Bill 01-214 defined a significant user of
prescribed fire as a person or agency that collectively manages or owns more than 10,000 acres of land
and that use prescribed fire. The Commission enlarged on the part of this definition dealing with use of
prescribed fire by establishing a minimum activity level based on PM10 emissions during a calendar year.
The Commission concludes that users of prescribed fire at levels below this threshold do not have
significant enough an impact on visibility and air quality to justify their inclusion in this part of the smoke
management program. This provision will focus the regulatory requirements and the resources of the
Division and others on the prescribed fires with the greatest potential impact on visibility and human
health and welfare. The Commission did not establish a de minimus threshold for other open burns, as
even small fires intended to dispose of trash, rubbish and similar materials may have disproportionate
impacts on local air quality.

The regulation imposes additional duties on significant users of prescribed fire, consistent with specific
requirements in SB 01-214. Section 25-7-106(8)(b), C.R.S., requires that significant users submit
planning documents to the Commission for comment and recommendations. This section also anticipates
a hearing on the plans to allow public input. This public hearing requirement is similar to public hearing
options applicable to major stationary source permitting. Public input on regulatory compliance and
permits for major sources is important to public confidence in air pollution control efforts, particularly for
long-term planning documents.

The Commission will hold public hearings to review the planning documents and may make comments
and recommendations regarding the plans. Open burning permits for general, planned and unplanned
ignition fires can only be issued to significant users of prescribed fire if the permit is consistent with the
comments and recommendations of the Commission. The Commission intends that, wherever possible,
the Division will issue a permit with appropriate conditions in order to meet this requirement, rather than
denying the permit altogether. This approach recognizes the value of prescribed fire in grassland and
forestland management, but ensures that the air quality goals of SB 01-214 and this regulation are
adequately protected.

The Commission defined planning documents and tailored the applicable regulatory requirements to
focus submittals and Commission review on the process used by a significant user of prescribed fire,
rather than on the results of that process in a specific instance. The Commission does not intend to
challenge land use decisions made by the land manager. The purpose of the Commission comments and
recommendations will be to ensure that the land manager adequately considers air quality impacts when
making decisions whether, and under what conditions, to use prescribed fire. The Commission planning
document review will focus on how a significant user of prescribed fire will meet the state air quality
protection standard expressed in Section 25-7-106(7)(e), C.R.S.

Planning documents should summarize the decision process by which the land manager identifies and
selects among alternative treatment methods for fuel reduction. The documents should provide a specific
description relevant to accomplishment of the state air quality goal expressed in Section 25-7-106(7)(e),
C.R.S. This requirement will focus the land manager decision-making process on the goals of Senate Bill
01-214.

The Commission recognizes that planning documents will vary in their level of detail and sophistication in
describing decision mechanisms used by land managers, particularly during the initial set of Commission
reviews. Commission comments and recommendations may extend to beneficial changes in planning
documents as well as improvements in the land manager planning process related to consideration of the
state air quality goal.




                                                                                                             20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific permit conditions may be excluded from a permit if a federal land manager asserts that a federal
statute specifically prohibits the compliance with the condition. In adopting this regulation, the
Commission made no evaluation whether any particular federal statute or permit condition may justify
exclusion of a permit condition. Nevertheless, Section 118 of the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
Section7418, subjects federal agencies engaging in activities resulting, or which may result, in discharge
of air pollutants to state requirements on control and abatement of air pollution “in the same manner, and
to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity.” This waiver of federal sovereign immunity allows
states to subject federal agencies to any substantive, procedural, permitting, fee or any other
requirement. The Colorado General Assembly enacted Section25-7-106(7), C.R.S., pursuant to
Section118 and directed that this subsection be construed to exercise the full extent of the state's
authority regarding pollution from federal facilities. The Commission intends these revisions to comport
with Section118 and to exercise the state's authority to its full extent. The Division should consider this
intent in deciding whether a federal statute specifically prohibits imposition of a particular permit condition.

The rule also establishes a means for dealing with outdated plans or documents. The Commission chose
to view a plan as being outdated upon expiration of the period for which the plan itself states it is
applicable, up to ten years. The Commission may make comments or recommendations in the review
process that urge a shorter applicable period than anticipated in the planning document. Any such
comments will recognize applicable constraints on preparation of updated documents, such as the
provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act.

The regulation establishes a means for dealing with lands acquired by a significant user of prescribed fire
after the Commission reviews an initial or later version of a planning document. The Commission
concluded that requiring changes and further review of planning documents whenever a significant user
acquires land would unduly increase the burdens of the review process on the Commission, the Division
and the land managers. In general, the Commission anticipates addressing planning documents for these
lands at the next regular review, so long as the acquired lands will be managed in largely the same way
as those already addressed by the Commission. Where there will be a substantial difference in
management of the acquired lands, the Commission concluded that the land manager must submit
planning documents to address the anticipated management.

Fees and Monitoring

Senate Bill 01-214 directed the Commission to include within its smoke management program provisions
for fees necessary to pay for administration of the program. Since the General Assembly granted the
direct authority to develop a fee program for the smoke management program, the Commission is not
required to utilize the fee mechanism applicable to traditional stationary sources. The Commission chose
to apportion the cost of administering the program among users of prescribed fire rather than relying on
traditional emissions fees. In part, this conclusion was due to the unique characteristics of this emission
source category including highly variable emissions from one year to the next. Therefore, the Commission
concluded that the traditional emission fee approach would result in substantially greater administrative
burdens for both the Division and for users of prescribed fire. The methodology adopted combines the
proportion of the total number of permits and total PM10 emissions of a particular user to determine the
appropriate fraction of the program cost payable by that user. This approach will provide an equitable
distribution of the costs of administering the common elements of the program. The Commission intends
that fees paid by stationary sources will not be used to pay any portion of the smoke management
program costs.




                                                                                                             21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


The total administrative cost of $129,646.45 at the outset is specified in an appendix to the regulation and
the Commission intends that any change to it or the distribution methodology occur only through a
properly noticed public rule-making hearing before the Commission. To that end, the cost is included in
the regulation as the regulatory “fee.” The Division cost for program administration will be recalculated
annually and reported to the Commission each August. If the total cumulative dollar difference between
the cost reflected in the regulation and the Division's annual calculation exceeds five percent, the Division
will seek a fee change through a Commission rulemaking. The “total cumulative dollar difference”
between the regulatory fee and the annual cost will be calculated considering personnel and indirect and
operating costs associated with the program, and the cumulative dollar difference from the previous year.
This calculation will be performed substantially in accordance with the Colorado Smoke Management
Program Cost and Fee Calculation Template (Attachment B). The Commission also intends that the
actual revenue collected be reported annually. If collections are consistently below projections, the
Division shall seek an appropriate fee adjustment consistent with the shortfall in revenue.

In addition, the Commission imposed a fee pursuant to Section 25-7-114.7(2)(A)(III), C.R.S., to cover the
direct and indirect costs of evaluating planning documents submitted to the Commission. In order to
reduce the administrative burden on the Division and permittees, both the evaluation fees and the
administration fee will be billed annually.

The rule revisions adopted address the procedural mechanisms for accomplishing the mandatory
requirements of Senate Bill 01-214. The general structure of the smoke management program has been
established by statute. The Commission's rule implements that legislative prescription; the revisions
adopted set a de minimus level for significant users of prescribed fire, establish a fee mechanism and
delineate the specifics of the program anticipated by the statute. The Commission concludes that these
rule revisions are adopted to implement prescriptive state statutory requirements, where the Commission
is allowed no significant policy-making options, for the purposes of Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The
Commission also concludes it has no discretion under state law to adopt alternative rules that differ
significantly from these revisions, for the purposes of Section 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S. Accordingly, the
Commission did not include in the record some of the portions of the rulemaking prerequisites addressed
in Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and did not make specific determinations regarding the factors listed in
Section 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S.

The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section 25-7-109(1)(b),
C.R.S.

B.      Adopted December 19, 2002

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and implements parts of Sections
25-7-106(7) and (8), 25-7-114.7 and 25-7-123, C.R.S.

Basis

This rule revision updates the fee provisions of Regulation Number9. Regulation Number 9 anticipates
that the Commission will review and, as necessary, change the fee charged for program administration.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S.,
provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control
regulations to control burning activities. Pursuant to Section 25-7-106(7)(a), C.R.S., the Commission
program for significant users of prescribed fire includes fees necessary to administer the program. The
Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110,5, C.R.S.




                                                                                                           22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

When it adopted Regulation Number 9 in order to implement Senate Bill 01-214, the Commission elected
to treat the program costs, as the program “fee” required by the legislation. In the regulation, the
Commission required the Division to recalculate the program cost annually and to provide a briefing to the
Commission each August. Based on the Program Cost and Distribution Methodology contained in
Appendix C, the Division calculated the initial cost for the program. The Commission included the total
administrative cost of $129,646.45 for calendar year 2002 in Appendix C to the regulation. In this
proceeding, the Commission considered and adopted a change to the projected 2003 program cost and
corrected an error in Appendix C. As a result, the “fee” in Appendix C is “$144,309.85 for calendar year
2003 and succeeding years.” The fee amount of $144,309.85 is intended to apply beginning calendar
year 2003. The Division will bill users of the fire program for activity during 2002 using the $129,646.45
amount. Users of the fire program during 2003, and thereafter if the fee is not adjusted subsequently, will
be subject to the $144,309.85 amount.

The Division calculated the projected program cost for calendar year 2003 as $144,309.85, representing
an increase of 11% over the 2002 fee. This increase largely results from a position within the program
that was hired in 2002 and worked only 2 months of that calendar year but will be filled for all of 2003.
The calculation is based on the methodology contained in Appendix C. The Commission reviewed the
calculation of the changes between the 2002 cost projection and the 2003 cost projection and concluded
that the fee amount proposed by the Division represents the program cost for calendar year 2003.

Accordingly, the Commission adopted $144,309.85 as the program cost and fee to begin in calendar year
2003.

C.      Adopted February 19, 2004

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted change the method used to distribute the fees for users of planned and
unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits utilizing the Division's Smoke Management Program.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the
authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control regulations pertaining to open
burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 99-145 and
Senate Bill 01-214 relating to open burning activities by public and private land managers and other
significant users of fire for range and forest management. The regulation included a mechanism intended
to distribute equitably the cost of the program among the users and to provide revenue certainty to the
Division. In practice, fire users subject to the program have experienced substantial uncertainty in their
budgeting process because the fee assessments are not determined until the spring following the year for
that fee.




                                                                                                        23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


The revisions adopted restructure the fee distribution system into the following components. The first is a
flat fee of $1000 per year for all unplanned ignition fire permits. Such permits are valid for up to 5 years.
The second is a flat fee for small users of planned ignition prescribed fire, which will be charged $100 for
each permit. Rather than recalculating the program cost share each year for larger users, the Division will
determine the three-year average of proportion of permits and actual PM10 emissions for the user. That
proportion will be used to divide the program cost among the large users. Although there may be some
variations in fees from year to year, they will be smaller than those occurring under the present system.
These proportions will be recalculated every three years to accommodate program participation changes
among large users.

D.      Adopted February 19, 2004

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted change the evaluation method used to distinguish between the permit
requirements for prescribed fires above and below a threshold depending on the potential for smoke
impacts from the fire.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the
authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control regulations pertaining to open
burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 99-145 and
Senate Bill 01-214 relating to open burning activities by public and private land managers and other
significant users of fire for range and forest management. Those regulations included in Appendix A, a
rating table for the Division to use to identify fires with a low enough potential for smoke impact that use of
a general open burning permit sufficed to prevent undue air quality impacts. Division experience since
that time indicates that the rating table failed to allow sufficient evaluation of the potential impacts from
specific fires. In this proceeding, the Commission substituted for the table a more flexible mechanism for
the Division to make its determinations. The Commission chose the project size, fuel type, duration and
proximity to smoke-sensitive receptors as the most important factors in these evaluations. The
Commission has provided guidelines in the Appendix regarding the application of the first 3 factors to
identify low smoke risk burns. The final factor shall be addressed in permit conditions. The Commission
has also provided that the Division may apply the factors to arrive at somewhat different thresholds as
compared to the guideline table in Appendix A as long as the Division provides evidence how the factors
are still adequately addressed to ensure the burn is indeed low or no smoke risk. The Commission
intends by this change only to simplify and improve the process for assessing smoke impact potential.
The purpose of the revisions is not to allow fire users to avoid the more substantial requirements
associated with prescribed fire permits unless the potential for smoke impacts is found to be low. The
Division is to issue guidance regarding the application of the identified factors to reflect Commission
intent.




                                                                                                            24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


E.      Adopted February 19, 2004

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted remove a requirement for an unplanned ignition permit renewal where more
than 500 acres burn within a permitted burn area during a calendar year. That requirement prompted
unnecessary renewals where the terms of the permit in general remained substantially unchanged.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the
authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control regulations pertaining to open
burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 99-145 and
Senate Bill 01-214 relating to open burning activities by public and private land managers and other
significant users of fire for range and forest management. Section VI.B of Regulation Number 9 allows the
Division to issue unplanned ignition fire permits for up to five years if no more than 500 acres burn within
the burn area during any calendar year. The expectation in adopting this provision was that large fires
would drive significant changes in the fire use plan. Experience in the interim demonstrates that even
large fires have not in most cases required significant changes in the permit. The existing regulation
created an undue burden on both permittees and the Division by requiring new applications, proposed
permits and public comment processes. This revision reduces that burden in the recognition that the
permits remain substantially similar and that the renewal did not serve a significant public interest.

F.      Adopted March 12, 2004

This statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted address the use of air curtain destructors for burning materials generated as a
result of projects conducted to reduce the risk of wildfire. Regulation 9 deals with open burning activities
and Regulation 3 contains emission notice requirements. The Common Provisions Regulation contains a
definition related to these devices.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the
authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control regulations pertaining to open
burning activities. These regulatory changes implement the provisions of the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, 25-7-101, et. seq., that prohibits anyone from operating an air pollution
source such as an air curtain destructor without first obtaining a permit.




                                                                                                          25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 99-145 and
Senate Bill 01-214 relating to open burning activities by public and private land managers and other
significant users of fire for range and forest management. Since that action, the public and both state and
federal agencies have focused on the risks associated with wildfires, particularly in the forest/urban
interface throughout Colorado. The Commission views reduction of the risks associated with wildfires and
their potential for serious public health consequences as a result of the emissions from the fires as an
important component in protecting public health and the environment. The Commission also views the
use of methods to reduce risk that also reduce air pollution emissions compared to other methods as an
additional important factor. In this rule adoption, the Commission acted to enlarge the options available to
dispose of materials generated by projects conducted to reduce the risks of wildfire. It is the intention of
the Commission that practical alternatives to burning be used when they exist.

The Commission reviewed the available emissions data and limited uses proposed for air curtain
destructors. That information demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that, with appropriate
permit conditions, the destructors can safely be used to dispose of certain materials without endangering
public health or causing or contributing to a violation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards
(NAAQS) and will reduce emissions compared to traditional pile burning.

The Division performed an air dispersion modeling analysis on December 30, 2003. The analysis is
based on the assumption that the air curtain destructors operate no more than 13 hours per day and no
more than 110 days per year at a single site. In addition, it is assumed that no more than 20 tons of fuel
will be burned per hour. At this level of operation and fuel throughput, the device would be limited to 110
days per year to meet the restriction in the proposed regulation that no more than 100 tons of any criteria
pollutant be emitted per year.

Screening level air quality analyses suggest that emissions from air curtain destructors are not expected
to cause violations of the carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide ambient air quality
standards except in situations where the air curtain destructor is operated next to a nearby source of air
pollutants that is already causing high air pollution impacts in an area that, for one reason or another, has
poor existing air quality. The analyses suggest it would be prudent to require setbacks in the regulation to
prevent public exposure to potentially elevated PM10 levels near the units. The proposed setbacks of 150
feet and 300 feet for short-term versus long-term sites are reasonable except in situations where the air
curtain destructor is located near another stationary source of fugitive PM10 emissions. Accordingly, the
rule adopted prohibits co-location of an air curtain destructor with another air curtain destructor or any
facility that is required to have an air quality permit or any commercial or industrial facility.

The rule adopted contains specific limitations to assure that the devices are operated consistently with the
Commission's expectations. The rule adopted allows disposal of wood products generated by projects
conducted to reduce the risks of wildfire. The information presented to the Commission did not
demonstrate that air curtain destructors are appropriate for disposal of other materials including clean
lumber.

G.      Adopted December 15, 2005

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and implements parts of Sections
25-7-106(7) and (8), 25-7-114.7 and 25-7-123, C.R.S.




                                                                                                          26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Basis

This rule revision corrects clerical errors in published regulations related to the Smoke Management
Program. The insertions and deletions to regulatory language in this rulemaking will bring published
regulatory language into conformance with what the Commission adopted in actions at past rulemaking
hearings.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S.,
provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control
regulations to control burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In this proceeding, the Commission considered and adopted changes to Regulation Number 9 to bring
the published versions of the regulation into conformance with what the Commission adopted during
previous rulemaking hearings that occurred on February 19, 2004 and March 12, 2004. The corrections
were needed due to clerical errors in the published versions of the rules that remained unnoticed until
July 2005.

Accordingly, the Commission adopted corrections to Regulation Number 9.

H.      Adopted December 14, 2006

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

This rule revisions adopted change the percentages used to distribute the fees for users of planned and
unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits utilizing the Division’s Smoke Management Program.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the
authority for the Commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control regulations
pertaining to open burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In January 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 01-
214 relating to open burning activities by federal land managers and other users of fire for range and
forest management. The regulation included a mechanism intended to distribute equitably the cost of the
program among the users and to provide revenue certainty to the Division.




                                                                                                          27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


The fee distribution portion of the regulation was revised in 2003 at the request of federal land
management agencies. Revisions adopted restructure the fee distribution system into the following
components. The first is a flat fee of $1000 for all unplanned ignition fire permits. The second is a flat fee
for small users of planned ignition prescribed fire, which are charged $100 for each permit. Rather than
recalculating the program cost share each year for larger users, the Division determines the three-year
average of proportion of permits and actual PM10 emissions for the user. That proportion is used to
divide the program cost among the larger users. Although there are some variations in fees from year to
year, they are much smaller than those occurring under the previous system. These proportions are to be
recalculated every three years to accommodate program participation changes among users.

The revisions adopted update the recalculations of the proportions based on recent activity information
collected by the Division of users of the smoke management program. The revisions are applicable for
fee distribution calculations for users of the program during calendar years 2006, 2007, and 2008; with
billing of users based on the adopted percents to occur in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.

I.      Adopted June 21, 2007

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Statutory Authority

The Air Quality Control Commission is authorized to adopt these revisions to Regulation Number 9 and
Regulation Number 1 pursuant to C.R.S. Sections 25-7-106(7), (8) (2001) and 25-7-123(1) (2001).

Basis and Purpose

Prescribed Fire Regulation by Counties

Current regulations provide that the Division issues permits for a prescribed fire. This revision clarifies that
the Division, as well as local agencies that have been designated agents of the Division, may issue
wildland fire permits. The revision also exempts such permits issued by delegated local agencies from
State fees. The Division retains oversight of the program should a local agency fail to administer the
program as per Regulation Number 9.

The Division is authorized to delegate open burn regulation to local agencies under C.R.S. Section 25-7-
111(2)(f). The Division may designate local agencies as agents of the state to administer powers and
duties such as open burn regulation. Limited delegations are good policy because local governments are
closest to the challenges of conducting such burning. They can work more closely and consistently with a
larger number of local landowners to ensure timely inspection of proposed projects, more effective
compliance assistance, and more effective smoke monitoring.

This revision is necessary to avoid any confusion among land managers regarding which agency issues
burn permits. Over the past thirty years, the Division has designated agencies from twelve counties as
agents of the Division for the purpose of administering general open burn permitting. However, the
general open burn program is limited to de minimus wildland fuel piles (as defined in Regulation 9
Appendix A). The pine beetle epidemic has changed the needs of all stakeholders.




                                                                                                             28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Certain Colorado counties are facing a critical need for tools to use in the management or disposal of
dead timber after forests have been devastated by the pine beetle epidemic. The spread of the epidemic
has been exponential, creating huge volumes of trees and woody debris to dispose of responsibly. The
United States Forest Service estimates that 50-60% of the mature lodge pole trees in Summit County are
dead or dying. The numbers climb to 80-90% in Grand County. Eagle County is also heavily impacted.
The risk of catastrophic wildfire has increased by these large stands of diseased or dead trees. While no
one approach will solve all the problems associated with dealing with the huge volume of trees to be
disposed of, responsible burning is one option.

Recently local county agencies and landowners in these areas have contacted the Division regarding the
burning of piles of logged trees under local permitting. The Division has been collaborating with local
counties affected by the mountain pine beetle epidemic to evaluate the prospect of delegating the
prescribed fire program to willing and able county agencies.

It now makes sense to designate local agencies to permit larger pile burns than possible under a general
open burning permit. The Division believes that in the face of the pine beetle kill challenge, if local
agencies are properly staffed and prepared to assume the responsibilities of permitting, it is appropriate
to consider developing a written delegation agreement. Thus, the Division is now working on a delegation
for the prescribed fire program to local agencies.

Training and Instructional Fires

Wildland fuel burns that have a training or instructional component but are large enough to constitute
prescribed fires will now be subject to Regulation 9 permitting requirements. Prescribed fires are burns
large enough to be over the de minimus low smoke risk threshold in Regulation 9, Appendix A. This
change will require the permittees to insure that the smoke is managed responsibly and that public health
is considered. Open burns causing de minimus smoke emissions that are used for training purposes are
still exempt from permitting requirements.

Prior to this revision, Regulations 1 and 9 exempted all training and instructional fires from permitting by
the Division. However, this exemption does not reflect the realities of wildfire suppression training. Few, if
any, burns are used exclusively for wildland fire suppression training. These burns accomplish several
objectives in addition to training, such as habitat improvement, weed control, and wildfire fuel control.
Most prescribed fires are used for training to some degree. Prior to this revision, these fires would
arguably be entitled to an exemption.

Prescribed fires are, by definition, large with significant emissions that can impact residents in the vicinity
of the fire. If the Division were to grant an exemption for every prescribed burn that involves training, few
prescribed fires would be permitted. Without a permit, the Division cannot ensure that the land manager is
implementing the controls that are necessary to protect public health and safety.

Wildland fire instructors usually consider applying for and obtaining a planned ignition fire permit from the
Division as part of the training exercise. This revision reflects that burn permits are necessary for burns
that exceed the de minimus smoke emissions threshold and the industry practice of requesting a permit.

The Division is aware of instances where structures were ignited under the training exemption yet did not
receive a Demolition Notice from the Division prior to ignition to assure they were free from asbestos. This
revision does not require permitting for structural fire fighting training, though it does include a cross
reference to Regulation Number 8, Part B, Section III.E.1. concerning the possible need for a Demolition
Notice to assure the structure is free of asbestos before the structure is burned.




                                                                                                            29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


J.      Adopted June 19, 2008

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis and Purpose

The Commission hereby establishes a process to administer planning documents for prescribed fire in the
event the ownership of the acreage in question changes. The Commission intends to ensure that new
landowners or managers are aware of the planning document that applies to their land and intend to
comply with the document.

Any new owner who qualifies as a significant user of prescribed fire and plans to use prescribed fire must
do so pursuant to an approved planning document. Significant users of prescribed fire include any public
or private entity that owns or manages 10,000 acres or more in Colorado and conducts enough wildland
prescribed fire burns such that they generate at least 10 tons of PM10 per year.

Significant users must submit a planning document that explains how decisions are made about fuel
treatment options and how the entity complies with applicable standards. The Commission reviews and
approves the planning document following a public hearing. The Division may not issue prescribed fire
permits to a significant user without an approved or valid planning document.

In the event of a change of ownership or management associated with acreage that is subject to a
planning document, the Division will seek a written commitment from the new owner or land manager to
comply with the document. The Division will no longer issue permits until a written commitment is
received regarding the existing plan or the new owner or manager has submitted a new or amended
planning document that is approved by the Commission at a public hearing.

Specific Statutory Authority

C.R.S. Section 25-7-106(7) and (8) authorizes and directs the Commission to develop a program to
minimize impacts of actions by significant users of prescribed fire, including a requirement that significant
users submit planning documents to the Commission.

K.      Adopted December 19, 2008

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted change the percentages used to distribute the fees for users of planned and
unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits utilizing the Division’s Smoke Management Program. This rule
revision also increases the cost of the smoke management program. Regulation Number 9 anticipates
that the Commission will review and, as necessary, change the fee charged for the program. Finally,
numerous format edits of Regulation Number 9 are adopted to achieve more consistency between
Commission regulations.




                                                                                                           30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S.,
provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control
regulations to control burning activities. Pursuant to Section 25-7-106(7)(a), C.R.S., the Commission
program for significant users of prescribed fire includes fees necessary to administer the overall smoke
management program. The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-
7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items
enumerated in Section 25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In January 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 01-
214 relating to open burning activities by federal land managers and other users of fire for range and
forest management. The regulation included a mechanism intended to distribute equitably the cost of the
program among the users and to provide revenue certainty to the Division.

The fee distribution portion of the regulation was revised in 2003 at the request of federal land
management agencies. Revisions adopted restructure the fee distribution system into the following
components. The first is a flat fee of $1000 for all unplanned ignition fire permits. The second is a flat fee
for small users of planned ignition prescribed fire, which are charged $100 for each permit. Rather than
recalculating the program cost share each year for larger users, the Division determines the three-year
average of proportion of permits and actual PM10 emissions for the user. That proportion is used to
divide the program cost among the larger users. Although there are some variations in fees from year to
year, they are much smaller than those occurring under the previous system. These proportions are to be
recalculated every three years to accommodate program participation changes among users.

The revisions adopted update the recalculations of the proportions based on recent activity information
collected by the Division of users of the smoke management program. The revisions are applicable for
fee distribution calculations for users of the program during calendar years 2009, 2010, and 2011; with
billing of users based on the adopted percents to occur in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.

When it adopted Regulation Number 9 in order to implement Senate Bill 01-214, the Commission elected
to treat the program costs, as the program “fee” required by the legislation. In the regulation, the
Commission required the Division to recalculate the program cost annually and to provide a briefing to the
Commission each August. Based on the Program Cost and Distribution Methodology contained in
Appendix C, the Division calculated the initial cost for the program. The Commission included the total
administrative cost of $129,646.45 for calendar year 2002 in Appendix C to the regulation. In a later
proceeding, the Commission considered and adopted a change for the projected 2003 program to
“$144,309.85 for calendar year 2003 and succeeding years.” In 2005, the Commission again adopted a
change for 2005 and succeeding years of $174,585.08.

The Division calculated the projected program cost for calendar year 2009 as $199,305.13, representing
an increase of 14% over the 2005-2008 program cost. This increase largely results from small,
accumulated increases in salaries and benefits for the Division positions supporting the SMP and a new
charge for vehicle use. The calculation is based on the methodology contained in Appendix C. The
Commission reviewed the calculation of the 2009 cost projection and concluded that the cost of the
program amount proposed by the Division represents the program cost for calendar year 2009 and
succeeding years. Accordingly, the Commission adopted $199,305.13 as the program cost and fee to
begin in calendar year 2009.

Finally, in this proceeding the Commission considered and adopted format changes and edits to bring
Regulation Number 9 into conformance with other Commission regulations. Accordingly, the Commission
adopted the changes to Regulation Number 9.




                                                                                                            31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


L.      Adopted December 15, 2011

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted change the percentages used to distribute the fees for users of planned and
unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits utilizing the division’s Smoke Management Program.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, section 25-7-106(7)(a), C.R.S., provides authority
to the Commission to develop a fee program for the Division’s Smoke Management Program. Section 25-
7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control
regulations pertaining to open burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In January 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 01-
214 relating to open burning activities by federal land managers and other users of fire for range and
forest management. The regulation included a mechanism intended to distribute equitably the cost of the
program among the users and to provide revenue certainty to the Division.

The fee distribution portion of the regulation was revised in 2003 at the request of federal land
management agencies. Revisions adopted restructure the fee distribution system into the following
components. The first is a flat fee of $1000 for all unplanned ignition fire permits. The second is a flat fee
for small users of planned ignition prescribed fire, which are charged $100 for each permit. Rather than
recalculating the program cost share each year for larger users, the Division determines the three-year
average of proportion of permits and actual PM10 emissions for the user. That proportion is used to
divide the program cost among the larger users. Although there are some variations in fees from year to
year, they are much smaller than those occurring under the previous system. These proportions are to be
recalculated every three years to accommodate program participation changes among users.

The revisions adopted update the recalculations of the proportions based on recent activity information
collected by the division of users of the smoke management program. The revisions are applicable for fee
distribution calculations for users of the program during calendar years 2012, 2013 and 2014; with billing
of users based on the adopted percents to occur in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively.

M.      February 19, 2015

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted change the percentages used to distribute the fees for users of planned and
unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits utilizing the division’s Smoke Management Program.




                                                                                                            32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, section 25-7-106(7)(a), C.R.S., provides authority
to the Commission to develop a fee program for the Division’s Smoke Management Program. Section 25-
7-109(2)(e), C.R.S., provides the authority for the Commission to adopt and modify emissions control
regulations pertaining to open burning activities.

The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

In January 2002, the Commission adopted regulations to implement the requirements of Senate Bill 01-
214 relating to open burning activities by federal land managers and other users of fire for range and
forest management. The regulation included a mechanism intended to distribute equitably the cost of the
program among the users and to provide revenue certainty to the Division.

The fee distribution portion of the regulation was revised in 2003 at the request of federal land
management agencies. Revisions adopted restructure the fee distribution system into the following
components. The first is a flat fee of $1000 for all unplanned ignition fire permits. The second is a flat fee
for small users of planned ignition prescribed fire, which are charged $100 for each permit. Rather than
recalculating the program cost share each year for larger users, the Division determines the three-year
average of proportion of permits and actual PM 10 emissions for the user. That proportion is used to divide
the program cost among the larger users. Although there are some variations in fees from year to year,
they are much smaller than those occurring under the previous system. These proportions are to be
recalculated every three years to accommodate program participation changes among users.

The revisions adopted update the recalculations of the proportions based on recent activity information
collected by the division of users of the smoke management program. The revisions are applicable for fee
distribution calculations for users of the program during calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017; with billing
of users based on the adopted percents to occur in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

N.      Adopted May 21, 2020

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act (“Act”), §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

The rule revisions added additional best smoke management techniques, clarified/added definitions,
removed language that was no longer applicable or appropriate, removed the specific Smoke
Management Program (SMP) scores that change every three years, and enlarged the timeframe
regarding notice requirements prior to a prescribed burn.




                                                                                                            33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, §§ 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S., provides authority for the Commission to adopt and
modify a program, including emissions control regulations, to control burning activities. Section 25-7-
106(7)(a), C.R.S. authorizes and directs the Commission to develop a program for significant users of
prescribed fire, which includes fees necessary to administer the overall smoke management program.
The Commission's actions were taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110
and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in
Section 25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission removed language that is no longer applicable or appropriate. Language regarding fire
safety that is not related to air pollution or smoke was removed. Fire safety responsibility pertaining to
prescribed fire is currently owned by several entities across the state, including the Colorado Division of
Fire Prevention and Control (DFPC), federal land agencies, and local fire and law enforcement
jurisdictions.

The Commission removed specific SMP scores, which change every three years, to avoid the need to
open and alter Regulation Number 9 on a frequent basis. The revisions did not remove the SMP score
calculation, which was retained within Regulation Number 9, Appendix C. The SMP scores will remain
readily available by request from customers, reviewed and discussed at the annual SMP stakeholder
meeting, and be viewable continuously on the SMP website.

The Commission removed language requiring the Simple Approach Smoke Estimation Modeling by the
permittee since it has been determined to be inaccurate and the Division has not required it since
approximately 2005-2006. The Division will continue to perform its own modeling before issuing any
permits.

The Commission expanded the time public notice may be given. Previously, Regulation Number 9 limited
the timing of public notification regarding prescribed fire to no more than five days before ignition.
Allowing at the most five days’ notice prior to ignition can, in some cases, be insufficient. Allowing the
public to take action and/or provide feedback is critical in the prescribed fire process. Therefore, the
Commission removed the restriction that permittees cannot provide notice more than five days before the
burn.

The Commission added and clarified open burning definitions and requirements which are technologically
feasible and economically reasonable and will reduce, prevent and control air pollution in Colorado, as
required by § 25-7-102, C.R.S. Furthermore, the revisions also provided greater transparency regarding
open burning best smoke management techniques.

Findings Pursuant to § 25-7-110.5(5), C.R.S.

In accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b) and after considering all of the evidence in the record, the
Commission determines:

        (I)     EPA does require states with Regional Haze State Implementation Plans, in developing
                its long-term strategy, to consider smoke management from wildland fires. This
                requirement does not limit states from developing more stringent requirements for open
                burning and prescribed fires.

        (II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily performance-based and there is flexibility
                in those requirements.




                                                                                                            34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


        (III)    Federal requirements regarding smoke management do not address the issues that are
                 of concern to Colorado and did not take into account concerns unique to Colorado.

        (IV)     The proposed revisions will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply in a
                 more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements and
                 increasing certainty.

        (V)      Any federal requirements regarding visibility have already been implemented and
                 therefore there are no timing issues that might justify changing the time frame for
                 implementation.

        (VI)     The proposed revisions will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin
                 for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth.

        (VII)    The proposed revisions maintain reasonable equity in the requirements for various
                 sources.

        (VIII)   Colorado citizens may face increased costs due to wildfires and health problems if the
                 proposal is not adopted.

        (IX)     There are no federal requirements that specifically regulate prescribed fires and open
                 burning. The proposed revisions include minimal monitoring, recordkeeping, and
                 procedural requirements that are necessary to protect Colorado’s citizens and
                 environment.

        (X)      Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed revisions since any
                 additional requirements will only clarify best smoke management techniques, which
                 permittees should already be implementing.

        (XI)     As set forth in the Economic Impact Analysis, the proposed revisions contribute to the
                 prevention of air pollution and visibility impairment in a cost-effective manner.

        (XII)    Although alternative revisions may reduce smoke emissions and visibility impairment, the
                 Commission determined that the division’s proposal was reasonable and cost-effective.

Findings Pursuant to §25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

After considering all of the information in the record, the Commission makes the determination that:

        (I)      These revisions are based on reasonably available, validated and reviewed, and sound
                 scientific methodologies demonstrating that exposure to smoke from open burning
                 creates a public health hazard and may lead to a violation of the National Ambient Air
                 Quality Standards. The Commission has considered all information submitted by
                 interested parties.

        (II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the requirements of these revisions will
                 result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution and will bring about reductions in risks
                 to human health and the environment, which justify the cost to government, the regulated
                 community and to the public to implement and comply with the rule.

        (III)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the revisions are the most cost-effective,
                 which best balances cost-effectiveness, flexibility to the regulated community and
                 maximization of air quality benefits.




                                                                                                           35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the
regulation.

O.      Adopted Feb. 15, 2024

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act (Act), § 25-7-110 and § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

The rule revision adopted the added language to Regulation Number 9's General Open Burning Permit
section (Section IV.B) to clarify that open burning permits may be issued for materials outside of natural
materials as needed on a case-by-case basis.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, Sections 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S., provides authority for the Commission to adopt
and modify a program, including emissions-control regulations, to control burning activities. The
Commission's actions were taken pursuant to procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission added language that clarified open burning permits may be issued for materials outside
of natural wood, leaves, dry prairie grass, slash and weeds when necessary, so long as best open
burning best practices are being abided by.

Further, revisions were included to correct any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors found
within the regulation.

Findings of Fact

Pursuant to § 25-7-110.5(5), C.R.S.:

In accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b) and after considering all of the evidence in the record, the
Commission determines:

(I)     EPA’s national rules do not limit states from developing stringent requirements for open burning.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily performance-based; the Commission shall have
        maximum flexibility in developing an effective air-quality control program and may promulgate
        such combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program (§
        25-7-106, C.R.S).

(III)   Federal requirements regarding open burning do not address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado and do not take into account concerns unique to Colorado.

(IV)    The revision will improve the ability of the regulated community to be able to burn items outside of
        natural materials; in some cases, this will alleviate the need for costly disposal.

(V)     There are no timing issues that might justify changing the timeframe for implementation.




                                                                                                             36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


(VI)     The revision will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin for accommodation of
         uncertainty and future growth.

(VII)    The revision maintains reasonable equity in the requirements for various sources.

(VIII)   The revision presents no economic impact to citizens or any members in the supporting business
         and industrial sectors.

(IX)     There are no federal requirements that specifically address open burning. The revision does not
         include procedural, reporting or monitoring requirements that are different from federal
         requirements.

(X)      Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revision since any additional
         requirements will only clarify best open burning techniques, which permittees should already be
         abiding by.

(XI)     The revision contributes to the further utilization of open burning permits in a cost-effective
         manner.

(XII)    The Commission determined that the division’s proposal was reasonable and cost-effective.

Pursuant to § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.:

After considering all of the information in the record, the Commission makes the determination that:

(I)      This revision is based on reasonably available, validated and reviewed, and sound scientific
         methodologies. The Commission has considered all information submitted by interested parties.

(II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the requirements of these revisions will result in a
         demonstrable reduction in air pollution and will bring about reductions in risks to human health
         and the environment, which justify the cost to government, the regulated community and to the
         public to implement and comply with the rule.

(III)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the revisions are the most cost-effective, which
         best balances cost-effectiveness, flexibility to the regulated community and maximization of air-
         quality benefits.




                                                                                                             37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission



APPENDIX A        DE MINIMIS PRESCRIBED FIRE PROJECTS

Some proposed planned ignition prescribed fire projects for grassland and forest management may emit
relatively low amounts of smoke and emissions and be below the de minimis threshold of a low potential
for smoke impacts. If so, such projects may apply for a general open burning permit. Alternatively, if a
project is above the de minimis threshold, then such projects must apply for and may obtain a planned
ignition fire permit. To determine whether a proposed planned ignition prescribed fire is above or below
the threshold for low potential smoke impacts, the Division must consider the following factors:

          1.      Size of the project;

          2.      Fuel type

          3.      Duration of the project including smoldering and potential for nighttime smoke; and

          4.      Proximity of the project to smoke sensitive areas

Projects meeting the following guidelines will be considered to have low potential for smoke impacts for
the first three factors:

De Minimis Threshold for Open Burning Permits


 Type of Project     Thresholds
 Broadcast Burn      < 10 acres of grass OR < 5 acres of other vegetation
 Pile Burn           All piles out cold before sunset, AND No more than 50 piles total in the project


The final factor, proximity of the project to smoke sensitive areas will be addressed with project permit
conditions. The Division may apply the factors and approve different De Minimis Thresholds for good
cause shown.

APPENDIX B ESTIMATING PM10 EMISSIONS FOR THE PURPOSE OF DETERMINING WHETHER
     A LANDOWNER/MANAGER IS A SIGNIFICANT USER OF PRESCRIBED FIRE

TABLE I EXAMPLE BURNS               Estimated to Potentially Produce 10 Tons of PM10 Emissions


  FUEL TYPE              SIZE OF          FUEL LOADING                FUEL CONSUMPTION          EMISSION
                         BURN             ASSUMED                     ASSUMED (%)               FACTOR
                                                                                                (pounds/ton)
  Grass                  575 acres        2 tons/acre                 87                        20
  Sagebrush              191 acres        5 tons/acre                 70                        30
  Oakbrush or            556 acres        4 tons/acre                 50                        18
  Aspen
  Pine/Conifer           23 acres         30 tons/acre                48                        60
  Pinon/Juniper          476 acres        3 tons/acre                 59                        24
  Piled Slash            144,000 ft3      38 pounds/ ft3              92                        8




                                                                                                            38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


Example Calculations:

         Example 1

         A grass burn of 575 acres that is estimated to have a fuel loading of 2 tons per acre and 98% of
         the acreage burned (black acreage) is estimated to produce:

         ([(575 acres x .98) x 2 tons/acre] x 20 pounds/ton)÷ 2000 pounds/ton=11.27 tons of PM10

         A landowner/manager completing this burn is a “significant user of prescribed fire” as defined in
         Regulation Number 9.

         Example 2

         A manager is proposing to treat 140 acres of mixed conifer in this calendar year. It is estimated
         the fuel loading is 5 tons per acre and 48% of the area is to be burned. This burn is estimated to
         produce the following particulate matter emissions:

         140 acres x 48% fuel consumption=67.2 black acres

         67.2 acres x 5 tons/acre=312 tons of fuel consumed

         (312 tons x 60 pounds PM10/ton)÷ 2000 pounds/ton=9.36 tons of PM10

         The PM10 emissions are below 10 tons. Based on this single burn, the manager is not defined as
         a “significant user of prescribed fire” in Regulation Number 9. If additional projects are to be
         completed in the same calendar year, the manager may be defined as a “significant user of
         prescribed fire” due to cumulative total PM10 emissions exceeding 10 tons.

TABLE II SOURCES OF INFORMATION/DATA USED IN TABLE I


 FUEL TYPE            REFERENCE                                           REFERENCE
                      FUEL LOADING                                        EMISSION FACTOR
 Grass                Aids to Determining Fuel Models for                 AP-42, EPA, 1996, Rocky
                      Estimating Fire Behavior, US Forest Service,        Mountain Grasslands
                      1982 and historical activity data
 Sagebrush            Average of historical activity data reported to     US Forest Service, Fire and Air
                      the Division                                        Research Station memo to the
                                                                          Division, 1990
 Oakbrush or          Average of historical activity data reported to     AP-42, EPA, 1996, Pacific SW
 Aspen                the Division                                        Chaparral
 Pine/Conifer         AP-42, EPA, 1996, Wildfires and Prescribed          AP-42, EPA, 1996, Rocky
                      Burning, Rocky Mountain. Avg.                       Mountain Underburning Pine
 Pinon/Juniper        Average of historical activity data reported to     AP-42, EPA, 1996, Pacific SW
                      the Division                                        Pinon/Juniper
 Piled Slash          Guidelines for Estimating Volume, Biomass,          AP-42, EPA, 1996, Rocky
                      and Smoke Production for Piled Slash, US            Mountain Logging Slash
                      Forest Service, 1996




                                                                                                            39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


APPENDIX C      PROGRAM COST AND DISTRIBUTION METHODOLOGY

Fees that are levied by the Department to cover the costs of the Smoke Management Program are
determined using the following methodology.

Cost of the Smoke Management Program

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act requires that the Smoke Management Program
(SMP) fees cover the cost of the program. Section 25-7-106(7)(a), C.R.S. The Air Pollution Control
Division's Fiscal Officer determined the cost of the SMP as implemented by this Regulation Number 9.
The program cost is built upon estimates of the percent of each position devoted to all aspects of the
SMP. This percentage is applied to each position's salary and benefits. Operating costs and indirect costs
are also included. The total cost of the SMP is $174,585.08 for calendar year 2008 and $199,305.13 for
calendar year 2009 and succeeding years.

Fee Use

Functions of the SMP include but are not limited to: management, administration, permitting operations,
modeling support, training of users of prescribed fire regarding air quality concerns and the SMP
program, database management and reporting, fee program administration (including database
management, invoicing, and/or customer service), regulatory development, guidance development, web
page management/maintenance, compliance assistance, enforcement, field work, tracking of, and if
necessary, involvement in wildfire monitoring, review of plans and involvement in public hearings, data
entry, meteorological forecasting, and consultation on high smoke risk burns.

Fee Calculation

The annual cost of the SMP will be the SMP fee. The Division’s cost of the SMP will be recalculated
annually and reported to the Commission each August. If the Division's annual SMP cost calculation
exceeds five percent of the SMP fee reflected in the regulation, the Division will seek a fee change
through a Commission rulemaking.

The annual SMP cost calculation must utilize the “total cumulative dollar difference” between the
regulatory fee and the annual cost. It will be calculated by first computing a total projected SMP cost
considering the projected salary and benefits for personnel associated with the program (apportioned
according to the percentage of time assigned to the program for each position), indirect costs, travel
costs, Division operating costs, Department operating costs and Department indirect costs. That sum will
be adjusted by the difference between salary and travel expenses and the previous year's projected
salary and travel costs. The Division will complete the calculation of the total cumulative dollar difference
by summing: the difference between the adjusted program cost and the previous regulatory fee; and the
total cumulative dollar difference from the previous year.

Distribution of Cost

The Division will distribute the cost of the program to permittees as follows:

1.      The fee for an unplanned ignition prescribed fire permit in effect for an area is $1000 per
        permitted area each year the permit is valid. Unplanned ignition prescribed fire permits are valid
        for up to 5 years.

2.      The fee for a planned ignition prescribed fire permit for any permittee with a 3-year block average
        SMP score (see 3 below) under 1.00% is $100 per permit.

3.      The fees for planned ignition fire permits for permittees with 3-year block average SMP score of
        1.00% or greater shall be determined as follows:




                                                                                                           40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-11
Air Quality Control Commission


        a.       To distribute the cost of planned ignition prescribed permits for larger users of the SMP,
                 each year the Division shall compute a Smoke Management Program Score (SMP
                 score). The SMP score shall be calculated by averaging the percent of total planned
                 ignition prescribed fire permits requested by that permittee in a calendar year; and the
                 percent of total PM10 emissions generated by actual planned ignition prescribed fire
                 burning activity by that entity.

        b.       Every three years the Division must compute a 3-year block average SMP score based
                 on the most recent three years SMP scores. The computed 3-year block average SMP
                 score must be applied to the next year’s billing cycle, and for the following 2 years. For
                 example, the 3-year block average SMP score for Year 1, Year 2, and Year 3 will be
                 calculated in Year 4. This 3-year block average will be applied to planned ignition
                 prescribed fire fees for activity conducted in Year 5, Year 6, and Year 7. The next
                 calculation would occur in Year 7. Any entity whose SMP score is less than 1.00% shall
                 be removed from the 3-year block average. The SMP scores for remaining users must be
                 re-scaled to 100% after small users have been removed. Upcoming 3-year block average
                 scores are scheduled for 2020, 2023, 2026, etc.

        c.       The resulting 3-year block average percent for each entity shall determine how the cost
                 of the program will be distributed. The cost of the program shall have all unplanned
                 ignition fees and small user fees subtracted from it before it is applied to the 3-year block
                 average to determine the fee for planned ignition prescribed fire users with 3-year block
                 average SMP scores at or greater than 1.00%.

_________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2007.
Rules VII.B.5, IX.J eff. 08/30/2008.
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2009.
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2012.
Rules Appendix C, IX.M eff. 03/30/2015.
Rules II, III, IV, V.B, V.D.7, V.D.8.e, VI.D, VIII, VIII.C.4.a.i, IX.N, Appendix A, Appendix C eff. 07/15/2020.
Rules IV.B.3, IX.O eff. 04/15/2024.




                                                                                                             41
