CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 27

    GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT FOR MANUFACTURING

    5 CCR 1001-31
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A              General Provisions

    PART B              GEMM 2 Facility Requirements

    PART C              Energy-Intensive Trade-Exposed Stationary Source Requirements

    PART D              Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading

    PART E              Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes § 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated by reference are
    available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies may be obtained at a reasonable
    cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver,
    Colorado 80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
    Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by reference are those
    editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any later amendments.

    PART A              General Provisions

    I.        Purpose and Applicability

    I.A.      The purpose of this regulation is to require manufacturing stationary sources to reduce
              greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to § 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., (2023).

    I.B.      This regulation applies to manufacturing stationary sources with annual direct emissions equal to
              or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number
              22, Part A. Once a manufacturing stationary source reports annual direct GHG emissions equal
              to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year, as reported pursuant to Regulation
              Number 22, Part A, or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Greenhouse Gas Reporting
              Program (Title 40, Part 98, of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)) (Part 98), on or after the
              year 2015, the requirements of Regulation Number 27 continue to apply even if the source
              reports less than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e in direct GHG emissions for any year thereafter.

    I.C.      If any section, clause, phrase, or standard contained in this regulation is for any reason held to be
              inoperative, unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity of the remaining portions thereof will not
              be affected and the Commission declares that it severally passed and adopted these provisions
              separately and apart.




                                                                                                                     1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.     Definitions

II.A.   “2015 GHG emissions” means the direct emissions reported in metric tons of CO2e by a GEMM 2
        facility to the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (40 CFR, Part 98, Subparts C through
        JJ), for calendar year 2015.

II.B.   “2030 social cost of GHGs” means for carbon dioxide, $89 per metric ton of carbon dioxide; for
        methane, $2,500 per metric ton of methane; for nitrous oxide, $33,000 per metric ton of nitrous
        oxide; and for all other greenhouse gases, the corresponding cost of CO2e.

II.C.   “Additional emissions reductions” means GHG emission reductions that exceed any GHG
        emission reductions otherwise required by law, regulation, or legally binding mandate.

II.D.   “Alternate account representative” means an individual designated pursuant to Part D, Section
        II.C. to take actions on the manufacturing stationary source’ accounts.

II.E.   “Annual emissions limitation” means the number of metric tons of CO2e an EITE stationary
        source may emit as calculated in Part C, Section III.A.1.

II.F.   “Auction” means the process of creating a market for the sale of GHG credits by taking bids from
        potential GHG credit buyers, taking offers from potential GHG credit sellers, determining which
        GHG credits buyers purchased, determining how many GHG credits will be sold and to which
        buyers, and determining the auction settlement price. The auction will not collect payment from
        winning bidders but will instead instruct buyers to which sellers they must direct payment.

II.G.   “Auction administrator” means the Division or the Division’s agent charged with administering an
        annual auction for the voluntary sale of GHG credits.

II.H.   “Auction settlement price” means the price announced by the auction administrator at the
        conclusion of each annual auction pursuant to Part D, Section IV.

II.I.   “Audit plan” means the proposed audit scope, timelines and team submitted by the EITE
        stationary source to the Division for approval pursuant to Part C.

II.J.   “Audit report” means the resulting document from the audit containing all the information and data
        required under Part C.

II.K.   “Audit scope” means the GHG emission units and the energy consumption sources included in
        the energy and emissions control audit and identified in the approved audit plan.

II.L.   “Audit team” means one or more persons performing the audit. The audit team must consist of at
        least one qualified third-party auditor. Additional capabilities and knowledge of the audit team
        must include, but are not limited to, technical expertise with specific operating and maintenance
        practices for the industry being audited; expertise in conducting GHG and energy management
        system audits; and expertise of the EITE stationary source’s domestic and international market.
        The audit team must include individual(s) with documented audit expertise in the relevant
        industrial sector.

        II.L.1.   A bachelor’s level college degree or equivalent in science, technology, business,
                  statistics, math, environmental policy, economic, or financial auditing; or evidence
                  demonstrating completion of significant and relevant work experience or other personal
                  development activities that have provided the applicant with the communication,
                  technical, and analytical skills to conduct audit; and




                                                                                                            2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        II.L.2.   Sufficient workplace experience to act as an auditor, including a minimum two years of
                  full-time experience in a professional role that involved emissions data management,
                  emissions technology, emissions inventories, environmental auditing or other technical
                  skills necessary to conduct the audit.

II.M.   “Carbon dioxide equivalent” (CO2e) means a standard used to compare the emissions from
        various greenhouse gases based upon their global warming potential (GWP). The CO2e is
        determined by multiplying the mass amount of emissions (metric tons per year), for each GHG
        constituent by that gas’s GWP, codified in 40 CFR Part 98, Subpart A, Table A-1 (as of
        December 11, 2014), and summing the resultant values to determine CO2e (metric tons per
        year).

II.N.   “Certification body” means a professional organization that has been accredited to issue lead
        auditor certifications for a specific sector or to a specific standard.

II.O.   “Co-benefits” means the additional benefits associated with the reduction of harmful air pollutants
        to local communities, including localized air quality benefits.

II.P.   “Colorado EnviroScreen” means Colorado’s interactive environmental justice mapping tool, which
        compiles 35 environmental, health, and demographic indicators to identify and visualize areas
        with higher environmental health risks, as of the effective date of the rule. The tool also shows
        places that meet the statutory definition of a disproportionately impacted community in § 24-4-
        109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (May 23, 2023).

II.Q.   “Combined heat and power unit” (also known as a “cogeneration unit”) means a unit that
        simultaneously produces both electric power and useful thermal output from the same primary
        energy source, and may include facilities where electricity is generated from waste steam or is
        generated by a stationary combustion turbine.

II.R.   “Compliance year” means any year in which a GEMM 2 facility must comply with a GEMM 2
        annual GHG emissions requirement.

II.S.   “Credit account” means an account for a manufacturing stationary source that is created by the
        Division or its agent, to which the Division and/or the manufacturing stationary source transfers
        GHG credits to meet the manufacturing stationary source’s compliance obligations.

II.T.   “Direct GHG emissions” means GHG emissions from a manufacturing stationary source that are
        reported to the State of Colorado under Regulation Number 22, Part A and/or to the EPA under
        Part 98 and measured in terms of CO2e.

II.U.   “Disproportionately impacted community” means those communities that meet the definition
        contained in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (May 23, 2023). For purposes of Regulation Number 27,
        disproportionately impacted community means any census block group identified in the
        disproportionately impacted community layer in the most recent version of Colorado
        EnviroScreen as of the date of the effective rule.

II.V.   “Energy and GHG emission control audit” (the audit) means a rigorous examination of the GHG
        emissions and energy consumption of an EITE stationary source with the goal of analyzing and
        recommending GHG BAECT and energy BMPs, and identifying opportunities for reduction in
        GHG emissions and energy consumption for the facility, conducted consistent with the
        requirements set forth in this section.




                                                                                                            3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.W.    “Energy best management practices” (energy BMPs) means the best energy efficiency practices
         available to the EITE stationary source, based on the maximum degree of energy efficiency that
         is achievable on a case-by-case basis, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic
         impacts, and is achievable for such facility through application of production process
         improvements and available equipment or process control methods, systems, and techniques,
         and includes incorporating all the key elements of strategic energy management (SEM), such that
         the facility continually improves its energy performance, reduces energy costs, and reduces GHG
         emissions associated with energy use.

II.X.    “Energy efficiency” means using less electricity or fuel to produce the same quantity of product or
         service.

II.Y.    “Energy-intensive, trade-exposed manufacturing stationary source” (EITE stationary source)
         means a source that principally engages in cement and concrete product manufacturing, NAICS
         code 3273; foundries, NAICS code 3315; iron and steel mills and ferroalloy manufacturing,
         NAICS code 3311; and/or pulp, paper, and paperboard mills, NAICS code 3221.

II.Z.    “Federal ENERGY STAR ® Program” means the EPA’s voluntary program for industrial
         manufacturers through which specific energy performance indicators are measured and
         compared across industries and to which facilities are certified if they are achieving an Energy
         Star scoring of 75 or greater.

II.AA.   “Gas distribution utility” means a public utility providing gas service to more than ninety thousand
         retail customers. Gas distribution utility does not include a municipal gas distribution utility.

II.BB.   “GEMM 2 facility” means a stationary source located in Colorado that principally engages in
         manufacturing activities and directly emits equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons per year of
         CO2e emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number 22; including any existing EITE
         stationary source that emits equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons per year of CO2e
         emissions and elects to be regulated under Part B. Manufacturing activities include the
         mechanical, physical, or chemical transformation of materials, substances, or components into
         new products. This is limited to facilities with NAICS codes beginning with 31-33.

II.CC.   “GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions” means, for stationary sources qualifying as GEMM 2
         facilities as of January 1, 2023, the higher reported direct GHG emissions from either the 2021 or
         2022 calendar year, measured in metric tons of CO2e as reported pursuant to Regulation
         Number 22, Part A., as revised to correct any previous inaccuracies or to account for capital
         investments between 2015 and 2021 that increased a GEMM 2 facility's production capacity by
         over thirty (30) percent, for which additional production, as of 2022, was not yet realized. If a
         GEMM 2 facility met the criteria for the production-based adjustment, the GEMM 2 facility’s
         baseline was revised upwards to account for seventy-five (75) percent of the GHG emissions
         increase resulting from the production capacity expansion, provided, however, that if the GEMM 2
         facility met the requirements of Part B, Section I.A.1, its GEMM 2 facility baseline was revised
         upwards to account for one-hundred (100) percent of the GHG emissions increase resulting from
         the production capacity expansion.

II.DD.   “GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement” means for each stationary source qualifying as a
         GEMM 2 facility as of January 1, 2023, the calculated CO2e emissions requirement that a GEMM
         2 facility must comply with in a calendar year as determined pursuant to Part B, Section I.A.

II.EE.   “GHG best available emission control technology” (GHG BAECT) means a GHG emission control
         technology for a GHG emission unit based on the maximum degree of GHG reductions
         achievable on a case-by-case basis, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic
         impacts, employment of which is demonstrated by compliance with the GHG BAECT and energy
         BMP intensity rate determination.




                                                                                                                4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.FF.   “GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate” means the total direct GHG emissions per unit of
         production from the emissions units within the audit scope after GHG BAECT and energy BMPs
         are operational as determined in Part C.

II.GG. “GHG credit” means a uniquely identifiable and tradable compliance instrument equal to one
       metric ton of CO2e reduced, which is generated, issued, transferable, and may be retired
       pursuant to Part D. The GHG credit must be real, additional, quantifiable, permanent, verifiable,
       and enforceable and provide additional emissions reductions beyond a facility’s compliance
       obligation.

II.HH.   “GHG crediting and tracking system” means a GHG credit accounting, tracking, and trading
         system established by the Division and/or its agent where GHG credits are issued by the Division
         or its agents to manufacturing stationary sources and midstream segment companies in the
         system, and may be transferred between regulated sources, and retired under this Regulation
         Number 27 and Regulation Number 7.

II.II.   “GHG mitigation plan” means the plan produced by a GEMM 2 facility pursuant to Part A, Section
         III.B.1.

II.JJ.   “GHG reduction plan” means the plan produced by a GEMM 2 facility under Part B, Section II.A.,
         or the plan produced by a stationary source constructed on or before the effective date of this rule
         that becomes a GEMM 2 facility after the effective date of this rule under Part B, Section I.B, as
         applicable.

II.KK.   “Greenhouse gas” (GHG) means carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O),
         hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and Nitrogen
         Trifluoride (NF3).

II.LL.   “Harmful air pollutant” as used in this section means pollutants designated by EPA as criteria air
         pollutants (carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate pollution (PM) (PM2.5 and
         PM10) and sulfur dioxide) or hazardous air pollutants. This term is not intended to articulate
         different thresholds or standards for those pollutants listed as harmful air pollutants than currently
         established under the federal Clean Air Act or the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control
         Act and their respective implementing regulations.

II.MM. “Independent third party” means an engineering or consulting firm selected by the State of
       Colorado; which is not affiliated with the stationary source, its subsidiaries, or related entities and
       has no common ownership with the stationary source. The capabilities and knowledge of the firm
       must include, but are not limited to, background, experience, and recognized abilities to perform
       the assessment activities, data analysis, and report preparation and experience working with the
       industry subject to this section.

II.NN.   “International Organization of Standardization” (ISO) means the independent, non-governmental
         international standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards
         organizations.

II.OO. “ISO 50001: Energy Management Systems – Requirements with guidance for use” (ISO 50001)
       means the internationally accepted standard which specifies the requirements for an organization
       to demonstrate that it has a sustainable energy management system in place, has completed the
       energy planning process, and has a commitment to continual improvement of its energy
       performance.

II.PP.   “Lead auditor” means an individual who has met the requirements of and is certified as a lead
         auditor through a professional certification body.




                                                                                                              5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.QQ. “Management system” means the policies, processes, and procedures used by an organization to
       ensure that it can fulfill the tasks required to achieve its GHG emissions or energy management
       objectives.

II.RR.   “Manufacturing stationary source” means an EITE stationary source or a GEMM 2 facility.

II.SS.   “Midstream segment company” means “midstream company” as defined in Regulation Number 7,
         Part B, Section VII.

II.TT.   “Municipal gas distribution utility” means a municipally owned utility that provides gas service to
         more than ninety thousand customers.

II.UU.   “Net meter” means a renewable energy resource or renewable energy storage on the EITE
         stationary source’s property which supply energy directly to the EITE stationary source’s energy
         provider in exchange for a Power Purchase Agreement where the customer receives credit for
         the energy production.

II.VV.   “Non-GHG BAECT emissions” means the GHG mass emissions from an EITE stationary source
         that are not covered by the audit.

II.WW. “North American industry classification system (NAICS) code(s)” means the six-digit code(s) that
       represents the product(s)/activity(s)/service(s) at a facility or supplier as listed in the Federal
       Register and defined in “North American Industrial Classification System Manual 2007,” available
       from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, Alexandria, VA
       22312 (as published March 13, 2023).

II.XX.   “Permanent” means the GHG emission reductions are not reversible, or, when the GHG emission
         reductions are reversible, that mechanisms are in place to replace any reversed emission
         reductions to ensure that all reductions that are awarded GHG credits endure.

II.YY.   “Plain-language” means writing that is clear, concise, well-organized, and follows other best
         practices appropriate to the subject or field and is easily understandable.

II.ZZ.   “Primary account representative” means an individual authorized by a manufacturing stationary
         source to make submissions to the Division or its agent in all matters pertaining to this Regulation
         Number 27 that legally bind the authorizing source.

II.AAA. “Process” means a specific operation at an EITE stationary source comprising a series of actions
        or steps which are carried out in a specific order to complete a particular stage in the
        manufacturing process.

II.BBB. “Product” means the quantifiable material output of an individual manufacturing process or
        manufacturing facility.

II.CCC. “Proof of certification” means an official document issued by the formal registrar or certifying body
        stating the scope of certification, the expiration date and the standards to which the stationary
        source is certified.




                                                                                                               6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.DDD. “Qualified third-party auditor” means one or more individuals who hold a valid lead auditor
        certification in greenhouse gas and/or energy management systems and have demonstrated
        capabilities to evaluate GHG reduction opportunities for large, energy-intensive, industrial
        manufacturing processes and facilities. Qualified third-party auditors must have worked as an
        auditor for at least two years, or must have worked as a project manager or lead person for not
        less than four years (two of which may be graduate level work) in: (1) the development of GHG or
        other air emission inventories, or (2) as a lead environmental data or financial auditor. The auditor
        must not be affiliated with the EITE stationary source, its subsidiaries, or related entities; there
        can be no common ownership between the EITE stationary source and the third-party auditor.
        The capabilities and knowledge of the auditor must include, but are not limited to, background,
        experience, and recognized abilities to perform the assessment activities, data analysis, and
        report preparation and experience lead auditing GHG or energy management systems for the
        industry subject to this section.

II.EEE. “RACT/BACT/LAER Clearinghouse” (RBLC) means EPA’s central database of air pollution
        technology information, including past RACT, BACT, and LAER decisions contained in New
        Source Review (NSR) permits, to promote the sharing of information among permitting agencies
        and to aid in future case-by-case determinations.

II.FFF. “Real” means that GHG emission reductions result from a demonstrable action or set of actions
        and are quantified using appropriate, accurate, and conservative methodologies.

II.GGG. “Recovered methane project owner or operator” means a owner or operator of a recovered
        methane project that is eligible to generate recovered methane credits under Regulation Number
        22, Part C.

II.HHH. “Regulated source” means a source of greenhouse gas that is subject to a rule adopted by the
        Commission under Section 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., that imposes specific and quantifiable GHG
        reduction obligations upon that source or group of sources.

II.III.   “Residential building unit” means a building or structure designed for use as a place of residency
          by a person, a family, or families. The term includes manufactured, mobile, and modular homes,
          except to the extent that any such manufactured, mobile, or modular home is intended for
          temporary occupancy or for business purposes. Each individual residence within a building will be
          counted as one Residential building unit.

II.JJJ. “Residential community” means an area where more than ten (10) residential building units are
        grouped together within a one (1) mile radius.

II.KKK. “Retail distributed generation” means a renewable energy resource or renewable energy storage
        that directly supplies building or process energy needs at a metered location, where surplus
        energy is supplied to the location’s energy provider when energy production is greater than on-
        site demand and grid energy is supplied through a customer meter to the location during times
        when on-site production is less than demand.

II.LLL. “Small gas distribution utility” means a public utility providing gas service to ninety thousand retail
        customers or fewer. Small gas distribution utility does not include a municipal gas distribution
        utility.




                                                                                                              7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.MMM.         “Social cost of GHGs” means the monetized damages associated with an incremental
       increase in GHG emissions in a given year. The social cost of GHGs must include separate
       calculations for carbon, methane, and nitrous oxide, and the social cost of any other GHGs must
       be calculated using carbon dioxide equivalent. For purposes of Regulation Number 27, the social
       cost of GHGs is established, using a two and one-half percent discount rate, by the Federal
       Interagency Working Group’s Technical Support Document: Social Cost of Carbon, Methane, and
       Nitrous Oxide, Interim Estimates under Executive Order 13990, dated February 2021.

II.NNN. “Strategic energy management” (SEM) means a management system-based, continuous
        improvement approach to energy management that seeks to improve an organization’s energy
        performance, reduce energy costs, and reduce GHG emissions associated with energy use;
        drives improvement in facility energy efficiency through equipment upgrades operations and
        maintenance improvements and behavioral changes.

II.OOO. “Technically feasible” means that the GHG reduction measure can be implemented at the facility
        within existing technological and scientific limitations.

II.PPP. “Transfer” means, as to a GHG credit, the removal of a GHG credit from one manufacturing
        stationary source’s account in the GHG crediting and tracking system and placement of that
        credit into another manufacturing stationary source’s account in the system if agreed to by both
        the transferor and transferee manufacturing stationary sources.

II.QQQ. “Verifiable” means that a reported emission reduction resulting from a GHG credit at a regulated
        source is well documented and transparent such that it lends itself to an objective review by the
        Division to verify the emission reduction is real, using monitoring of emissions reductions relative
        to the GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement or annual emissions limitation, as applicable,
        for the relevant compliance year.

III.     Noncompliance

III.A.   In the event that an EITE stationary source fails to meet its annual emissions limitation, the EITE
         stationary source will be deemed in noncompliance and must surrender or obtain and surrender
         three (3) GHG credits for every metric ton of CO2e emitted by the EITE stationary source in
         excess of the annual emissions limitation and may be subject to a civil penalty or other
         enforcement action by the Division.

III.B.   In the event that a GEMM 2 facility fails to comply with: (i) its aggregated GHG emissions
         requirement for the first compliance period (calculated by aggregating a facility’s GEMM 2 annual
         GHG emission requirements for 2024, 2025, and 2026); (ii) its aggregated GHG emissions
         requirement for the second compliance period (calculated by aggregating a facility’s GEMM 2
         annual GHG emission requirements for 2027, 2028, and 2029); or (iii) after 2029, its GEMM 2
         annual GHG emissions requirement in any compliance year, the facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG
         emissions requirement will be adjusted downwards by at least two (2) times the amount, in metric
         tons of CO2e, by which the facility exceeded its aggregated GHG emissions requirements in
         either compliance period or, after 2029, its GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement. The
         timeline required for the GEMM 2 facility to achieve the mitigation will be determined by the
         Division but must be no later than three (3) years after the period or year of non-compliance.

         III.B.1. If a GEMM 2 facility fails to comply with its aggregated GHG emissions requirements in
                  either compliance period or, after 2029, its GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement
                  in any compliance year, the facility must submit a GHG mitigation plan for Division review
                  and approval by no later than December 31 of the year following the period or year of
                  non-compliance, documenting how it will comply with the additional required GHG
                  reductions. The GHG mitigation plan must include:




                                                                                                               8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                  III.B.1.a.         The amount by which the GEMM 2 facility exceeded the facility’s
                            aggregated GHG emissions requirement in metric tons of CO2e for the previous
                            period or GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement in metric tons of CO2e
                            for the previous year.

                  III.B.1.b.       The adjusted GHG emissions requirement for the mitigation period, as
                            determined by the Division pursuant to Section III.B.

                  III.B.1.c.        The onsite GHG reduction measure(s) being implemented to achieve the
                            additional reduction required pursuant to Section III.B, for the mitigation period.

III.C.   If the GEMM 2 facility does not achieve the applicable GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions
         requirement or mitigation reduction amount, the facility must take the necessary corrective
         actions to achieve the required reductions pursuant to this Section III, in addition to paying any
         civil penalties that may be assessed. The GEMM 2 facility may be deemed out of compliance for
         the entirety of the year and subject to daily civil penalties.

III.D.   In the event that a GEMM 2 facility fails to implement the emission reduction measures as
         documented in the Division-approved GHG reduction plan pursuant to Part B, Section II, the
         GEMM 2 facility may be deemed out of compliance and may be subject to enforcement action
         and daily civil penalties.

III.E.   If a GEMM 2 facility does not submit timely, complete, and accurate documentation to the
         Division pursuant to any section of Regulation Number 27, the facility may be subject to
         enforcement action including assessment of daily civil penalties.

III.F.   Nothing in this Section III limits the enforcement powers of the Division under the Act to remedy
         noncompliance with Regulation Number 27, including but not limited to the Division’s ability to
         seek additional penalties, and compel actual reductions at any manufacturing source in
         noncompliance.

PART B            GEMM 2 Facility Requirements

I.       Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Requirements for GEMM 2 Facilities

I.A.     Stationary sources qualifying as GEMM 2 facilities as of January 1, 2023 must comply with the
         GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirements set forth in Part B, Section I.A., as applicable. An
         EITE stationary source that emitted equal to or greater than 25,000 mt of CO2e emissions as of
         January 1, 2023, but was not subject to Part C of this Regulation Number 27 as of January 1,
         2023, is subject to the GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirements set forth in Part B, Section
         I.A., as applicable, unless the source notifies the Division within 6 months of the effective date
         that it will comply with Part C. Compliance will be demonstrated pursuant to Part B, Section IV.

         I.A.1.   The owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility for which the higher of the GEMM 2 facility's
                  2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number 22, Part A, reflect a
                  reduction in direct GHG emissions of at least twenty (20) percent, as compared to the
                  facility's 2015 GHG emissions, must comply with the following requirements:

                  I.A.1.a. The owner or operator of the GEMM 2 facility must comply with the GEMM 2
                           annual GHG emissions requirements in Table 1.




                                                                                                              9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                                 Table 1



                    Year                   GEMM 2 Annual GHG Emissions Requirement

                 2024 – 2029                    GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

               2030 and beyond        1% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

               I.A.1.b. The owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility subject to Section I.A.1.a., above,
                        may, in the alternative to complying with Section I.A.1.a., comply with the
                        following requirements.

                       I.A.1.b.(i)         For calendar years 2024 and 2025, comply with a GEMM 2
                                 annual GHG emissions requirement equal to seventy-five (75) percent of
                                 the facility’s 2015 reported emissions;

                       I.A.1.b.(ii)     Beginning in 2026, comply with a GEMM 2 annual GHG
                                emissions requirement equal to the facility’s GEMM 2 facility GHG
                                baseline emissions; and

                       I.A.1.b.(iii)    Beginning in 2030 and continuing in perpetuity, comply with a
                                GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for 2030, as established
                                under Section I.A.1.a, above, subject to any additional reductions
                                required under Section I.A.5.; provided, however, that

                       I.A.1.b.(iv)        If the GEMM 2 facility subject to this Section I.A.1.b. cannot meet
                                 a GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement equal to its GEMM 2
                                 facility GHG baseline emissions by 2026 consistent with Section
                                 I.A.1.b.(ii), it must either:

                               I.A.1.b.(iv)(A) Beginning in 2028 and continuing in perpetuity, comply
                                         with its GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for 2030,
                                         as established under Section I.A.1.b.(iii), subject to an additional
                                         one (1) percent reduction; or

                               I.A.1.b.(iv)(B) Beginning in 2030 and continuing in perpetuity, comply
                                         with its GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for 2030,
                                         as established under Section I.A.1.b.(iii), subject to an additional
                                         two (2) percent reduction.

      I.A.2.   The owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility for which the higher of the GEMM 2 facility's
               2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number 22, Part A reflect a
               reduction in direct GHG emissions of at least ten (10) percent but less than twenty (20)
               percent, as compared to the facility’s 2015 GHG emissions, must comply with the GEMM
               2 annual GHG emissions requirements in Table 2.




                                                                                                           10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                                Table 2


                    Year                   GEMM 2 Annual GHG Emissions Requirement

                 2024 – 2029        1.25% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

               2030 and beyond        7% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

      I.A.3.   The owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility for which the higher of the GEMM 2 facility's
               2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number 22, Part A reflect a
               reduction in direct CO2e emissions greater than zero (0) percent but less than ten (10)
               percent, as compared to its 2015 GHG emissions, must comply with the GEMM 2 annual
               GHG emissions requirements in Table 3.

                                                Table 3



                    Year                   GEMM 2 Annual GHG Emissions Requirement

                 2024 – 2029        1.50% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

               2030 and beyond        8% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

      I.A.4.   The owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility for which the higher of the GEMM 2 facility's
               2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation Number 22, Part A are equal
               to or greater than its 2015 GHG emissions, must comply with the GEMM 2 annual GHG
               emissions requirements in Table 4.

                                                Table 4



                    Year                   GEMM 2 Annual GHG Emissions Requirement

                 2024 – 2029        1.75% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

               2030 and beyond      12.5% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

      I.A.5.   Beginning in 2030, and for each year thereafter, in addition to those limits in Part B,
               Sections I.A.1. through I.A.4., GEMM 2 facilities will also be required to incorporate the
               reductions in Table 5 into the GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement in 2030 and
               beyond, based on the GEMM 2 facility’s percent contribution towards the cumulative
               GEMM 2 facilities’ higher of 2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported pursuant to Regulation
               Number 22, Part A.




                                                                                                       11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                                  Table 5



                GEMM 2 Facility       GEMM 2 Annual GHG Emissions Requirement in 2030 and
                   Percent                                beyond
                 Contribution

                 30% or greater         6% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

                At least 20% but
                 less than 30%          5% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

                At least 10% but
                 less than 20%          4% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

                At least 5% but
                less than 10%           3% less than the GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions

       I.A.6.   If the owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility certifies through a Division-approved form
                that it will voluntarily comply with the facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions
                requirement for 2030 beginning no later than 2025 and each year thereafter through
                limiting onsite direct GHG emissions, the facility is not subject to the requirements in Part
                B, Section II. Upon submission of this form, the facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions
                requirement for 2030 is established as the facility’s new, enforceable GEMM 2 annual
                GHG emissions requirement for calendar year 2025 and each year thereafter. To qualify,
                the owner or operator of the GEMM 2 facility must provide the Division-approved form,
                certified by a responsible party, to the Division no later than May 31, 2025.

I.B.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section I.B, any stationary source constructed on or before
       the effective date of this rule that becomes a GEMM 2 facility after the effective date of this rule
       must comply with the following requirements. An EITE stationary source that emitted equal to or
       greater than 25,000 mt of CO2e emissions as of January 1, 2023, but was not subject to Part C of
       this Regulation Number 27 as of January 1, 2023, may not elect to comply with this Regulation
       Number 27 through the requirements of Part B, Section I.B.

       I.B.1.   By December 31st of the year in which the facility first reports direct GHG emissions
                equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e, the owner or operator of the facility
                must conduct a GHG emission control audit to assess the implementation of GHG best
                available emission control technology (GHG BAECT), propose a five (5) year GHG
                reduction plan for the facility and submit the audit report and GHG reduction plan to the
                Division. An EITE stationary source’s GHG reduction plan for purposes of this Section
                I.B. must propose to achieve greater than a five (5) percent reduction in direct GHG
                emissions from the EITE stationary source’s current direct GHG emissions, compared to
                the most recent year of operation. The GHG BAECT analysis must be performed
                according to the requirements set out in Part C, Sections I.C.1.a.

       I.B.2.   Audits must be conducted by a qualified third-party auditor and meet or exceed nationally
                or internationally accepted energy and GHG accounting and management audit
                standards or protocols.

       I.B.3.   The Division will post the facility’s audit report and GHG reduction plan proposal to the
                Division’s website within fifteen (15) days of receipt and provide a 30-day public comment
                period.




                                                                                                           12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        I.B.4.   The Division will review the audit report, GHG reduction plan and public comments
                 received and issue a final five (5) year GHG reduction plan for the facility within one
                 hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of the report and plan. The Division will post the
                 facility’s approved GHG reduction plan on the Division’s website.

II.     Greenhouse Gas Reduction Plans

II.A.   No later than September 30, 2025, except as otherwise provided in this Regulation Number 27,
        the owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility subject to Section I.A. must develop a GHG reduction
        plan and submit the certified GHG reduction plan on a Division-approved form, along with the
        independent third-party evaluation and findings of the plan, to the Division. The owner or operator
        of a glass container manufacturing facility must submit the certified GHG reduction plan, as
        described in this Section II. as expeditiously as practicable but no later than June 1, 2027. The
        GHG reduction plan must include the following information:

        II.A.1. Basic emissions information

                 II.A.1.a. The GEMM 2 facility’s GHG baseline emissions.

                 II.A.1.b. The difference in GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2e reported for the year
                           2024, compared to its GEMM 2 facility GHG baseline emissions.

                 II.A.1.c. The percent of GHG emission reduction required for the GEMM 2 facility to
                           comply with its 2030 GHG emissions requirement pursuant to Section I.A. based
                           on the GEMM 2 facility’s GHG baseline emissions, as applicable.

                 I.A.1.d. The difference in metric tons of CO2e between the GEMM 2 facility’s GEMM 2
                          annual GHG emissions requirement for 2030 and its GEMM 2 annual GHG
                          emissions requirement for 2024, as applicable. This should be calculated as:

                         GEMM 2 annual GHG Emissions Requirement for 2030 - GEMM 2 annual GHG
                         emissions requirement for 2024

        II.A.2. GHG reduction measures, including portfolio approach

                 II.A.2.a. The list of all GHG reduction measures that result in greater than de minimis
                           GHG reductions and that are technically feasible and commercially available or
                           other measures that facilities propose for implementation at the GEMM 2 facility.
                           The following information is required for each measure listed.

                         II.A.2.a.(i)     The quantity of metric tons of CO2e reduced per year from each
                                   measure;

                         II.A.2.a.(ii)     The net reduction in associated harmful air pollution in metric
                                   tons per year from each measure;

                         II.A.2.a.(iii)    The cost in USD per metric ton of CO2e reduced for each
                                   reduction measure for all measures;

                         II.A.2.a.(iv)    The timeframe for implementation for each measure; and

                         II.A.2.a.(v)      If a facility seeks to utilize Section II.A.3.b., below, then
                                   information as to those GHG reduction measures that are alternate
                                   options or redundant or incompatible with each other.




                                                                                                             13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        II.A.3. The portfolio of measures up to the 2030 social cost of GHGs that the facility is required
                to propose to implement by 2030 towards achievement of the facility’s 2030 GHG
                emissions requirement as well as any measure(s) above the 2030 social cost of GHGs,
                including the cost information and estimated reduction of harmful air pollution of those
                measure(s), that the facility is voluntarily proposing to implement by 2030 to ensure it
                achieves its 2030 GEMM 2 GHG emissions requirement.

                II.A.3.a. If the facility proposes to implement a portfolio measures from its GHG reduction
                          plan that is estimated to yield total GHG reductions within five (5) percent of
                          another portfolio of measures, the facility must propose to implement the portfolio
                          of measures that provides the greater reduction in harmful air pollution, provided
                          that the cost of the portfolio of measures is at or below the 2030 social cost of
                          GHGs.

                II.A.3.b. A facility is not required to select and implement measures that are alternate
                          options or redundant or incompatible with each other.

        II.A.4. If, as of the GEMM 2 facility’s submittal deadline for its GHG reduction plan in this
                Section II.A., a facility is already in the process of constructing or implementing, including
                post-construction project implementation or ramp up, a GHG reduction measure or
                portfolio of measures that are projected to achieve the entirety of the facility’s 2030
                GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement, the facility’s list of GHG reduction
                measures in Section II.A.2. need only include such measure(s), and the facility must only
                propose to implement such measure(s) to comply with Section II.A.3. A facility that
                qualifies for this section is not subject to Section II.A.3.a.

        II.A.5. If the GEMM 2 facility proposes to implement all technically feasible portfolio of measures
                at or below the 2030 social cost of GHGs, but the proposed measures do not satisfy the
                2030 GEMM 2 GHG emissions requirement, the GHG reduction plan may indicate that
                the facility plans to use the GHG crediting and tracking system for compliance, provided
                that the GEMM 2 facility complies with Section II.A.6. if it is located within one (1) mile of
                a disproportionately impacted community and within fifteen (15) miles of a residential
                community.

        II.A.6. If (1) a GEMM 2 facility plans to use the GHG crediting and tracking system for
                compliance and (2) any portion of the GEMM 2 facility’s property line is within one (1)
                mile of a disproportionately impacted community and within fifteen (15) miles of a
                residential community as of the effective date of this rule, the following requirements
                apply:

                II.A.6.a. The GHG reduction plan must identify additional GHG reduction measures not
                          yet selected for implementation under Part B, Sections II.A.3. that cost up to fifty
                          (50) percent above the 2030 social cost of GHGs. If any such measures exist,
                          the GHG reduction plan must quantify the largest amount of harmful air pollution
                          reduction achievable by implementing one or a combination of such measures, in
                          each case up to the facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for
                          2030.

                II.A.6.b. The GHG reduction plan must propose to implement measure(s) to reduce
                          harmful air pollution in an amount equal to the amount achievable identified in
                          Section II.A.6.a.

II.B.   The owner or operator of the GEMM 2 facility must ensure one of its responsible agents certifies
        that the contents of the GHG reduction plan documentation is complete and accurate.




                                                                                                            14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


II.C.    The owner or operator of the GEMM 2 facility must ensure an independent third party conducts a
         technical and regulatory review of its GHG reduction plan. The selected firm will review the GHG
         reduction plan to determine the accuracy and completeness of the plan including, without
         limitation, cost projections, assumptions and data sources, GHG emission and harmful air
         pollution impacts, and compliance with this Part B, Section II.

II.D.    The GEMM 2 facility must cooperate with the independent third party to assure accuracy and
         completeness of the GHG reduction plan, and compliance with this Part B, Section II. Upon
         completion of the review, the plan must be certified by the independent third party as adhering to
         the requirements of this Part B, Section II, prior to submission of the plan to the Division.

II.E.    The GHG reduction plan must include a plain-language summary of the proposed GHG reduction
         plan for the GEMM 2 facility.

         II.E.1. Each plain language summary shall be provided in the top two languages spoken by the
                 community surrounding the GEMM 2 facility. The translations must be prepared by a
                 certified translator.

         II.E.2. The plain language summary shall include the list of measures analyzed in the plan for
                 the GEMM 2 facility, the correlating GHG emission and harmful air pollutant impacts of
                 the measures, and justification for why the proposed measures were identified.

II.F.    Within fifteen (15) days of receipt, the Division will post the certified GHG reduction plan and the
         independent third party review of the GHG reduction plan on the Division’s website.

II.G.    The Division will hold a thirty (30) day public comment period for GHG reduction plans.

II.H.    Except for GHG reduction plans submitted by glass container manufacturing facilities after
         September 30, 2025 but no later than June 1, 2027 under Part B, Section II.A, the Division must
         issue an approval or request for modification of the proposed GHG reduction plan to the GEMM 2
         facility by December 31, 2025. For GHG reduction plans submitted by glass container
         manufacturing facilities after September 30, 2025 but no later than June 1, 2027, the Division
         must issue an approval or request for modification of the proposed GHG reduction plan to the
         GEMM 2 facility within three months of submission.

II.I.    The Division will hold at least three (3) public meetings to review the approved GEMM 2 facility
         GHG reduction plans.

II.J.    GHG reduction measures must be timely and completely implemented in accordance with the
         GEMM 2 facility’s documented and approved GHG reduction plan. A GEMM 2 facility may
         request to modify the GHG reduction plan for the facility at any time. The modification must
         comply with the same requirements for the GHG reduction plan in Part B, Section II.

III.     GEMM 2 Facility Greenhouse Gas Emission Requirement Compliance

III.A.   A GEMM 2 facility must first attempt to meet its GEMM 2 annual GHG reduction requirement
         through technically feasible, onsite measures at or below the 2030 social cost of GHGs.

         III.A.1. GHG reductions from onsite carbon capture and storage are considered onsite measures
                  for purposes of Section III.A; provided, however, that onsite carbon capture and storage
                  reductions may only be counted towards compliance with this Regulation Number 27 if
                  the Division has established or adopted by reference a standardized carbon capture and
                  storage protocol or protocols.




                                                                                                            15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


III.B.   If a facility cannot meet its GEMM 2 annual GHG reduction requirement through technically
         feasible, onsite measures at or below the 2030 social cost of GHGs, the facility may retire GHG
         credits through the GHG crediting and tracking system, pursuant to Part D, to achieve the
         remainder of its GEMM 2 annual GHG emission requirement, provided the facility complies with
         requirements set forth in Part B, Section II.A.6., as applicable.

III.C.   Permitting requirements for GHG emission reduction measures.

         III.C.1. A manufacturing stationary source that requires a construction permit(s) or
                  modification(s) of an existing permit(s) in accordance with Regulation Number 3 to
                  comply with the requirements of Parts B or C of Regulation Number 27 must submit a
                  complete permit application to the Division at least twelve (12) months prior to the start of
                  construction or at least twelve (12) months prior to the start of the modification.

         III.C.2. If the owner or operator of a GEMM 2 facility has complied with Part B, Section III.C.1.
                  and the Division has not issued the permit required to comply with Part B within twelve
                  (12) months of receipt of the permit application, the Division will adjust the facility’s
                  GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement, as applicable, upon submission of
                  documentation by the GEMM 2 facility that shows good cause.

IV.      Reporting and Annual Compliance Certification Requirements

IV.A.    Beginning March 31, 2025 and every March 31 thereafter, owners or operators of GEMM 2
         facilities must submit an initial report to the Division that provides the GEMM 2 facility’s reported
         direct GHG emissions for the previous year and the difference between such reported emissions
         and the GEMM 2 facility’s emissions requirement for the previous year, as determined pursuant
         to Part B, Section I.A. Such report must include the following:

         IV.A.1. For a GEMM 2 facility utilizing a combined heat and power unit, when calculating the
                 GEMM 2 facility’s annual GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 pursuant to Section
                 IV.A.1.a., the facility may account for the GHG emissions reduction associated with the
                 combined heat and power unit’s displaced direct thermal emissions, using a six-step
                 formula submitted pursuant to a Division approved form. GHG emissions reductions
                 resulting from the utilization of a facility’s combined heat and power unit(s) may only
                 account for up to 50% of the facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions reduction
                 requirement pursuant to Section I.A.1. through Section I.A.5. of this Part.

         IV.A.2. The GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for the previous year, as determined
                 pursuant to Part B, Section I.A.

         IV.A.3. The difference, if any, between the GEMM 2 facility’s reported direct GHG emissions for
                 the previous year and the GEMM 2 facility’s GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions
                 requirement for the previous year.

IV.B.    On September 30, 2027, owners or operators of GEMM 2 facilities must submit a report to the
         Division that demonstrates compliance on a three-year cycle and includes:

         IV.B.1. A compliance certification in which the account representative of each GEMM 2 facility
                 certifies:

                 IV.B.1.a.      The GEMM 2 facility’s GHG emissions, in metric tons of CO2e, for the
                         calendar years 2024, 2025, and 2026.

                 IV.B.1.b.       The GEMM 2 facility’s GHG emissions requirement for the calendar
                         years 2024, 2025, and 2026, as determined pursuant to Part B, Section I.A.




                                                                                                              16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                IV.B.1.c.         The difference, if any between the GEMM 2 facility’s total reported direct
                        GHG emissions for calendar years 2024, 2025, and 2026 and the GEMM 2
                        facility’s total GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirements for 2024, 2025, and
                        2026 combined.

                IV.B.1.d.        Documentation of GHG credits retired prior to expiration in the GHG
                        crediting and tracking system for compliance purposes in the applicable period.

        IV.B.2. A report detailing progress of and compliance with the approved GHG reduction plan for
                the GEMM 2 facility including relevant project management documentation, project
                status, and timeline

IV.C.   On September 30, 2030, owners or operators of GEMM 2 facilities must submit a report to the
        Division that demonstrates compliance on a three-year cycle that includes:

        IV.C.1. A compliance certification in which the account representative of each GEMM 2 facility
                certifies:

                IV.C.1.a.      The GEMM 2 facility’s GHG emissions, in metric tons of CO2e, for the
                        calendar years 2027, 2028, and 2029.

                IV.C.1.b.       The GEMM 2 facility’s GHG emissions requirement for the calendar
                        years 2027, 2028, and 2029, as determined pursuant to Part B, Section I.A.

                IV.C.1.c.         The difference, if any between the GEMM 2 facility’s total reported direct
                        GHG emissions for calendar years 2027, 2028, and 2029 and the GEMM 2
                        facility’s total GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirements for 2027, 2028, and
                        2029 combined.

                IV.C.1.d.        Documentation of GHG credits retired prior to expiration in the GHG
                        crediting and tracking system for compliance purposes in the applicable period.

        IV.C.2. A report detailing progress of and compliance with the approved GHG reduction plan for
                the GEMM 2 facility including relevant project management documentation, project
                status, and timeline.

IV.D.   Beginning September 30, 2031 and every September 30 thereafter, owners or operators of
        GEMM 2 facilities must submit an annual report to the Division that includes:

        IV.D.1. A compliance certification in which the account representative of each GEMM 2 facility
                certifies:

                IV.D.1.a.        The GEMM 2 facility’s annual GHG emissions, in metric tons of CO2e,
                        for the previous calendar year.

                IV.D.1.b.       The GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions requirement for the previous year,
                        as determined pursuant to Part B, Section I.A.

                IV.D.1.c.     The difference, if any, between the GEMM 2 facility’s reported direct
                        GHG emissions for the previous year and the GEMM 2 facility’s GEMM 2 annual
                        GHG emissions requirement for the previous year.

                IV.D.1.d.        Documentation of GHG credits retired prior to expiration in the GHG
                        crediting and tracking system for compliance purposes in the applicable year.




                                                                                                          17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        IV.D.2. A report detailing progress of and compliance with the approved GHG reduction plan for
                the GEMM 2 facility including relevant project management documentation, project
                status, and timeline.

IV.E.   If (1) Regulation Number 22, Part A is updated such that additional emission sources are
        identified that are required to be reported from a GEMM 2 facility, which emission sources existed
        prior to the change in required reporting under Regulation Number 22, Part A, (2) methodologies
        for emissions calculations change; or (3) there is discovery of a reporting error, then the Division
        will consult with the GEMM 2 facility to adjust the GEMM 2 facility's previous years’ reported GHG
        emissions totals to accommodate such changes or to otherwise ensure a consistent approach to
        a facility’s emissions calculations, back to the year 2015, as applicable.

V.      Recordkeeping

V.A.    GEMM 2 facilities must maintain records for a period of ten (10) years and make records
        available to the Division upon request.

        V.A.1. Reports required under Part B, Section IV.

        V.A.2. Division-approved GHG reduction plans submitted pursuant to Part B, Section I.B. or
               Section II.A. as applicable, and records reasonably necessary to demonstrate
               compliance with the approved GHG reduction plan.

        V.A.3. Any other documents submitted to the Division under this Regulation Number 27.

V.B.    Within fifteen (15) days of receipt, the Division will post to its website the following documents that
        may be submitted by a GEMM 2 facility under this Regulation Number 27: certifications submitted
        under Part B, Section I.A.6; reports submitted under Part B, Section IV.A; records demonstrating
        compliance with GHG reduction plans submitted under Part B, Section V.A.2; and registration
        applications submitted under Part D, Section II.A.1.

V.C.    Confidential business information contained in records submitted to the Division by GEMM 2
        facilities under this Regulation Number 27 must be clearly identified and be submitted in a
        separate, supplementary document to the records.

PART C           Energy-Intensive Trade-Exposed Stationary Source Requirements

I.      Audit Requirements

I.A.    Energy and GHG Emission Control Audits

        I.A.1.   By December 31, 2022, and December 31 every five years thereafter, owners or
                 operators of each EITE stationary source must conduct energy and GHG emission
                 control audits to establish greenhouse gas best available emission control technology
                 (GHG BAECT) and energy best management practices (energy BMPs) and determine
                 whether the stationary source is employing GHG BAECT and energy BMPs at the EITE
                 stationary source, and submit the audit report to the Division.

        I.A.2.   Each EITE stationary source must conduct an audit within twelve (12) months of
                 reporting direct GHG emissions equal to or greater than 25,000 metrics tons CO2e per
                 year under Regulation Number 22, Part A and/or 40 CFR Part 98 and every five years
                 thereafter.




                                                                                                            18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


       I.A.3.   Audits must be conducted by a qualified third-party auditor and meet or exceed nationally
                or internationally accepted energy and GHG accounting and management audit
                standards or protocols.

I.B.   Audit Plan

       I.B.1.   Each EITE stationary source must submit an audit plan to the Division for approval at
                least 120 days prior to beginning the audit as required in Section I.A. The Division will
                review the audit plan and notify the EITE stationary source within 60 days of submission
                of any deficiencies. If notified of deficiencies, the EITE stationary source must submit a
                revised audit plan for final approval no later than 30 days prior to beginning the audit. The
                EITE stationary source must receive approval from the Division of the audit plan prior to
                beginning the audit. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The audit plan
                must include:

                I.B.1.a. A description of all the emission units at the EITE stationary source that directly
                         release one or more GHGs, ordered from largest emitting to smallest emitting
                         emission units averaged over the past 5 years, quantified in CO2e as well as
                         broken out by GHG type. Using this list, the emission units that comprise at least
                         the top 80% of the EITE stationary source’s direct GHG emissions shall be
                         identified, documented and included in the GHG emissions audit scope.
                         Additionally, any individual emissions unit that comprises 2% or more of the EITE
                         stationary source’s direct GHG emissions shall be identified, documented and
                         included in the GHG emissions audit scope.

                I.B.1.b. Unless the EITE stationary source is utilizing Section I.B.1.c. to show
                         employment of energy BMPs, a description of all the emission units at the EITE
                         stationary source that consume energy, averaged over the past five (5) years
                         and ordered from largest consuming to smallest consuming. Using this list, the
                         energy consumption sources that comprise the top 80% of the EITE stationary
                         source’s energy consumption shall be identified, documented and included in the
                         energy audit scope.

                I.B.1.c. If an EITE stationary source is certified to the Federal Energy Star Program or
                         ISO 50001, the EITE stationary source will be determined to be employing
                         energy BMPs and the energy audit will be limited in scope. Proof of certification
                         of the EITE stationary source to one or more of these existing standards must be
                         included in the audit plan to utilize this option.

                        I.B.1.c.(i)         If an EITE stationary source is planning on becoming certified to
                                  one of these standards, the EITE stationary source must submit the
                                  certification or registration timeline or plan, including key milestones
                                  towards certification or registration with certification scheduled for no
                                  more than 12 months after the audit date.

                I.B.1.d. Records of any previous third-party audit results that the EITE stationary source
                         proposes to use to support the audit on a supplementary basis or to avoid
                         duplication of data collection efforts that have been performed within three (3)
                         years prior to the planned audit date. To be accepted, supplementary audit data
                         must be verified and validated by a third party and result from an audit that meets
                         or exceeds nationally or internationally accepted energy and GHG accounting
                         audit standards or protocols.




                                                                                                           19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                I.B.1.e. A description of the audit team members, including experience, qualifications,
                         and role in the audit, and existing or previous business relationship, and the
                         nature of such relationship with the owner or operator of the EITE stationary
                         source. If there is an existing or previous business relationship, a list and
                         description of work done for the owner or operator of the EITE stationary source.

                        I.B.1.e.(i)         The Division may reject a proposed qualified third-party auditor
                                  or audit team if it does not meet the qualifications in Sections II.H. and
                                  II.KK., failed to conduct a previous audit to the satisfaction of the
                                  Division, or is deemed to have a previous or existing relationship with the
                                  source that is so pervasive that the auditor would be unable to conduct
                                  the audit in an unbiased and independent manner.

                I.B.1.f. The specific GHG and/or energy audit standards, protocols or procedures to be
                         used for conducting the audit, if applicable.

I.C.   Audit Reports

       I.C.1.   Each EITE stationary source must complete the audit report in accordance with Sections
                I.C.1.a. through III.C.1.e. and submit the audit report to the Division by December 31 of
                the audit year that includes the following elements for all GHG emission units listed in
                accordance with Section I.B. and specified in the Division-approved audit plan, at a
                minimum.

                I.C.1.a. The GHG BAECT analysis. The audit team must analyze GHG BAECT as
                         follows:

                        I.C.1.a.(i)      Identify all available control technologies and strategies with
                                 practical potential for application to reduce GHG emissions from the
                                 GHG emission units included in the audit scope. Identify the current
                                 GHG emissions rate of each audited emission unit at the time of the
                                 audit.

                                I.C.1.a.(i)(A)    Control technologies and strategies must include, but
                                         are not limited to, fuel use, raw material use, energy efficiency
                                         improvements, preheating/heat reuse and strategic energy
                                         management options), and carbon capture and underground
                                         storage or utilization.

                        I.C.1.a.(ii)      Eliminate technically infeasible control technologies and
                                 strategies.

                                I.C.1.a.(ii)(A)  Notwithstanding Section I.C.1.a.(ii), the audit team must
                                         perform a feasibility assessment of carbon capture and
                                         underground storage or utilization technology for any single
                                         emissions unit evaluated with direct emissions of 100,000 tons
                                         per year or greater CO2e in any of the previous five years as
                                         reported under Regulation Number 22, Part A and/or 40 CFR
                                         Part 98. The audit team shall include this analysis in the audit
                                         report.

                        I.C.1.a.(iii)     Rank remaining emission unit control technologies and
                                 strategies in descending order based on the reduction in direct GHG
                                 emissions per ton of product or output.




                                                                                                             20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                    I.C.1.a.(iv)      Perform a cost-effectiveness analysis on all control technologies
                             and strategies for the emissions unit considering the full lifetime of the
                             equipment. The cost-effectiveness analysis must include an estimate of
                             the net levelized cost per ton of GHG emission reductions ($/ton CO2e)
                             over the life of each proposed control method. The audit team must
                             document in the audit report the discount rate, which is of no more than
                             8%, used for the cost-effectiveness analysis. The net levelized cost
                             analysis should include, but is not necessarily limited to, the following
                             costs and benefits:

                             I.C.1.a.(iv)(A)   Engineering and design costs;

                             I.C.1.a.(iv)(B)   Equipment costs, including installation;

                             I.C.1.a.(iv)(C)   Available tax credits and/or incentive programs; and

                             I.C.1.a.(iv)(D) Changes in the annual costs resulting from the control
                                      technology/method including energy costs, operations and
                                      maintenance costs, and changes to productivity and/or product
                                      quality.

                    I.C.1.a.(v)      Eliminate cost-prohibitive GHG reduction measures considered.
                             GHG reduction measures with a cost-effectiveness of equal to or less
                             than the social cost of GHGs cannot be eliminated as cost-prohibitive,
                             except for a demonstrated, unreasonable burden on competitiveness as
                             analyzed in Section I.C.1.a.(vi).

                    I.C.1.a.(vi)      Consider the economic, energy, and environmental impacts
                             arising from each option under consideration. In this case, economic
                             reasonableness includes an analysis of the economic impact of the
                             emission unit control option on the EITE stationary source’s
                             competitiveness within the marketplace. The audit team must document
                             these determinations and associated analyses in the audit report.

                    I.C.1.a.(vii)    Additional required documentation for all control technologies
                             and strategies must include, but are not limited to, overall implementation
                             cost, control efficiency, remaining useful life of the equipment, impacts to
                             land use approvals, and a quantification of any co-benefits. The level of
                             analysis conducted and documented shall consider the nature of the
                             GHG BAECT measure and potential impacts of these additional criteria.

                    I.C.1.a.(viii)     The GHG BAECT analysis may reference recently permitted
                             GHG best available control technologies (BACT), operational or process
                             limits in the EITE stationary source’s air pollution permits or in the
                             RACT/BACT/LAER Clearinghouse for similar operations as applicable.

             I.C.1.b. The energy BMP analysis.

                    I.C.1.b.(i)        Unless the EITE stationary source successfully demonstrates
                             that it currently employs energy BMPs pursuant to Section I.C.1.b.(ii) or
                             (iii) and provides the requisite supporting information pursuant to
                             Sections I.C.1.b.(ii)(A) and (B) or I.C.1.b.(iii)(A) to I.C.1.b.(iii)(C), the audit
                             team must analyze energy BMPs as follows:




                                                                                                             21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                           5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                          I.C.1.b.(i)(A)    Identify all available energy efficiency measures for the
                                   specific energy consumption sources included in the audit scope.
                                   Any energy efficiency measure considered to be a GHG BAECT
                                   option but not recommended as GHG BAECT must be included
                                   in the energy BMP analysis for that GHG emission unit, as
                                   applicable. This analysis can exclude any control technologies
                                   that redefine the stationary source.

                          I.C.1.b.(i)(B)  Eliminate technically infeasible energy efficiency
                                   measures.

                          I.C.1.b.(i)(C)    Rank remaining energy efficiency measures based on
                                   the reduction in energy use per ton of final product manufactured
                                   at the facility.

                          I.C.1.b.(i)(D)    Perform a cost-effectiveness analysis on all energy
                                   efficiency measures considering the full lifetime of the measure.
                                   The cost-effectiveness analysis must include an estimate of the
                                   net levelized cost per energy consumption reduction over the life
                                   of the equipment. The audit team must document in the audit
                                   report the discount rate, which is of no more than 8%, used for
                                   the cost-effectiveness analysis. The net levelized cost analysis
                                   should include, but is not necessarily limited to, the following
                                   costs and benefits:

                                  I.C.1.b.(i)(D)(1) Engineering and design costs;

                                  I.C.1.b.(i)(D)(2) Equipment costs including installation;

                                  I.C.1.b.(i)(D)(3) Available tax credits and/or incentive programs;
                                           and

                                  I.C.1.b.(i)(D)(4) Changes in the following annual costs resulting
                                           from the control technology/method including energy
                                           costs, operations and maintenance costs, and changes
                                           to productivity and/or product quality.

                          I.C.1.b.(i)(E)    Eliminate cost-prohibitive energy efficiency measures
                                   considered. Energy efficiency measures with a cost-
                                   effectiveness equal to or under the social cost of GHGs cannot
                                   be eliminated as cost-prohibitive, except for a demonstrated,
                                   unreasonable burden on competitiveness shown in Section
                                   I.C.1.b.(i)(F).

                          I.C.1.b.(i)(F)    Consider the economic, energy, and environmental
                                   impacts arising from each measure remaining under
                                   consideration. In this case, economic reasonableness includes
                                   an analysis of the economic impact of the measure on the EITE
                                   stationary source’s competitiveness within the marketplace. The
                                   audit team must document these determinations and associated
                                   analyses in the audit report.




                                                                                                  22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                             I.C.1.b.(i)(G)     Additional required documentation for all analyzed
                                      measures include, but are not limited to, cost-effectiveness,
                                      remaining useful life of the equipment, impacts to land use
                                      approvals and any co-benefits. The level of analysis conducted
                                      and documented shall consider the nature of the energy
                                      efficiency measure and potential impacts of these additional
                                      criteria.

                    I.C.1.b.(ii)     In lieu of performing the energy BMP analysis, certification within
                             12 months of the audit date under the annual Federal Energy Star
                             Program will be determined as employment of energy BMPs for the EITE
                             stationary source. Annual Energy Star certification documentation for all
                             years subsequent to the previous audit as well as the current certification
                             must be included in the audit report and contain:

                             I.C.1.b.(ii)(A)  Specific BMP energy efficiency measures the EITE
                                      stationary source used to achieve the Federal Energy Star
                                      Program certification; and

                             I.C.1.b.(ii)(B)  The annual Energy Performance Indicator (EPI)
                                      benchmarking spreadsheet demonstrating a score of 75 or
                                      higher submitted with the Energy Star application.

                    I.C.1.b.(iii)   In lieu of performing the energy BMP analysis, registration to ISO
                             50001 within 12 months of the audit date will be determined as
                             employment of energy BMPs for the EITE stationary source.
                             Management system documentation must be included in the audit report
                             and contain:

                             I.C.1.b.(iii)(A) Specific BMP energy efficiency measures the EITE
                                      stationary source used to achieve the ISO 50001 Program
                                      certification;

                             I.C.1.b.(iii)(B) Information on the energy management system including
                                      the Manual, Objectives and Goals, Energy Policy and results of
                                      the most recent energy management system audit; and

                             I.C.1.b.(iii)(C)   The valid registration certificate.

                    I.C.1.b.(iv)       If an EITE stationary source fails to achieve the annual
                             certification by the EPA Energy Star Program or registration to ISO
                             50001, the source must submit a compliance action plan to the Division
                             within 90 days of the certification or registration expiration. The plan must
                             include the EITE stationary source’s plan and timeline to implement
                             energy BMPs to either reacquire certification in the EPA Energy Star
                             Program, reacquire ISO 50001 registration, or comply with the
                             requirements in Section I.C.1.b.(i). The energy BMPs must be achieved
                             within twelve months after the compliance action plan is approved by the
                             Division.

             I.C.1.c. The GHG BAECT and energy BMP recommendation.

                    I.C.1.c.(i)       The GHG BAECT recommendation will include:




                                                                                                       23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                   I.C.1.c.(i)(A)    Recommendations on the most effective direct GHG
                                             emissions control technology and strategy, or suite of
                                             technologies and strategies, for the GHG emissions unit
                                             analyzed as GHG BAECT;

                                   I.C.1.c.(i)(B)    A list of emissions control measures with a levelized cost
                                             less than or equal to $0; and

                                   I.C.1.c.(i)(C)    Recommendations on GHG BAECT options that provide
                                             greater co-benefits to the surrounding communities where the
                                             top emission unit control technologies or strategies are
                                             comparable in terms of cost-effectiveness.

                                   I.C.1.c.(i)(D)      A calculation of the Non-GHG BAECT emissions. Non-
                                             GHG BAECT emissions are calculated by subtracting the
                                             reported emissions from units evaluated for GHG BAECT from
                                             the facility annual emissions at the time of the first audit. This
                                             shall be calculated as follows:

                                           Non-GHG BAECT Emissions = Total direct emissions from the
                                           most recent year reported – (reported emissions from the units
                                           evaluated for GHG BAECT)

                         I.C.1.c.(ii)      The energy BMP recommendation will include:

                                   I.C.1.c.(ii)(A)   Recommendations on the most effective energy
                                            efficiency measures for the energy consumption sources
                                            analyzed to be set as Energy BMPs.

                                   I.C.1.c.(ii)(B)  A list of energy efficiency measures with a levelized cost
                                            less than or equal to $0;

                                   I.C.1.c.(ii)(C)  Recommendations on Energy BMP options that provide
                                            greater co-benefits to the surrounding communities where the
                                            top emissions unit control technologies or strategies are
                                            comparable in terms of cost effectiveness.

                I.C.1.d. A plain-language summary of the audit findings, determinations, and
                         recommendations in the top two languages spoken by the community
                         surrounding the EITE stationary source. This summary shall include the list of
                         GHG BAECT options for the emission units analyzed, how they were ranked and
                         why they are being recommended.

                I.C.1.e. Confidential business information must be clearly identified and be submitted in a
                         separate, supplementary document to the audit report.

II.     GHG BAECT and Energy BMP Determination

II.A.   Within 60 days of receipt of the audit report, the Division will determine GHG BAECT and energy
        BMPs for the EITE stationary sources as follows:

        II.A.1. The GHG BAECT determination may be based on the top-ranked control technology for
                the emission units in the audit report, or a suite of control technologies, at the Division’s
                discretion, so long as:




                                                                                                              24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                II.A.1.a. The cost of the suite of control measures, combined, would not be unduly
                          burdensome to the facility; and

                II.A.1.b. The total annual CO2 emissions reductions generated by the suite of measures
                          is equal to or greater than the annual CO2 emissions reductions generated by
                          the top-ranked control technology according to the audit report.

        II.A.2. A GHG BAECT determination will be issued for each GHG emissions unit in the audit
                scope and include:

                II.A.2.a. The Division’s determination of specific control technologies and/or measures for
                          that emission unit, including the current GHG emissions rate of each audited
                          emission unit at the time of the audit;

                II.A.2.b. All control technologies found under Section I.C.1.a. to have a net levelized cost
                          less than or equal to $0, where cost neutrality can be achieved no more than 5
                          years from operational date of the technology, except where the auditor has
                          established that doing so would pose an unreasonable burden to the facility; and

                II.A.2.c. The GHG emission rate per unit of final product at the EITE stationary source for
                          the individual emissions units after implementation of the prescribed measures.

                II.A.2.d. The final GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate determination shall be
                          issued for the EITE stationary source as a rate of total GHG emission (CO2e) for
                          the emissions units included in the audit scope per final product of the facility.
                          This calculation shall be based on the determination(s) in Sections II.A.1. and
                          II.A.3. (as applicable) and shall be calculated as follows:

                        II.A.2.d.(i)       The Division may adjust the final GHG BAECT and energy BMP
                                  intensity determination based on a change to the GHG emission rate for
                                  any GHG BAECT measure after the GHG reduction measure is fully
                                  operational and tuned.

                                GHG BAECT & Energy BMP Intensity Rate Determination = Σ (CO2e per
                                tons of facility product for each emission unit in audit scope).

        II.A.3. The energy BMP determination will be issued for each energy consumption source in the
                audit scope and include:

                II.A.3.a. The Division’s determination of energy BMPs for the specific energy consuming
                          equipment; and

                II.A.3.b. Any energy efficiency measures found under Section I.C.1.b. to have a net
                          levelized cost less than or equal to $0 that are not included in the BAECT
                          determination, unless the auditor has established that doing so would pose an
                          unreasonable burden to the facility.

II.B.   The Division will hold one or more public meetings on the results of the final GHG BAECT and
        energy BMP determinations.

II.C.   Within 45 days of making its final GHG BAECT and energy BMP determinations, the Division will
        present the determinations at a regular meeting of the Commission. The Commission may
        approve the determinations or return them to the Division for further analysis. The Division will
        return to the Commission for final approval at its next regular meeting or as soon as practical.




                                                                                                          25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


III.     Emission Reduction Requirements

III.A.   All EITE stationary sources subject to this rule must reduce facility-wide GHG emissions by 5
         percent.

         III.A.1. EITE stationary sources annual emissions limitation shall be calculated as described in
                  this Section III.A.1. Multiply the EITE stationary source’s prescribed final GHG BAECT
                  and energy BMP intensity rate determination, as determined by the Division under
                  Section III. by the number of units produced in the calendar year, to result in a GHG
                  BAECT mass emission number. If an EITE stationary source produces more than one
                  product and, as a result, has more than one final GHG BAECT determination, the GHG
                  BAECT mass emissions is calculated by multiplying the intensity rate for each product by
                  the amount of product produced in the previous year, to calculate the GHG BAECT mass
                  emissions for each product, and then adding the mass emissions for each product to
                  calculate the GHG BAECT mass emissions. Add the Non-GHG BAECT emissions
                  calculated under Section I.C.1.c.(i)(D) to the GHG BAECT emissions number, resulting in
                  a mass-based emissions representing the facility-wide total GHG emissions (CO2e),
                  which serves as the baseline for the 5 percent mass-based reduction. Subtract the five
                  (5) percent mass emissions reduction as required under Section III. This shall be
                  calculated as follows:

                 Annual Emission Limit for Compliance Year in tons CO2e = (((GHG BAECT & Energy
                 BMP Intensity Rate Determination) * (Compliance Year Facility Product)) + Non-GHG
                 BAECT determination) * 0.95

         III.A.2. Beginning no later than the third year after each audit year, EITE stationary sources must
                  demonstrate the additional mass-based five (5) percent GHG emission reduction and
                  continued compliance with the reduction described in this section, by comparing the total
                  mass GHG emissions limitation to the direct reported GHG emissions for the previous
                  year. This is demonstrated through the annual compliance certification in Section V.A.

         III.A.3. Where an EITE stationary source’s approved compliance action plan requires that the
                  plan be completed and operational after the third year after each audit year, the EITE
                  stationary source must meet an interim annual mass emission limit achieving the required
                  mass-based five (5) percent GHG emission reduction.

                 III.A.3.a.         This interim annual five (5) percent mass reduction shall be calculated by
                           multiplying the EITE stationary source’s GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity
                           rate, as determined by the Division under Section II. by the number of units
                           produced in the third calendar year, to result in a GHG BAECT mass emission
                           number. Add the Non-GHG BAECT emissions to this number. Five (5) percent of
                           this mass emissions total represents the mass GHG emissions reduction
                           required in tons of CO2e. The calculation is as follows:

                         ((((GHG BAECT & Energy BMP Intensity Rate Determination) * (Compliance
                         Year Facility Product)) + Non-GHG BAECT determination) * 5%)

                 III.A.3.b.        The interim annual emissions limitation is calculated by multiplying the
                           current GHG emissions intensity rate as documented in the most recent audit by
                           the compliance year facility product to result in a mass GHG emissions total. Add
                           the Non-GHG BAECT emissions to this total, and then subtract the 5% reduction
                           calculated in Section III.A.3.a. The calculation is as follows:




                                                                                                           26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                         ((Current GHG Emissions Intensity Rate as documented in the audit report *
                         Compliance Year Facility Product) + Non-GHG BAECT determination) – ((((GHG
                         BAECT & Energy BMP Intensity Rate Determination) * (Compliance Year Facility
                         Product)) + Non-GHG BAECT Determination) * 5%)

III.B.   If, at any point after the 2022 audit cycle and before 2030 an EITE stationary source achieves
         mass based GHG emission reductions equal to or greater than 20% below the source’s 2015
         GHG emissions baseline, the 5% emission reduction required under Section III.A. is considered
         satisfied through the year 2030, provided the 20% mass-based reductions are sustained as
         demonstrated through annual compliance certifications under Section V.A.1. An EITE stationary
         source meeting this requirement must continue to conduct the annual audits and otherwise
         comply with the requirements of this rule.

IV.      Emission Reduction Requirement Compliance

IV.A.    The EITE stationary source must submit a compliance action plan within 120 days of the
         Commission’s approval of the GHG BAECT, energy BMPs, and GHG BAECT and energy BMP
         intensity rate determination that includes the EITE stationary source’s plan and timeline to comply
         with the annual mass emission limit, and interim mass emission limit in Section IV.A.2.d. as
         applicable and the energy BMPs determination.

         IV.A.1. The EITE stationary source may use the following emission reduction mechanisms to
                 comply with the annual and interim emission limits:

                 IV.A.1.a.        Actual, direct emissions reductions onsite at the EITE stationary source;
                         or

                 IV.A.1.b.        Actual direct GHG emission reductions submitted in the form of GHG
                         credits awarded by the Division. In order to produce GHG credits, the emissions
                         reductions must be real, additional, verifiable, permanent and enforceable. GHG
                         credits will only be issued in the tracking system after emission reduction have
                         been demonstrated; or

                 IV.A.1.c.        Installation and utilization at the facility of a retail distributed generation
                         or net meter renewable energy project that reduces the GHG emissions from the
                         EITE stationary source’s electrical energy use, and for which the EITE stationary
                         source has retired Renewable Energy Credits in Colorado generated that year,
                         which demonstrate emissions reductions to comply with Section III.A. Utilization
                         of Renewable Energy Credits for compliance cannot exceed the annual
                         generation of the distributed generation system and it can only be used to satisfy
                         the five (5) percent GHG emission reduction associated with Section III.A. and
                         shall not be used for any other component of the annual emission limitation.

         IV.A.2. If the measure(s) determined to be GHG BAECT and/or energy BMPs for an emission
                 unit also are anticipated to result in significant co-benefits, then the EITE stationary
                 source must demonstrate in its compliance action plan that the co-benefits will be
                 achieved through comparable reductions of the relevant harmful air pollutant(s) at the
                 EITE stationary source. If an EITE stationary source demonstrates there are no material
                 co-benefits from the implementation of the measure(s) determined to be GHG BAECT
                 and/or energy BMPs, these requirements do not apply.

IV.B.    Beginning no later than the third year after each audit year, EITE stationary sources must
         demonstrate the additional mass-based five (5) percent GHG emission reduction described in this
         Section V. through the annual compliance certification in Section V.A.1.




                                                                                                               27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


IV.C.   When considering compliance options with similar or the same cost-effectiveness, the EITE entity
        must give increased priority to GHG reduction initiatives that would produce co-benefits to the
        neighboring communities surrounding the EITE stationary source.

IV.D.   The Division will review the compliance action plan for approval.

IV.E.   EITE stationary sources must comply with the compliance action plan once approved by the
        Division.

IV.F.   If in any calendar year an EITE stationary source achieves reported emissions lower than the
        annual emissions limitation, the Division will award the EITE stationary source GHG credits equal
        to the difference between the annual emissions limitation and reported emissions. GHG credits
        will only be issued after emission reductions have been demonstrated.

IV.G.   If in any calendar year an EITE stationary source fails to achieve the annual emissions limitation,
        the owners and operators may remedy this noncompliance by surrendering in the EITE entity’s
        compliance account sufficient GHG credits so as to reduce the actual emissions to the EITE
        annual emissions limitation.

V.      Reporting

V.A.    Owners or operators of EITE stationary sources must submit an annual report to the Division by
        May 1 of each year (beginning May 1, 2026) that includes:

        V.A.1. Annual Compliance Certification Requirements. The account representative of each EITE
               stationary source must submit a compliance certification to the Division or its agent that
               certifies:

                V.A.1.a.           The EITE stationary source’s annual GHG emissions, in metric tons, for
                           the previous calendar year;

                V.A.1.b.            The total production at the EITE stationary source, in units that are
                           consistent with the GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate determination,
                           for the previous year;

                V.A.1.c.           The EITE stationary source’s GHG emissions rate per product for the
                           previous calendar year and the GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate
                           determination.

                V.A.1.d.           The EITE stationary source’s annual emissions limitation for the previous
                           year;

                V.A.1.e.           The difference, if any, between the EITE stationary source’s actual total
                           direct GHG emissions for the previous year and the EITE stationary source’s
                           annual emissions limitation for the previous year.

                V.A.1.f.          For EITE stationary sources that are complying through GHG credits
                           pursuant to Section VI.A.1.b.:

                           V.A.1.f.(i)        In the event that the EITE stationary source has actual total
                                    emissions that exceed its annual emissions limitation, the compliance
                                    certification shall specify the GHG credits that are to be surrendered from
                                    the EITE stationary source’s compliance account sufficient to meet the
                                    EITE stationary source’s annual emissions limitation.




                                                                                                            28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        V.A.2. Current project status to implement GHG BAECT or energy BMPs contained in a
               compliance action plan under Section IV.A.;

                V.A.2.a.           The current status of measures to achieve comparable co-benefits
                           required under Section IV.A.2.

        V.A.3. If the EITE stationary source is determined to be employing energy BMPs through
               certification to the Federal Energy Star Program or the ISO 50001 standard, the EITE
               stationary source must submit the information in accordance with Section I.C.1.b.;

        V.A.4. Instances of noncompliance with the Division’s approved GHG BAECT and energy BMPs
               determination, compliance action plan, reason(s) for noncompliance, and actions taken or
               planned to return to compliance; and

        V.A.5. All information necessary for the Division to confirm the EITE stationary source’s
               emission rate in the prior year.

V.B.    In addition to the annual report, owners and operators of EITE stationary sources must submit a
        final audit update to the Division within 60 days of the operation of GHG BAECT and/or energy
        BMPs, which includes verification that all GHG BAECT and energy BMP measures established in
        Section II. are operational.

VI.     Recordkeeping

VI.A.   EITE stationary sources must maintain records for a period of ten (10) years and make records
        available to the Division upon request, including:

        VI.A.1. Division approved audit plan.

        VI.A.2. Final audit reports.

        VI.A.3. Commission approved GHG BAECT and energy BMP determinations.

        VI.A.4. Annual Compliance Certificate.

        VI.A.5. Approved compliance action plans and records reasonably necessary to demonstrate
                compliance with the approved plan.

        VI.A.6. Current certification or registration documentation to applicable standards to show
                continued compliance with Section I.C.1.b.(ii) or (iii).

        VI.A.7. If the final GHG BAECT is determined to have an operation date that is beyond the next
                5-year audit, the EITE stationary source must maintain records of project management
                documentation related to the implementation of the GHG BAECT measure including
                project status, timeline, expected operational date as proposed and approved in the
                compliance action plan.

PART D          Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading

I.     Establishment and Maintenance of Accounting and GHG Crediting and Tracking System
and Accounts

I.A.    By December 1, 2024, the Division or its agent will establish a GHG crediting and tracking
        system.




                                                                                                        29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                         5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


I.B.    Upon receipt of the registration requirements under Part D, Section II., the Division or its agent
        will establish one (1) credit account for each manufacturing stationary source; midstream
        segment company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas
        distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner or operator in the GHG crediting and
        tracking system.

I.C.    The Division will assign a specific identifier in the GHG crediting and tracking system to a
        manufacturing stationary source located within a disproportionately impacted community.

I.D.    If there is no activity on a credit account(s) in the GHG crediting and tracking system for eighteen
        (18) months or longer, the Division may purge the unused credit account(s) from the GHG
        crediting and tracking system as long as the Division provides written notice to the account
        representative(s) of the intended purge and either the account representative(s) does not respond
        to the Division’s written notice of the intended purge in writing within a reasonable time or the
        account representative(s) agree to the purge in writing.

II.     Registration for the Greenhouse Gas Crediting and Tracking System

II.A.   All manufacturing stationary sources; midstream segment companies; and gas distribution utility,
        municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner
        or operator must submit an application for an environmental identifier (environmental ID) with the
        Division if the entities does not already has an environmental ID.

II.B.   All manufacturing stationary sources; midstream segment companies; and gas distribution utility,
        municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner
        or operator must submit a registration application for a credit account to the Division or its agent
        as follows.

        II.B.1. All GEMM 2 facilities must submit a registration application for a credit account in the
                GHG crediting and tracking system to the Division or its agent by December 31, 2024, or
                within thirty (30) days after the GEMM 2 facility first reports annual direct GHG emissions
                equal to or greater than the 25,000 metric tons of CO2e threshold, whichever occurs
                later.

        II.B.2. All EITE stationary sources must submit a registration application for a credit account in
                the GHG crediting and tracking system to the Division or its agent within thirty (30) days
                after the Commission approves the EITE stationary sources’ GHG BAECT and energy
                BMP determination, or within thirty (30) days after the EITE stationary source first reports
                annual direct GHG emissions equal to or greater than the 25,000 metric tons of CO2e
                threshold, whichever occurs later.

        II.B.3. All midstream segment companies must submit a registration application for a credit
                account in the GHG crediting and tracking system to the Division or its agent by
                December 1, 2028, or within ninety (90) days of becoming a midstream segment
                company subject to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII., whichever occurs later.

        II.B.4. All gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or
                recovered methane project owner or operator must submit a registration application for a
                credit account in the GHG crediting and tracking system to the Division or its agent
                before they may submit an application for recovered methane credits or participate in a
                credit transaction in the GHG crediting and tracking system.

II.C.   In addition and in connection with each registration application, registration applicants must
        include other information that the Division deems necessary, including but not limited to the
        following information.




                                                                                                                  30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        II.C.1. Legal name(s), physical and mailing addresses, contact information, date and place of
                incorporation, and any identification number assigned by the incorporating agency of the
                owner or operator that controls the manufacturing stationary source; midstream segment
                company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas
                distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner or operator;

        II.C.2. Legal name(s), mailing addresses, and contact information of the directors and officers
                with authority to make legally binding decisions on behalf of the manufacturing stationary
                source; midstream segment company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas
                distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or owner or operator of a recovered
                methane project, including any partners with over ten (10) percent control of a
                partnership that owns or controls the manufacturing stationary source; midstream
                segment company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas
                distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner or operator, including any
                individual or entity doing business as the limited partner or the general partner;

        II.C.3. Legal name(s) and contact information of person(s) with over ten (10) percent control of
                the voting rights attached to all the outstanding voting securities of the entity that owns or
                controls the manufacturing stationary source; midstream segment company; and gas
                distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or
                recovered methane project owner or operator;

        II.C.4. A business number, if one has been assigned to the entity by a Colorado state agency, to
                the entity that owns or controls the manufacturing stationary source; midstream segment
                company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas
                distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner or operator;

        II.C.5. NAICS code, AIRS ID, and EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program Facility ID for the
                manufacturing stationary source; midstream segment company; and gas distribution
                utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or recovered methane
                project owner or operator;

        II.C.6. A government-issued taxpayer or Employer Identification Number or, for entities located
                in the United States, a U.S. Federal Tax Employer Identification Number, if assigned, for
                the entity that owns or controls the manufacturing stationary source; midstream segment
                company; and gas distribution utility, municipal gas distribution utility, small gas
                distribution utility, or recovered methane project owner or operator;

        II.C.7. A confirmation of whether the manufacturing stationary source or gas distribution utility,
                municipal gas distribution utility, small gas distribution utility, or recovered methane
                project owner or operator is located within a disproportionately impacted community
                using Colorado EnviroScreen; and

        II.C.8. The midstream segment company’s registration application must include an attachment
                confirming whether and which of the company’s facilities are located within a
                disproportionately impacted community, as identified using Colorado EnviroScreen
                Version 1.

II.D.   Any individual who requires access to the GHG crediting and tracking system on behalf of a
        manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company or midstream segment
        company must register as a user in the GHG crediting and tracking system.

        II.D.1   Each manufacturing stationary source and midstream segment company must designate
                 one primary account representative and at least one, and up to four, alternate account
                 representatives.




                                                                                                              31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


         II.D.2. Registering users must provide their legal name(s) and contact information when
                 applying to become an account representative.

         II.D.3. Each account representative shall represent, and by his or her representations, actions,
                 inactions, or submissions, legally bind the manufacturing stationary source or midstream
                 segment company in all matters relating to Regulation Number 27. Any representation,
                 action, inaction, or submission by any authorized account representative will be deemed
                 to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the source.

III.     Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading Requirements

III.A.   GHG credits will be generated as follows.

         III.A.1. For the purpose of trading GHG credits between EITE facilities, EITE facilities will
                  generate one (1) GHG credit per metric ton of CO2e for each metric ton of CO2e that the
                  relevant facility’s annual direct GHG emissions are less than its annual emissions
                  limitation in the relevant year.

         III.A.2. For the purpose of trading GHG credits between GEMM 2 facilities:

                 III.A.2.a.         Subject to Section III.A.2.a.(i), in any compliance year, a GEMM 2 facility
                           will generate one (1) GHG credit for each metric ton of CO2e that the facility’s
                           annual direct GHG emissions are less than its GEMM 2 annual GHG emissions
                           requirement for 2030.

                         III.A.2.a.(i)      In any compliance year, a GEMM 2 facility with a production-
                                   related adjusted baseline will generate one (1) GHG credit for each
                                   metric ton of CO2e that the facility’s annual direct GHG emissions are
                                   less than the result of the below calculation:

                                  (Higher of the GEMM 2 facility’s 2021 or 2022 emissions, as reported
                                  under Regulation Number 22) * (1 -2030 GEMM 2 facility GHG
                                  percentage reduction requirement as specified in Part B, Section I.A.)

                 III.A.2.b.          Beginning in the 2031 compliance year, a GEMM 2 facility may generate
                           one (1) GHG credit per one (1) metric ton of CO2e quantifiably reduced through
                           offsite direct air carbon capture projects, provided, however, that such projects
                           may be used for compliance with this Regulation Number 27 only after the
                           Division approves a protocol governing the implementation of such projects.

         III.A.3. GHG credit trading between EITE and GEMM 2 facilities will be allowed beginning in
                  2025 subject to Division guidance to be published no later than December 1, 2024.

III.B.   The Division will issue GHG credits to manufacturing stationary sources as follows.

         III.B.1. On an annual basis beginning with the 2024 compliance year, and by the first Tuesday of
                  May 2025 and on the first Tuesday of each May thereafter, the Division will credit the
                  GHG crediting and tracking system credit account of an operating GEMM 2 facility that
                  has submitted all reports in accordance with Part B, Section IV.A, as verified by the
                  Division, with GHG credits equal to the difference between the facility's annual direct
                  GHG emissions in the applicable compliance year and its GEMM 2 annual GHG
                  emissions requirement for 2030 as established in Part B, Section I. A GEMM 2 facility
                  which has ceased operations may not generate GHG credits.




                                                                                                             32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


         III.B.2. The Division will annually issue GHG credits in the GHG crediting and tracking system to
                  an EITE stationary source to the extent its annual direct GHG emissions in the applicable
                  compliance year are less than its annual emissions limitation in the applicable
                  compliance year, as a result of permanent, real, and verifiable emission reduction
                  measures implemented at the EITE stationary source.

         III.B.3. Each GHG credit issued by the Division in the GHG crediting and tracking system will be
                  uniquely identifiable.

         III.B.4 By the third Tuesday of May 2025 and each third Tuesday of May thereafter, the Division
                 will publish on its website the total amount of any GHG credits credited collectively to the
                 compliance accounts of manufacturing stationary sources for the previous calendar year,
                 and the cumulative surplus or shortfall of credits for that vintage year.

III.C.   A GHG credit will expire three (3) years after its issuance date in the GHG crediting and tracking
         system unless it is retired prior to expiration in the GHG crediting and tracking system. An expired
         GHG credit may no longer be retired, sold, or transferred in the GHG crediting and tracking
         system.

III.D.   To avoid double-counting of GHG emission reductions, GHG credits generated under this
         Regulation Number 27, Part D, may not be sold into or used in any carbon or GHG offset registry
         or trading market outside of the GHG crediting and tracking system.

III.E.   Subject to Part D, Sections III.A.3. and Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII.F.6.f., any
         manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company may sell GHG credits to any
         other manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company upon such terms as
         agreed upon between the manufacturing stationary source and midstream segment company at
         any time, except to the extent the GHG credits are offered for sale pursuant to an auction under
         Part D, Section IV. Within thirty (30) days of completing any GHG credit sale, the manufacturing
         stationary sources or midstream segment company participating in the transaction will report to
         the Division, through a Division-approved process, the quantity and price or other consideration,
         for each vintage year(s) of GHG credits sold, and the Division shall post on its website the
         parties, quantity, and vintage year(s) of GHG credits sold within thirty (30) days of receiving such
         report. The Division may elect to publish pricing information from such reports.

         III.E.1. Upon reporting of a GHG credit transaction, the GHG credits subject to the trade will be
                  transferred from the selling party’s compliance account to the buying party’s compliance
                  account within the GHG crediting and tracking system.

         III.E.2. In selling GHG credits, the seller warrants and represents that the credits generated are
                  based on an accurate reporting of GHG emissions for the relevant year. Buyers of GHG
                  credits buy GHG credits with this assurance.

IV.      Annual GHG Credit Auctioning

IV.A.    On June 30, 2025 and each June 30 or first business day thereafter, the auction administrator will
         administer a voluntary GHG credit auction. Only manufacturing stationary sources may
         participate in any GHG credit auction to buy or sell GHG credits. Beginning in 2028 with GHG
         credit vintage year 2027, midstream segment companies may participate in the GHG credit
         auction to buy or sell GHG credits.

         IV.A.1. The auction administrator shall create a publicly available website for publishing
                 information related to the annual auction. The website shall contain the following
                 information:




                                                                                                           33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                IV.A.1.a.        General guidance on the process, including how bids and offers are used
                        to determine the auction settlement price and the total quantity of GHG credits
                        sold at auction.

IV.B.   Beginning the third Tuesday of May 2025 and each third Tuesday of May thereafter, the auction
        administrator shall publish a notice of auction on its website, with the following information:

        IV.B.1. Auction application requirements and instructions;

        IV.B.2. The form and manner for submitting bids;

        IV.B.3. The procedures for conducting the auction; and

        IV.B.4. The time, date, and procedures for a second round of the auction, if necessary, pursuant
                to Section IV.I.

IV.C.   By May 31, 2025 and every May 31 thereafter, any manufacturing stationary source that desires
        to participate in the auction, for each vintage year of GHG credits, as a bidder or offeror must
        inform the auction administrator in writing in order to participate and submit bids or offers,
        respectively, in the auction. In order to participate and submit bids or offers in the auction,
        midstream segment companies must inform the auction administrator in writing by May 31, 2029,
        and every May 31 thereafter. Failure to provide such notice for a vintage year of GHG credits
        precludes the manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company from participating
        in that year’s annual auction process for the respective vintage year.

        IV.C.1. A manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company that offers to sell
                GHG credits in one or more vintage years in any auction is not eligible to bid to purchase
                GHG credits from the same vintage years in the same auction, but is eligible to bid on
                GHG credits from vintage years different than those offered for sale.

        IV.C.2. A manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company that bids to buy GHG
                credits in one or more vintage years in any auction is not eligible to offer to sell GHG
                credits from the same vintage years in the same auction, but is eligible to offer GHG
                credits for sale from vintage years different than those bid for purchase.

IV.D.   Three (3) business days after receiving notices of intent to participate, the auction administrator
        will determine whether a sufficient number of bidders and offerors have given notice of their intent
        to participate in the annual auction. A sufficient number requires more than zero offerors and
        more than zero bidders. If there is a sufficient number of bidders and offerors, then the auction
        administrator will publish a notice stating that the auction will take place that year and will provide
        the number of bidders and offerors that have provided a notice of intent to participate. If there is
        not a sufficient number of bidders and offerors, then the auction administrator will publish a notice
        on its website canceling the auction for that year, and the timeline in the remaining sections of
        this Part D shall not apply.

IV.E.   Auction window. Five (5) business days after May 31 of the relevant year, the auction
        administrator will accept bids and offers from bidders and offerors, respectively, for each vintage
        year of GHG credits through the GHG crediting and tracking system managed by the auction
        administrator, and the auction administrator shall allow bids and offers to be submitted by no later
        than June 15 of the relevant year.

        IV.E.1. The auction bidding and offering window may be delayed, rescheduled, or canceled due
                to technical systems failures.




                                                                                                            34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                IV.E.1.a.       If technical systems failures cannot be resolved and a bidding window
                        cannot be rescheduled to meet the requirements of this section, then the auction
                        administrator will cancel the auction bidding window.

IV.F.   All bids for GHG credits will be considered a binding commitment for the purchase of GHG credits
        under the rules of the auction. All offers for GHG credits submitted for sale in the auction will be
        considered a binding commitment for the sale of GHG credits under the rules of the auction, and
        by offering GHG credits for sale, potential sellers warrant and represent that the credits generated
        are based on an accurate reporting of GHG emissions for the relevant year.

IV.G.   Auction Format

        IV.G.1. A separate auction will be held for each vintage year of GHG credits, and each auction
                will consist of a single round of bids and offers for GHG credits of the applicable vintage
                year.

        IV.G.2. Each individual manufacturing stationary source or midstream segment company may
                only act as a bidder or offeror of GHG credits for an individual vintage year in the annual
                auction, consistent with Section IV.C.

        IV.G.3. Bidders submit bids and offerors submit offers.

        IV.G.4. Each bidder may submit multiple bids for each vintage year of GHG credits.

        IV.G.5. Each offeror may submit multiple offers for each vintage year of GHG credits.

        IV.G.6. Bids and offers will be sealed and given confidential treatment.

        IV.G.7. Bids and offers must specify the quantity of GHG credits to be transacted and must be
                submitted as multiples of tens (10) or hundreds (100) GHG credits.

        IV.G.8. Bids and offers must be submitted in U.S. dollars and whole cents, on a per-GHG credit
                basis.

        IV.G.9. Bids and offers must specify the vintage year of the GHG credits for which they are
                made.

IV.H.   Determination of Winning Bidders and Settlement Price. For each auction of each vintage year of
        GHG credits, the following process shall be used to determine a single auction settlement price,
        allocations of GHG credits sold to bidders, and proceeds from such sales to offerors:

        IV.H.1. Each bid will consist of a price and the quantity of GHG credits of the applicable vintage
                year, in multiples of tens (10) or hundreds (100) GHG credits, desired at that price.

        IV.H.2. Each offer will consist of a price and the quantity of GHG credits of the applicable vintage
                year, in multiples of tens (10) or hundreds (100) GHG credits, available for sale at that
                price.

        IV.H.3. Each bidder may submit multiple bids for each vintage year of GHG credits.

        IV.H.4. Each offeror may submit multiple offers for each vintage year of GHG credits.

        IV.H.5. Beginning with the highest bid price, bids from each bidder will be considered in declining
                order by price.




                                                                                                          35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        IV.H.6. Beginning with the lowest offer price, offers from each offeror will be considered in
                ascending order by price.

        IV.H.7. The auction administrator will develop a Division-approved protocol for determining which
                GHG credits are exchanged and at what price through the auction, which will be every
                GHG credit for which a bid price exceeds or is equal to an offer price associated with the
                GHG credit considered in the order prescribed in Sections IV.H.5 and IV.H.6 offered into
                the auction.

                IV.H.7.a.        The protocol, through the single auction settlement price, must ensure
                        that no bidder pays more per GHG credit than the bidder bid for a particular GHG
                        credit, and no offeror receives less per GHG credit than the offeror offered for a
                        particular GHG credit.

                IV.H.7.b.      The protocol will also provide a method for resolving tie bids and offers in
                        a reasonable and equitable manner. The protocol shall also address, in a
                        reasonable and equitable manner, circumstances where the lowest bid price
                        exceeds the offer price at that quantity of total credit sales.

                IV.H.7.c.       Under the protocol, the auction administrator will determine the auction
                        settlement price, and it will determine from which winning offeror(s) a winning
                        buyer will purchase GHG credits.

IV.I.   Additional auction. If, in the first round of the auction for any vintage year’s auction pursuant to
        Sections IV.G and IV.H, the total GHG credits sold through the auction is less than 50% of the
        total GHG credits contained cumulatively in all the offers submitted to the auction for the
        applicable vintage year, then there will be an additional auction round for any such vintage year of
        remaining GHG credits not sold in the first auction round.

        IV.I.1. Within five (5) business days after the first auction, the auction administrator shall publish
                the auction settlement price from the first round of the auction for any vintage year, the
                highest and lowest bid price, and the highest and lowest offer price, the total number of
                GHG credits offered, and the median of all bid prices and offer prices, from the initial
                auction round.

        IV.I.2. There shall only be one additional auction round. Bids and offers for the additional
                auction shall be received by the auction administrator no later than three (3) business
                days after the publication of the results of the first auction pursuant to Section IV.I.1, and
                the additional auction shall be held within five (5) business days after publication of the
                results of the first auction pursuant to Section IV.I.1.

IV.J.   Actions following auction.

        IV.J.1. Within two (2) business days following an auction or any additional auction round held
                pursuant to Section IV.I, the auction administrator will notify, by vintage year:

                IV.J.1.a.         Each winning bidder of the auction settlement price, the number of GHG
                         credits that the bidder purchased, the bidder’s total purchase cost, and to which
                         sellers of GHG credits to direct payment.

                IV.J.1.b.         Each winning offeror of the auction settlement price, the number of GHG
                         credits that the offeror sold, the offeror’s total sales revenue, and from which
                         bidders to expect payment.




                                                                                                            36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


      IV.J.2. Within fifteen (15) business days following an auction or any additional auction round
              held pursuant to Section IV.I, the auction administrator will publish the following
              information:

              IV.J.2.a.       The identity of the manufacturing stationary sources and midstream
                       segment companies that were bidders, but shall not publish the bids made by
                       such entity nor the total quantity of GHG credits purchased by such entity;

              IV.J.2.b.       The identity of the manufacturing stationary sources and midstream
                       segment companies that were offerors, but shall not publish the offers made by
                       such entity nor the total quantity of GHG credits sold by such entity;

              IV.J.2.c.        The Auction settlement price; and

              IV.J.2.d.       Aggregated or distributional information on bids, offers, and GHG credit
                       purchases.

      IV.J.3. To transfer the GHG credits sold at auction from the respective seller’s credit account to
              the respective buyer’s credit account, the seller and buyer shall provide notice to the
              Division within sixty (60) days of receiving the notification from the Division that they were
              a winning offeror or bidder requesting the GHG credits be transferred.




                                                                                                         37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission



PART E          Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.      Adopted: October 22, 2021

(Removed from Regulation Number 22 and placed in Regulation Number 27 April 20, 2023)

Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section II.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and -110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

In HB 19-1261, now codified in part at §§ 25-7-102(2) and -105(1)(e), C.R.S., the General Assembly
declared that “[c]limate change adversely affects Colorado’s economy, air quality and public health,
ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life[,]” acknowledged that “Colorado is already experiencing
harmful climate impacts[,]” and that “[m]any of these impacts disproportionately affect'' certain
disadvantaged communities. § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. The General Assembly also recognized that “[b]y
reducing greenhouse gas pollution, Colorado will also reduce other harmful air pollutants, which will, in
turn, improve public health, reduce health care costs, improve air quality, and help sustain the
environment.” § 25-7-102(2)(d), C.R.S.

Consequently, the General Assembly updated Colorado’s statewide greenhouse gas (GHG) pollution
reduction goals so as to achieve a 26% reduction of statewide GHG by 2025; 50% reduction by 2030;
and 90% reduction by 2050 as compared to 2005 levels. § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. Statewide GHG
pollution is defined as “the total net statewide anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide [(CO 2)],
methane [(CH4)], nitrous oxide [(N2O)], hydrofluorocarbons [(HFCs)], perfluorocarbons [(PFCs)], nitrogen
trifluoride [(NF3)], and sulfur hexafluoride [(SF6)] expressed as carbon dioxide equivalent [(CO2e)]
calculated using a methodology and data on radiative forcing and atmospheric persistence deemed
appropriate by the commission.” § 25-7-103(22.5), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., sets forth the framework for developing GHG abatement rules consistent with
the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. This provision grants the
Commission broad authority to regulate GHG emissions in order to accomplish these goals.

In order to evaluate the utilization of, and potential emissions reductions from, GHG best available
emission control technologies (BAECT) and best available energy efficiency practices (referred to as best
management practices or Energy BMP) in energy-intensive trade-exposed (EITE) stationary sources, the
Commission adopted in Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section II, rules governing emission control and
energy audits from these sources and requiring a five percent reduction in GHG emissions therefrom.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration
of the Act.




                                                                                                         38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


§ 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and regulations
consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. In adopting GHG
abatement strategies and implementing rules, the Commission is authorized to take into account other
relevant laws and rules to enhance efficiency and cost-effectiveness and solicit input from other state
agencies and stakeholders on the advantages of different statewide GHG pollution mitigation measures.
§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(II) and (IV), C.R.S.

Implementing rules may include regulatory strategies that incentivize development of renewable
resources and “enhance cost-effectiveness, compliance flexibility, and transparency around compliance
costs.” § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V), C.R.S. Further, in promulgating such implementing rules, the Commission is
to consider many factors, including, but not limited to: health, environmental, and air quality benefits and
costs; the relative contribution of each source or source category to statewide GHG pollution; equitable
distribution of the benefits of compliance; issues related to the beneficial use of electricity to reduce GHG
emissions; and whether greater or more cost-effective emission reductions are available through program
design. § 25-7-105(1)(e)(VI), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to require energy-intensive, trade-exposed
[(EITE)] stationary sources, “to execute an energy and emission control audit, according to criteria
established by the [C]ommission, of the source’s operations every five years through at least 2035.” The
intent of the audit is to determine whether covered sources are employing “best available emission control
technologies for [GHG] emissions [(GHG BAECT)] and best available energy efficiency practices [(Energy
BMP)]”.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S., adopted in House Bill 21-1266, directs the Commission to “require a five
percent reduction in the [GHG] emissions associated with [EITE] stationary sources that currently employ
[GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs], as determined by the Commission, pursuant to [§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX),
C.R.S.].”

§ 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission “maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and [promulgating] such [a] combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to
carry out that program.” § 25-7-109(1), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to adopt and promulgate
emission control regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for each type of
facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of air pollutants. An
“emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its terms is applicable to a specified
type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution
emitted from such type of facility, process, or activity. . . .” § 25-7-103(11), C.R.S. Emission control
regulations may pertain to any chemical compound including GHG pollution. See § 25-7-109(2)(c), C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission adopted Regulation Number 22, Part B, Section II to give effect to the requirements of
§§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX) and (XII)(B), C.R.S., and to further the reduction of statewide GHG pollution
consistent with § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S., as applicable to EITE stationary sources.

§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to require EITE stationary sources, “to execute
an energy and emission control audit, according to criteria established by the [C]ommission, of the
source’s operations every five years through at least 2035.” The intent of the audit is to determine
whether covered sources are employing GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs. The last audit shall occur in the
year 2037.




                                                                                                             39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


The audit and GHG emission reduction requirements contained in Part B, Section II are applicable only to
stationary sources that principally engage in defined manufacturing activities and have direct GHG
emissions equal to or greater than 50,000 tons CO2e per year as reported under 40 CFR, Part 98 and/or
Part A of this Regulation Number 22. Based on 2019 data, there are only four stationary sources meeting
these requirements: EVRAZ Rocky Mountain Steel’s mill in Pueblo, with reported GHG emissions of
305,674 tons CO2e; CEMEX Construction Materials South’s Lyons Cement Plant, with reported GHG
emissions of 268,643 tons CO2e; GCC Rio Grande’s cement manufacturing plant in Pueblo, with
reported GHG emissions of 743,403 tons CO2e; and Holcim-Lafarge’s cement plant in Florence, with
reported GHG emissions of 985,222 tons CO2e.

The fifth highest GHG emission sources in one of these enumerated manufacturing activities reported
GHG emissions of approximately 27,000 tons CO2e in 2019.The four EITE stationary sources over
50,000 tons CO2e per year in 2019 remained the only sources over this threshold in 2020 as well. It is
notable that, based on 2019 reported data, these four stationary sources contribute approximately 54% of
Colorado industrial and manufacturing sector’s GHG emissions. Accordingly, this emissions threshold
guarantees that the state’s largest EITE sources of GHG emissions are employing GHG BAECT and
Energy BMPs in their manufacturing processes while appropriately limiting the regulatory burden on
smaller sources.

Critical to the success of the GHG BAECT and Energy BMP audit program is the selection of sufficiently
rigorous audit protocols and qualified auditors. Accordingly, Section II.C.2. and the associated definitions
in Section II.B. establish the minimum qualifications for the auditor and audit team and the criteria and
processes by which the audits are to be performed. Under Section II.C.2.a.(v)(A), the Division can reject
an auditor if the auditor has a previous or existing relationship with the source that is so pervasive that the
auditor would be unable to conduct the audit in an unbiased and independent manner. The Division
should consider the extent to which the auditor has advocated on behalf of the EITE stationary source
before the Commission; whether the relationship is currently or recently pervasive, compared to a
relationship primarily in the past; whether the auditor has primarily acted as an advocate for the EITE
stationary source as opposed to a scientific or technical advisor; and whether the work conducted on
behalf of the EITE stationary source would, in any way, inhibit the auditor’s ability to conduct an
independent and unbiased audit.

Prior to executing an audit, the EITE stationary source must submit to the Division for its review and
approval of the audit plan, which identifies the audit scope, the audit team and any standards or protocols
planned for use in the audit. The Division’s review should ensure that the plan is sufficiently rigorous and
meets or exceeds national and/or international standards for such audits. Examples of sufficiently
rigorous accounting and audit protocols include, but are not necessarily limited to, the GHG Protocol’s
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (more information available at
https://ghgprotocol.org/corporate-standard) and the International Organization for Standardization’s (ISO)
14064 and 50001 series (more information available at https://www.iso.org/home.htm).

As set forth in Section II.C.2., the energy and emissions control audit will analyze GHG BAECT for the
EITE stationary source’s emissions units that emit the top 80% of the stationary source’s GHG emissions,
and any individual emissions source that represents more than 2% of the emissions from the EITE
stationary source. This audit scope is determined by the Division to be broad enough to capture all GHG
emission sources at the EITE stationary source except for those considered “de minimis” and provide for
a thorough audit of the emissions at the facility.

The Energy BMP audit will assess all emission units that account for 80% of the source’s energy
consumption. This scope ensures that the audit captures the largest emitting and energy consuming
emissions units and that the majority of the EITE stationary source’s emissions are examined. It is
expected that there may be overlap between these two scopes, which is addressed in Section
II.C.3.a.(ii)(A)(1).




                                                                                                            40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Section II.C.3. establishes the audit reporting requirements and detailed steps for the GHG BAECT and
Energy BMP analyses. These analyses are conducted on a case-by-case basis for the EITE stationary
source under review and incorporate certain objective criteria for the auditor and Division to consider. The
GHG BAECT analysis and prioritization process will consider technical feasibility of the control for the
stationary source, the estimated emission reductions realized with each measure, cost-effectiveness and
environmental, economic, and energy impacts. Additionally, consideration should be given to other
factors such as existing facility permit limits, limits and emissions data available for similar operations, and
air pollution co-benefits to local communities.

Under Section II.C.3.a.(i)., the control technologies and strategies considered during the GHG BAECT
analysis should consider fuel switching, waste to heat options, strategic energy management (SEM)
options and carbon capture and underground storage or utilization (CCUS). In evaluating fuel-switching
as a control technology, the source should consider switching from coal and petroleum coke to a lower-
carbon fuel. In evaluating waste to heat options, the source should consider changing raw material inputs
in production processes. In evaluating waste to heat options, the source should consider preheating and
heat re-use. The Commission understands that certain of these technologies may not yet be ready for
employment as GHG BAECT or Energy BMPs at the stationary sources and expects them to be
evaluated for technical feasibility if they are “available.”

The cost-effectiveness evaluation will include the full lifetime of the measure under consideration and all
“net levelized” costs to account for costs and costs avoided—or benefits—that may result from adopting a
particular control or efficiency measure. These factors are described in further detail at Section
II.C.3.a.(i)(D) for GHG BAECT and II.C.3.a.(ii)(A)(4) for Energy BMPs and should include changes in the
annual costs resulting from the control technology/method including energy costs, operations and
maintenance costs, productivity (e.g. increased production rate or reduced down-time), product quality
(e.g. improved quality or reduced rate of rejects/bad batches). As detailed in Part B, Section II.C.3.a.(i)(E)
for GHG BAECT and Section II.C.3.a.(ii)(A)(5) for Energy BMPs, measures identified in the audit as
technically feasible cannot then be eliminated as cost-prohibitive if the cost-effectiveness of the measure
is equal to or less than the avoided social cost of GHGs. Further, any direct or indirect energy, economic
and environmental impacts for each potential GHG control measure is to be considered. Economic
considerations may include a comparison to direct competitors and international markets for the EITE
source’s final product (i.e. steel or cement). Environmental considerations should include any benefits or
detriments that may result from a particular measure. Energy considerations should include direct and
indirect energy efficiency benefits or detriments, including changes in demand for offsite electric
generation.

The social cost of GHG’s cost-effectiveness comparison mechanism ensures that sufficient weight is
afforded to the full spectrum of climate impacts from GHG emissions that could be controlled through
technically feasible means. As set forth in Part B, Section II.B.41, the social cost of greenhouse gases to
be used aligns with that established in § 25-7-110.5(4)(f), C.R.S., through the adoption of House Bill 21-
1266. The social cost of GHGs to be used in each GHG BAECT and Energy BMP audit must be
consistent with this definition and the Division will review the social cost of GHGs used in the audit
recommendations to ensure the values are correctly calculated. Using the social cost of GHGs is an
appropriate, objective measure for evaluating potential costs avoided when analyzing the “cost-
prohibitiveness” of effective, technically feasible control measures and balancing that against other
environmental, energy, or economic impacts, such as competitiveness.

This balancing serves to recognize the externalities resulting from GHG emissions that could be avoided
through the use of potentially costly control measures and the limited ability of EITE sources to implement
those measures if it would render them uncompetitive in the marketplace and therefore risk unintended
consequences, including GHG leakage. Further, Section II.C.3.a(i)(B)(1) sets forth the Commission’s
intent that EITE stationary sources will consider and fully evaluate the possibility of employing CCUS or
utilization as a control measure for any emissions unit with direct emissions of 100,000 tons CO2e and
provide that analysis to the Division at least every five-year audit cycle.




                                                                                                             41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


The analysis must go beyond a superficial examination of whether other similar facilities have
successfully employed these technologies and must look at the state of the technology and whether it can
be successfully employed at the source under review. If it is technically possible to employ these
technologies, they must then be evaluated for other factors such as cost-effectiveness and other direct or
indirect impacts, like competitiveness in the marketplace.

The intent of this assessment is to objectively and rationally uncover the strengths and weaknesses of
CCUS technology at the facility. The assessment should include economic and technical issues
associated with carbon capture technology at the specific facility. A feasibility analysis is expressly not
required by this rule, but if a facility has conducted a full feasibility analysis within the last 5 years, that
information will satisfy the requirement to provide the information in Section II.C.3.a.(i)(B)(1). In
subsequent audit cycles, these reports can be updated instead of recreated. In the interest of regulatory
efficiency, as an alternative to conducting an Energy BMP audit under Sections II.C.2. and 3, the EITE
stationary source will be determined to have conducted a qualifying audit and be currently employing
Energy BMPs if the stationary source is certified under the EPA Energy Star Program or is registered to
the ISO 50001 - standard for energy management. This alternative pathway was adopted because the
underlying programs examine and audit the facility’s performance as a whole, and are equally or more
rigorous and thorough than the Energy BMP audit contemplated in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX)(A), C.R.S. The
Federal Energy Star Program is a widely accepted “benchmarking” program managed by EPA and
requires annual certification that the facility is sufficiently efficient (reaches a score of 75 or higher out of
100).

More information available at: https://www.energystar.gov/industrial_plants/earn-recognition/plant-
certification

ISO 50001 is the internationally recognized energy management system developed by the International
Organization for Standards which requires certification every 3 years.

More information available at: https://www.iso.org/iso/iso_50001_energy_management_systems.pdf

Both certifications are appropriate alternative means of demonstrating Energy BMP employment as they
require rigorous evaluation of an industrial facility’s energy performance and the employment of best
available energy practices through either benchmarking in the case of Energy Star or certification to a
specific set of requirements for holistic energy management of the facility, in the case of ISO 50001.If the
EITE stationary source is not certified under EPA’s Energy Star Program or ISO 50001, the EITE
stationary source must conduct an Energy BMP audit pursuant to Section II.C.2. and 3.

The GHG BAECT and Energy BMP Recommendation

As described in Section II.C.3.a.(iii), the auditor’s recommendation must include: (1) The auditor’s
recommendation on the most effective technology or strategy or suite of control technologies as
determined under Section II.C.3.a.; (2) a list of all control measures with levelized costs less than or equal
to $0 as determined in Section II.C.3.a.(i)(D); and (3) recommendations on options that provide greater
pollution reduction co-benefits to communities surrounding the EITE stationary source.

The GHG BAECT and Energy BMP recommendation in the audit report serves as the foundation for the
GHG BAECT and Energy BMP determination to be made by the Division and ultimately finalized by the
Commission. This recommendation consists of the technologies identified through the audit process that
would be considered “best” to control and reduce GHG emissions from the emissions units included in the
audit scope. The recommendation is documented in the audit report. The GHG BAECT recommendation
may be a single technology or reduction measure for the emission unit or a suite of technologies or
measures if multiple measures are able to achieve greater reductions and are the same or similar cost-
effectiveness.




                                                                                                                42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


This approach creates potential for a greater reduction at the same or similar cost to the EITE stationary
source, as well as opportunities for increased consideration and inclusion of technologies or measures
that have significant co-benefits. The energy BMP recommendation will be issued as a list of the most
effective energy efficiency measures for the EITE stationary source for the energy consumption sources
included in the audit scope. Both the GHG BAECT and energy BMP recommendations will include a list
of measures that have a levelized cost of equal to or less than $0 for the Division’s consideration.

The GHG BAECT and Energy BMP recommendation will document the total cumulative GHG emissions
intensity rate for all emission units included in the audit scope. This will be calculated by identifying each
emissions unit’s annual GHG emissions per final product from the EITE source then summing all audited
emission unit intensity rates for a total GHG BAECT and Energy BMP GHG emissions intensity rate for
the EITE stationary source. If any energy efficiency measure achieves additional GHG reductions for the
facility it shall be included in the GHG BAECT emission intensity rate per final product of the EITE
stationary source.

The audit report must also show the calculations and recommendation for the total mass emissions from
emission units that were not included in the audit scope. This number is integral to the annual emissions
limit calculation for each EITE stationary source because the emissions limitation must include all
emissions from the facility.

The GHG BAECT and Energy BMP Intensity Rate Determination

The Division will analyze and review the audit report’s GHG BAECT and Energy BMP intensity rate
recommendations and associated analyses for all emission units included in the audit scope and make a
final recommendation to the Commission to establish the GHG BAECT and Energy BMP GHG emissions
intensity rate for the EITE stationary source. The Commission may ask questions, require additional
information, or grant approval to the Division-determined rate for the facility. The Division will strive to
incorporate these briefings into existing briefings or proceedings before the Commission.

After receiving the audit report, the Division’s determination will be based on the audit recommendation
and the Division may select either the top control identified or a suite of controls that meet certain,
enumerated criteria. The Division’s GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs determination for each emissions unit
or energy-consuming source within the audit scope will include: (1) The specific control or suite of controls
selected as GHG BAECT (Section II.d.1.b.) and Energy BMPs (Section II.D.1.c.); (2) the final GHG
BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate for the EITE stationary source (Section II.D.1.b.(iv)); and (3), in
addition to any controls selected as GHG BAECT and/or Energy BMPs, all controls found to have a net
levelized neutral cost over five (5) years from operational date, unless doing so would impose an
unreasonable burden to the EITE stationary source as determined by the Division and based upon
findings in the audit report (Sections II.D.1.b.(ii) and II.d.1.c.(ii)).

The GHG BAECT and Energy BMP intensity rate is determined from the GHG BAECT analysis for each
piece of GHG emitting equipment to calculate a cumulative GHG BAECT and energy BMP Intensity Rate
for the facility. This GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate represents a single, cumulative rate for
all GHG emitting equipment included in the audit scope, for both GHG BAECT and energy BMPs. This
intensity rate does not include any GHG emitting equipment not included in the audit scope.

The calculation is as follows:

        GHG BAECT & Energy BMP Intensity Rate Determination = Σ (CO2e per tons of facility product
        for each emission unit in audit scope)




                                                                                                            43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Non-GHG BAECT Emissions Calculation

During the audit, the mass total of GHG emissions from the GHG emitting equipment that was not
included in the audit scope, or “Non-GHG BAECT emissions,” shall be determined. Non-GHG BAECT
emissions are calculated by subtracting the reported emissions from units evaluated for GHG BAECT
from the facility annual emissions at the time of the first audit. Once reviewed and approved by the
Division and Commission, this mass total will remain fixed. This number will be used in calculating the
annual emissions limitation for each EITE stationary source.

The calculation is as follows:

        Non-GHG BAECT Emissions = Total direct emissions from the most recent year reported -
        (reported emissions from the units evaluated for GHG BAECT)

Annual Emissions Limitation Determination

The annual emissions limit must consider all GHG emissions from the EITE stationary source. The direct
GHG emitting units that were not included in the audit scope must be included in calculating the limit.
Therefore, the GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate determined by the Division must be converted
to mass by using the year’s production total. This is done by multiplying the units of production for the
EITE stationary source for the year, by the GHG BAECT and energy BMP intensity rate. This results in a
mass emissions total which represents the mass emissions from the facility operating all GHG BAECT
and energy BMPs during that year. The Non-GHG BAECT emissions are then added to this total,
resulting in a mass-based emission total for the EITE stationary source. This is then multiplied by 95% in
order to affect the 5% reduction required by statute, the end result of which is the EITE stationary
source’s “annual emission limit” for the year under review. Calculation of and compliance with this annual
emissions limitation is required beginning in the third year after the audit year, onward. The five percent
reduction must be achieved in addition to any subsequent lower GHG BAECT and Energy BMP intensity
level determined for the EITE stationary source.

The calculation is as follows:

        Annual Emission Limit for Compliance Year in tons CO2e = (((GHG BAECT & Energy BMP
        Intensity Rate Determination) * (Compliance Year Facility Product)) + (Non-GHG BAECT
        Determination)) * 0.95

        Compliance Year Facility Product = tons of final product reported to Division by EITE Stationary
        Source

This calculation links the mass based number to total production and is appropriate for EITE industries.
This is a unique set of industries, where there is the potential for “leakage”- that is, for production to move
to other locations outside of Colorado, and because of this, state statute specifically treats EITE industries
distinctly from other GHG emitting industries. This mass based approach to production may not be
appropriate for the industrial sector as a whole or other sectors. This approach gives effect to § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(XIII)(B), C.R.S., because it would be consistent with the requirements of § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX)
and would affect a 5% reduction in GHG emissions “associated with [EITE] sources that currently employ
[GHG BAECT] and [Energy BMPs], as determined by the [C]ommission....” Pertinent to these reduction
requirements, where an EITE source is employing GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs, § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX)
limits the Commission’s ability to “impose a direct non-administrative cost on the source directly
associated with at least [95%] of the source’s [GHG] emissions attributable to manufacturing a good in
the state[.]” § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX)(A), C.R.S. Thus, in order to give effect to this limitation and the
emissions reduction required in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII)(B), the 5% reduction requirements must apply to
GHG emissions “associated with the [EITE] sources” and “attributable to manufacturing a good in the
state.”




                                                                                                            44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Use of the emissions limitation approach set forth in GEMM for EITE sources accomplishes this suite of
legislative directives. It requires EITE sources to reduce GHG emissions “attributable to manufacturing a
good in the state by 5%.” It does not impose non-administrative costs on the other 95% of GHG
emissions from the source. This provides the EITE sources flexibility to mitigate the costs of the required
reductions and provides an incentive to improve efficiency and reduce emissions.

Importantly, it accomplishes all this while allowing EITE sources to adjust production levels based on
market forces and meet demand with an annual mass emissions limitation at a GHG intensity of 5%
below that accomplished through the employment of GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs without requiring
the source to reduce production to accomplish these reductions. This balances the need for substantial
and lasting GHG emissions reductions from EITE sources while recognizing the treatment afforded these
particular sources by the General Assembly.

Annual Emission Limit Compliance

Pursuant to Sections II.E.1.b. and II.F.2., EITE stationary sources are required no later than the third year
after each audit to achieve and maintain an additional mass-based five percent GHG emission reduction
below emissions that would be achieved through the employment of GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs,
unless an interim emission rate is established under Section II.E.1.c. To demonstrate compliance, EITE
stationary sources must submit an annual compliance report with the information set forth in Section
II.G.1., including the previous year’s GHG emissions; units of product produced; and the GHG BAECT
and energy BMP intensity rate determination. The EITE stationary sources must also maintain records for
10 years.

Compliance Pathways

To give effect to the legislative directive § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII)(B), C.R.S., and in accordance with the
guidance concerning implementing rules in §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(II), (V), and (VI), C.R.S., in Section II.F.1.c.
the Commission provides three pathways to achieve the required emission intensity rate. This includes
any one or combination of: direct on-site reductions (Section II.F.1.a.(i)); surrendering reduction credits
created by GHG reductions at other regulated sources (Section II.F.1.a.(ii)); and utilization of retail
distributed generation or net metering renewable projects that reduce GHG emissions from the facilities'
energy use for which RECs have been retired (Section II.F.1.a.(iii)). For the utilization of renewable
energy, the RECs retired must be from Colorado and retired in the year generated. Regardless of the
compliance pathway utilized, the EITE stationary source must assure that any significant co-benefits are
achieved at the EITE stationary source pursuant to Section II.F.1.b.

Utilization of Renewable Energy Credits for compliance cannot exceed the annual generation of the
distributed generation system and cannot be used for compliance with the Annual Emissions Limitation
for more than the required 5% reduction, nor can they be counted toward the 20% emissions reduction
required to exempt the source from further 5% reduction requirements, as those are to be based on direct
emissions reductions from the facility.

The megawatt hour (MWh) of distributed generation in avoided GHG emission value shall be based on
the relevant electricity provider’s reported annual system emissions, calculated in a manner consistent
with the Division’s AQCC-approved Clean Energy Plan guidance, and be adjusted annually to account for
the changing emissions profile of the generation fleet of the source’s electricity supplier. This is because a
system MWh avoided today may be more emissions intensive than a system MWh avoided in the future.

The Commission recognizes that large capital-intensive emissions reduction projects such as large-scale
carbon capture, utilization, and storage may take an extended time to complete. The Commission directs
staff to develop a proposal to allow an alternative compliance pathway with an extended timeline, with
sufficient guardrails to ensure that cumulative GHG emissions reductions will be greater than those
achievable with short-term measures, and that communities near the facility will realize appropriate co-
benefits.




                                                                                                           45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Points of Compliance

There are a number of discrete requirements with which the covered sources must demonstrate
compliance over the course of each audit cycle. These include:

     •   Submission of the Audit Plan at least 120 days prior to commencing the audit (Section II.C.2.);

     •   Submission of the Audit Report no later than December 31, 2022 and every five years thereafter
         (Section II.C.1.a.);

     •   Submission and execution of the Compliance action plan within 120 days of the Commission’s
         approval of the GHG BAECT and Energy BMP determination (Section II.F.1.);

     •   Compliance with annual emission limits established in the GHG BAECT and Energy BMP
         determination by the third year after each audit year (Sections II.E.1.b. and II.F.2); and

     •   Submission of annual compliance certification by May 1 beginning in 2026 (Section II.G.1).

Mechanisms for Assuring Compliance

GEMM is generally enforceable as a provision of part 1 of the Act, see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX) (requiring
EITE stationary sources to conduct GHG BAECT and Energy BMP audits), and as an emission control
regulation promulgated by the Commission. See § 25-7-115(1)(a), C.R.S. Accordingly, noncompliance
with GEMM is subject to the injunctive and civil penalty authority of the Division and Commission. See §§
25-7-121 and -122, C.R.S. In addition to these general authorities, f § II.K.1.a. provides an alternative
means of addressing noncompliance with the emission reduction requirements of GEMM where the EITE
stationary source is utilizing GHG credits to comply. Section II.K.1.a. provides the source an opportunity
to rectify any shortcomings in emission reduction requirements under GEMM by surrendering three GHG
credits for every ton emitted by the source in excess of its annual emission limit.

Co-benefits

The treatment of co-benefits in the evaluation and determination of co-benefits in the audit and
subsequent effects on the Section II.F. compliance pathways and is affected through three mechanisms:

1.       In Section II.C.3.a.(i)(G) for BAECT and Section II.C.3.a.(ii)(A)(7) for BMPs, the auditor must
         evaluate and document expected air quality co-benefits of any BAECT or BMP measure
         assessed;

2.       In Section II.C.3.a.(iii)(A)(4) for BAECT and Section II.C.3.a.(iii)(B)(3) for BMPs, the auditor’s
         recommendation must include as a BAECT and/or BMP the option that provide greater co-
         benefits to the surrounding communities where the top options are otherwise comparable in terms
         of cost-effectiveness; and

3.       In Section II.F.1.b., where an EITE source complies with the annual emission limit, it must also
         achieve the co-benefits to the local community where “the measure(s) determined to be GHG
         BAECT and/or energy BMPs for an emission unit also are anticipated to result in significant co-
         benefits[.]”

As to this final point, the express intent is to ensure that any localized co-benefits that would be realized
through implementation of the specific BAECT or BMPs identified in the audit are still realized for the local
community, regardless of which compliance pathway the source utilizes. This is explicitly intended to
benefit local communities and particularly those disproportionately impacted by climate change and other
air quality issues and is in response to input from communities and local governments.




                                                                                                            46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


The quantification of any co-benefits under Sections II.C.3.a.(i)(G) and II.C.3.a.(ii)(A)(7) must include
establishment of a baseline for the relevant pollutant(s) and quantification of net co-benefits from the
control technologies and strategies below or above the baseline. The baseline shall be determined based
on the best available information, including monitored emissions, if available, or reported emissions of the
relevant pollutant(s) at the time of the audit.

GHG Credit Accounting and Trading Program for EITE Stationary Sources

§ 25-7-105(1)(f)(I)(C), C.R.S., defines “trading program” as “a commission-adopted regulatory program
that allows for regulated sources to meet their greenhouse gas compliance obligations under subsection
(1)(e) of this section through the creation, purchase, acquisition, or exchange of, or other commercial-type
transaction involving, a GHG credit with other regulated sources.” § 25-7-105(1)(f)(I)(A), C.R.S., defines
“regulated source” as “a source of [GHG] that is subject to a rule adopted by the [C]ommission under [§
25-7-105(1)(e)] that imposes specific and quantifiable [GHG] reduction obligations upon that source or
group of sources.”

An accounting and “trading program” for GHG credits will be developed by the Division, which can be
utilized by EITE sources covered by GEMM. The trading program will serve as one pathway to complying
with GHG emissions limitations and will allow trading of GHG reductions while also ensuring co-benefits
of reducing localized harmful air pollutants at the EITE sources. This is achieved by separately
determining what reductions in harmful air pollutants will be achieved at the source through the use of
GHG BAECT and requiring that these emission reductions are achieved regardless of how the EITE
complies to reduce its GHG emissions.

GHG credits issued by the Division will serve as the mechanism for the trading program. These GHG
credits must be utilized for the trading program and represent a GHG emission reduction of one metric
ton of CO2e in Colorado, and be real, additional, quantifiable, permanent, verifiable and enforceable. The
Act authorizes the Commission to adopt this program through its general rulemaking authority, its
authority to adopt implementing rules for GHG pollution reduction, and specific authority to adopt an
accounting and trading program as established under House Bill 21-1266.See §§ 25-7-106(1) (granting
the Commission “maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality control program and [the
authority to] promulgate such combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out
that program”); -105(1)(e)(II) (granting the Commission broad authority to adopt implementing rules to
affect GHG emissions reductions); -105(1)(e)(V) (implementing rules for GHG reductions should enhance
cost-effectiveness and compliance flexibility and transparency around compliance costs); -
105(1)(e)(IX)(A) (EITE sources should be provided “a pathway to obtain equivalent lower-cost emission
reductions at other regulated sources to satisfy their compliance objectives”); and -105(1)(f) (granting the
Commission authority to establish GHG credit trading between “regulated sources,” and specifically to
implement § 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX)).

The program accords with the Commission’s authority by allowing EITE sources pathways to accomplish
reduction requirements at other regulated sources using an accounting and trading program through
which the Division can track emission reductions and trades, prevent double-counting of GHG emission
reductions, and identify EITE sources that adversely affect disproportionately impacted communities
through emissions of locally harmful air pollutants. Importantly, the accounting and trading program
applies only to EITE stationary sources subject to the audit and GHG emission reductions in GEMM.

However, given the authority granted to the Commission in § 25-7-105(1)(f), it is possible that this
program may serve as a model for a future, more broadly applicable GHG credit trading for the industrial
manufacturing sector. Should that arise, the Commission may consider how EITE sources should be
incorporated into the broader program at that time. The current approach recognizes the directive in
statute that EITE sources be provided “a pathway to obtain equivalent lower-cost emission reductions at
other regulated sources to satisfy their compliance obligations” while also recognizing EITE sources
would initially be the only “regulated sources” as that term is defined, and therefore the only sources
eligible to participate in the trading program until additional GHG sources in Colorado meet this definition.




                                                                                                           47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Based on these tenets, Section II.I. sets out provisions establishing an accounting system to track GHG
reduction credits. These provisions task the Division with establishing the accounting system. An EITE
source seeking eligibility to trade credits must first apply and have the Division create a compliance
account for the EITE source. This application for an account must be submitted to the Division within 30
days after approval of the EITE source’s BAECT and Energy BMP determination. Any EITE source the
Division determines adversely affects disproportionately impacted communities through emission of
locally harmful air pollutants must be identified by the Division in the accounting system.

Only GHG credits meeting the definition set forth in Section II.B.22 may be traded in the accounting
system. Pursuant to this definition a “GHG credit” represents a GHG emission reduction of one metric ton
of CO2e that is real, additional, quantifiable, permanent, verifiable and enforceable. To track such credits,
the Division is directed to assign each credit a unique identifier (such as a serial number) and, as further
directed in Section II.F.1.a.(ii), only issued in the tracking system after the underlying emission reduction
has been demonstrated.

Sections II.G. and II.H. are designed to ensure that EITE stationary sources conduct regular reporting to
demonstrate compliance with the audit requirements in Section II.C. and emissions reduction
requirements in Section II.F. and maintain all pertinent records. The Commission determined that the
audit procedures and compliance requirements set out in Part B, Section II, establish the criteria by which
the Commission can determine, on a five-year basis, whether EITE stationary sources are employing
GHG BAECT and energy BMP. The Commission has determined the audit process is cost-effective and
reasonable to achieve these ends.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)     Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
        requirements;

        EITE Entities are required to report GHG emissions under existing federal regulations. Some
        EITE stationary sources may be required to conduct a GHG “best available control technology” or
        “BACT” analysis as part of a Prevention of Significant Deterioration permitting action unrelated to
        the requirements of these rules. However, there are no current federal regulations requiring these
        entities to conduct GHG BAECT and energy audits or to reduce GHG emissions as required
        under this rule.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
        whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

        EITE Entities are required to report GHG emissions under existing federal and state regulations.
        Some EITE stationary sources may be required to conduct a GHG “best available control
        technology” or “BACT” analysis as part of a Prevention of Significant Deterioration permitting
        action unrelated to the requirements of these rules. Those BACT evaluations are technology-
        based. However, there are no current federal regulations requiring these entities to conduct GHG
        BAECT and energy audits or reduce GHG emissions as required under this rule.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and
        situation was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;




                                                                                                           48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        Federal BACT analyses under PSD permitting are separate and distinct from the GHG BAECT
        analysis adopted in this Part B, Section II. in both its scope and purpose. Under federal PSD
        permitting, GHG emissions cannot alone trigger a BACT analysis, though the permitting authority
        may evaluate GHG controls for “anyway” sources that trigger PSD permitting requirements by
        exceeding other criteria pollutant thresholds. See Air Regul. Grp. v. E.P.A., 573 U.S. 302, 333–34
        (2014). This Part B, Section II. in contrast is adopted pursuant to specific legislative directive to
        evaluate GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs; there are no applicable federal requirements in this
        regard.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
        in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within
        or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet
        more stringent requirements later;

        This section gives meaningful effect to §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX) and (XIII), C.R.S., and provides
        regulated entities flexibility to identify and cost-effectively employ emissions control technologies
        BAECT and energy efficiency measures to reduce GHG emissions so long as they constitute
        GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs. Regulated entities that demonstrate effective employment of
        BAECT and Energy BMPs are afforded certainty with respect to direct non-administrative costs
        associated with ninety-five percent of the source’s GHG emissions and control over the means of
        otherwise reducing GHG emissions to comply with § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII)(B), C.R.S.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements;

        There are no applicable federal requirements that create any timing issues. Part B, Section II.
        allows regulated entities a reasonable time to comply with the audit, any resulting compliance
        action plan, and GHG emission reduction requirements and allows opportunities for alternative
        compliance.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
        margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        Part B, Section II. affords regulated entities significant flexibility for meeting GHG emission
        reduction requirements. Furthermore, EITE entities are afforded the ability to affect required
        reductions through alternative compliance measures where needed. As such, regulated entities
        are afforded a reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth. The three
        pathways provided for EITE stationary sources to accomplish the 5% emissions reductions in
        Sections II.E. and II.F. and as required under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XII)(B), C.R.S., provide affected
        sources flexibility to accommodate uncertainty and future growth.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the
        requirements for various sources;

        All qualifying EITE entities are equally subject to the audit and action plan requirements and the
        audits account for the specifics of the EITE stationary source in question. Likewise, all regulated
        entities are afforded opportunities to select and apply BAECT and energy BMPs that work for the
        specific source and account for environmental, economic, and energy concerns. Furthermore, the
        five percent GHG emission reduction requirements in Sections II.E. and II.F. are equally applied
        to all qualifying EITE stationary sources. Where available, opportunities to maximize co-benefits
        to communities near or around the stationary source should be prioritized.




                                                                                                           49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


(VIII)   Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

         The General Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and
         directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across all sectors of our economy. Colorado has
         established specific GHG reduction goals. Reductions not achieved in one sector will require
         measures in other sectors of the economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals.

         However, the General Assembly further provided requirements that energy-intensive and trade-
         exposed entities demonstrate use of BAECT and energy BMPs through an audit process and
         limited the Commission’s ability to impose additional reductions on at least ninety-five percent of
         the source’s GHG emissions where such measures are effectively employed. See § 25-7-
         105(1)(e)(IX), C.R.S. With respect to the 5 percent emission reductions required of EITE entities
         employing GHG BAECT and energy BMPs under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII)(B), C.R.S., any emission
         reductions not timely realized from these entities would, in turn, require greater emission
         reductions from other sources in the industrial and manufacturing sector in order to achieve the
         twenty percent sector-wide requirements by 2030 set forth in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII)(A), C.R.S.

(IX)     Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements
         that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling
         reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;

         Part B, Section II. gives effect to the General Assembly’s adoption of 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX), C.R.S.,
         which includes a requirement for energy-intensive trade-exposed entities to execute energy and
         emission control audits that are not required under federal regulations. This is a compelling
         reason, as these audits will inform the state’s strategies and future regulations to accomplish the
         statewide GHG pollution reduction goals and address the impacts of climate change set forth in §
         25-7-102(2), C.R.S. and sector-specific emission reductions under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S.

(X)      Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

         Part B, Section II. does not require the use of any specific technology but instead serves as a
         mechanism to evaluate the control technologies and energy efficiency practices regulated entities
         are employing and to determine the effectiveness of those measures already in use. The GHG
         BAECT and Energy BMP audits are used to conduct this evaluation and must include analyses
         of, but not necessarily implementation of, transformative technologies. All GHG BAECT and
         energy BMP determinations will be based on demonstrated and available technologies.

(XI)     Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a
         potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

         This rule will enable the Commission to determine whether EITE stationary sources are
         employing GHG BAECT and Energy BMPs to effectively minimize GHG emissions from regulated
         facilities. EITE sources will be required to comply with the annual emission limits established
         pursuant to this audit process. The GHG emissions reductions from this rule are expected to help
         Colorado achieve the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S., and
         the sector-specific GHG emission reductions set forth in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. Anticipated
         reductions in co-pollutants are expected to have positive health benefits for the people of
         Colorado.




                                                                                                            50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required
        standard.

        This rule implements the statutory requirements of §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(IX) and (XIII)(B), C.R.S.
        Alternatives exist for how to accomplish these requirements, including different emission
        thresholds for qualifying entities, different standards for evaluating GHG BAECT and Energy
        BMPs, and the provision of no or differing means of alternative compliance as well as different
        timing requirements for emission reductions. The Commission determined that Part B, Section II.
        appropriately gives effect to the statutory requirements and is consistent with the statewide and
        sector-specific GHG pollution reduction goals. A no-action alternative is not available under § 25-
        7-105(1)(e), C.R.S.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
        methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information
        made available by interested parties has been considered.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction
        in GHG pollution and co-pollutants and will enable the Commission to satisfy the requirements of
        §§ 25-7-102, -105(1)(e), -106, and/or -109, C.R.S., as applicable.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about reductions in risks to
        human health and the environment that will justify the costs to government, the regulated
        community, and to the public to implement and comply with the rule.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results and reduction
        in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

II.     Adopted: July 21, 2022

(Removed from Regulation Number 22 and placed in Regulation Number 27 April 20, 2023)

Revisions to Regulation Number 22, Part B, Sections II.B.19. and II.B.25.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., et seq., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(Commission) Procedural Rules.

Basis

The Commission has incorporated by reference Regulation Number 22, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and
Energy Management for Manufacturing in Colorado, Part B, Section II.B.19. and Part B, Section II.B.25.
These sections shall be modified for the limited purpose of removing the incorporation by reference
sentence in Part B, Section II.B.19. and Part B, Section II.B.25. This correction does not change or alter
the requirements of the existing rule.




                                                                                                             51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-105(1)(b) and 25-7-109, C.R.S. authorize
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations, including emission control regulations relating to
new stationary sources, for the development of an effective air quality control program.

Purpose

Updating citation references of 40 C.F.R. Part 60 allows the Division to implement and enforce the
Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for applicable source categories. Adoption of the rules will
not impose additional requirements upon sources beyond the minimum required by federal law and may
benefit the regulated community by providing sources with up-to-date information and regulatory
certainty.

III.    Adopted: April 20, 2023

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation Number 22, the
Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts and sections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the State Air Act or
the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such as the Commission, to review their
rules and consider whether the rule is necessary; whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of
the agency or with other federal, state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain
language and is easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more
or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more flexibility, reduce
regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while maintaining its benefits; whether the
rule is implemented in an efficient and effective manner, including the requirements for the issuance of
permits and licenses; whether a cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making
agency; and whether the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state
or its residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the existing rules
should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to Regulation
Number 27.

The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four regulations: Part B became Regulation
Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number 25; Part D remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E
became Regulation Number 26. The upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program
provisions currently in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing sector
greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation Number 27.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections throughout the
regulations.




                                                                                                        52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

Additional Considerations

These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from the requirement
of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by interested parties.

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable reduction of
greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about reductions in risks to
human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction in air pollution
and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
effective manner.

IV.     Adopted: October 20, 2023

Revisions to and reorganization of Regulation Number 27.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and -110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

In House Bill 19-1261, now codified in part at §§ 25-7-102(2) and -105(1)(e), C.R.S., the General
Assembly declared that “[c]limate change adversely affects Colorado’s economy, air quality and public
health, ecosystems, natural resources, and quality of life[,]” acknowledged that “Colorado is already
experiencing harmful climate impacts[,]” and acknowledged that “[m]any of these impacts
disproportionately affect'' certain disadvantaged communities. § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. The General
Assembly also recognized that “[b]y reducing greenhouse gas pollution, Colorado will also reduce other
harmful air pollutants, which will, in turn, improve public health, reduce health care costs, improve air
quality, and help sustain the environment.” § 25-7-102(2)(d), C.R.S. Consequently, the General Assembly
updated Colorado’s statewide greenhouse gas (GHG) pollution reduction goals so as to achieve a 26%
reduction of statewide GHG by 2025; 50% reduction by 2030; 65% reduction by 2035; 75% reduction by
2040; 90% reduction by 2045; and 100% reduction by 2050, as compared to 2005 levels. Senate Bill
2023-16, 74th Gen. Assemb., 1st Reg. Sess., Sec. 8 (Colo. 2023) (amending § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S.).




                                                                                                              53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


In 2021, Colorado’s legislature adopted House Bill 21-1266 (the Environmental Justice Act), now codified
in part at § 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S. This provision grants the Commission broad authority to regulate GHG
emissions to accomplish the goals established in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. It directs the Commission to
adopt rules that reduce statewide GHG emissions from the industrial and manufacturing sector by 2030
by at least 20% below the 2015 baseline, according to the Colorado State GHG Inventory. The rules must
include protections for disproportionately impacted communities and prioritize emission reductions that
will reduce emissions of co-pollutants that adversely affect disproportionately impacted communities. The
rules must also be designed to accelerate near-term reductions and secure meaningful emission
reductions from the industrial and manufacturing sector to be realized no later than September 30, 2024.
The Commission adopted requirements for certain energy-intensive, trade-exposed (EITE) manufacturing
stationary sources in October 2021 (GEMM 1) and then adopted requirements for additional stationary
sources in the manufacturing sector in September 2023 (GEMM 2).

The Commission also restructured the regulation into the following Parts: Part A, General Provisions (fka
Part A, Sections I., II., X., and XI.); Part B, GEMM 2 Facility Requirements (new); Part C, Energy-
Intensive Trade-Exposed Stationary Source Requirements (fka Part B, Sections III. through IX.); and Part
D, Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading Requirements (fka Part B, Section IX.).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are
necessary for the proper implementation and administration of the Act.

Section 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and
regulations consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. In
adopting GHG abatement strategies and implementing rules, the Commission is authorized to take into
account other relevant laws and rules, as well as voluntary actions of local communities and the private
sector, to enhance efficiency and cost-effectiveness, and to solicit input from other state agencies and
stakeholders on the advantages of different statewide GHG pollution mitigation measures. § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(II) and (IV), C.R.S.

Implementing rules may include regulatory strategies that incentivize development of renewable
resources and “enhance cost-effectiveness, compliance flexibility, and transparency around compliance
costs.” § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V), C.R.S. Further, in promulgating such implementing rules, the Commission is
to consider many factors, including, but not limited to: health, environmental, and air quality benefits and
costs; the costs of and time necessary for compliance; the relative contribution of each source or source
category to statewide GHG pollution; equitable distribution of the benefits of compliance; issues related to
the beneficial use of electricity to reduce GHG emissions; and whether greater or more cost-effective
emission reductions are available through program design. § 25-7-105(1)(e)(VI), C.R.S.

§ 25-7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission “maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and [promulgating] such [a] combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to
carry out that program.” Section 25-7-109(1), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to adopt and
promulgate emission control regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for
each type of facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of air
pollutants. An “emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its terms is applicable to
a specified type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of controlling the extent, degree, or nature
of pollution emitted from such type of facility, process, or activity. . . .” § 25-7-103(11), C.R.S. Emission
control regulations may pertain to any chemical compound including GHG pollution. See § 25-7-109(2)(c),
C.R.S.

§§ 25-7-105(1)(b) and 25-7-109, C.R.S. authorize the Commission to adopt emission control regulations,
including emission control regulations relating to new stationary sources, for the development of an
effective air quality control program.




                                                                                                            54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

In 2021, the Commission adopted Regulation Number 27, which established requirements for certain
EITE manufacturing stationary sources (GEMM 1). The Commission then revised Regulation Number 27
to require GHG emission reductions from additional stationary sources that emit equal to or greater than
25,000 metric tons of CO2e (GEMM 2). The Commission also aligned the applicability threshold for
GEMM 1 facilities with the applicability threshold for GEMM 2 facilities, from 50,000 metric tons of CO2e
to 25,000 metric tons of CO2e, to allow for consistency in the regulatory approach.

GEMM 2 Facilities

As of the effective date of the rule, the GEMM 2 requirements set out in Part B impact 18 facilities
(covered GEMM 2 facilities) and are intended to achieve a reduction in the cumulative direct GHG
emissions from the covered GEMM 2 facilities of almost 12% by 2024 and 20% by 2030, relative to 2015
levels. The rule also applies to any other manufacturing facilities that exist as of the effective date of the
rule and emit equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e in any year following the effective date
of the rule. Apart from facilities subject to GEMM 1, the facilities covered by this rule are the
manufacturing sources with the largest annual direct GHG emissions in the State. The facilities are
defined as manufacturing operations by the North American Industrial Coding System, and have
processes at their facilities that include the mechanical, physical, or chemical transformation of materials,
substances, or components into new products. With one exception, the 18 covered GEMM 2 facilities are
not considered EITE sources.

Covered GEMM 2 Facilities GHG Reductions

The Commission adopted requirements for covered GEMM 2 facilities to achieve onsite GHG reductions
from their baseline emissions through technically feasible and economically reasonable reduction
measures such as equipment upgrades, increasing efficiency, and installation of additional controls.
Onsite carbon capture and storage (CCS) is another potential reduction measure pending the Division
establishing or adopting by reference a standardized CCS protocol(s).

For covered GEMM 2 facilities, baseline emissions were established as the higher of the facility’s 2021 or
2022 GHG emissions, subject to certain revisions to correct previous inaccuracies and certain production
capacity-related adjustments. Facilities that had increased production capacity between 2015 and 2021
by more than 30%, but which had not yet realized all of the additional production capacity through actual
production, were eligible for baseline adjustments as set forth below. The adjustment depended on the
size of the production increase, the year(s) in which the expansion occurred, production levels after the
expansion, and the GHG emissions increase estimated from the expansion. All facilities were granted
75% of their requested GHG emissions increase, except for facilities which, as of rule adoption, have
already achieved a 20% reduction compared to 2015, which were granted 100% of their requested GHG
emissions increase.

Although subject to change to correct prior data or reporting inaccuracies, as of the date of rule adoption,
the higher of 2021 or 2022 reported GHG emissions and the baselines of the covered GEMM 2 facilities
are shown below in Table 1. The figures in Table 1 rely on the 100-year global warming potentials
published in the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
Working Group 1 (see IPCC, Fifth Assessment Report,
https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/WG1AR5_Chapter08_FINAL.pdf).




                                                                                                            55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                          5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                               TABLE 1

Facility Name                               GEMM 2 facility GHG            GEMM 2 facility GHG
                                            emissions: Higher of 2021 or   baseline emissions
                                            2022 year (metric tons of      (metric tons of CO2e
                                            CO2e using AR5 GWP values)     using AR5 GWP values)

American Gypsum Company                               75,047                       75,047

Anheuser Busch Inc., Fort Collins Brewery             43,710                       43,710

Avago Technologies                                    125,339                     125,339

Carestream Health, Inc.                               34,894                       34,894

Cargill Meat Solutions                                39,588                       39,588

Front Range Energy                                    41,312                       60,369

Golden Aluminum Inc.                                  26,759                       26,759

JBS Swift Beef Company - Greeley Plant                171,101                     171,101

Leprino Foods, Greeley                                97,816                      132,878

Microchip Technology                                  168,907                     168,907

Molson Coors USA LLC - Golden Brewery                 234,938                     234,938

Natural Soda                                          49,309                       56,227

Owen-Brockway Glass Container Plant                   116,002                     116,002

Rocky Mountain Bottle Company                         76,684                       76,684

Sterling Ethanol, LLC                                 56,370                       56,370

Suncor Energy USA, Commerce City                      951,898                     951,898

Western Sugar Cooperative                             81,981                      109,141

Yuma Ethanol, LLC                                     55,500                       55,500




                                                                                                   56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


In establishing the GHG reduction criteria set forth in Part B, Section I.A., the Commission considered
each covered GEMM 2 facility’s GHG reductions since 2015 and their contribution in terms of percent
GHG emissions towards the cumulative emissions from the 18 covered GEMM 2 facilities. The resulting
percent reduction requirements are reflected in Section I.A. of Part B. The primary driver for requiring an
individual facility to reduce a certain amount was how much the facility had already reduced GHG
emissions since 2015. The reductions achieved by each facility between 2015 and the facility’s higher
reported emissions in 2021/2022 varied widely; some covered GEMM 2 facilities had reduced well over
20%, while others had increased emissions by over 100%, and many of the facilities were somewhere in
between.

The rule assigned tiered reduction requirements based on the facilities’ achieved reductions in an
equitable manner. As reflected in Tables 1 through 4 of Part B, those facilities that had achieved
significant GHG emission reductions since 2015 were assigned a lesser 2030 reduction obligation than
those that had reduced emissions by less than 20% or had increased emissions. This struck a balance
that will enable the group as a whole to achieve a 20% reduction by 2030, while requiring all facilities to
be on a downward GHG emission trajectory. As reflected in Table 5, facilities that are the larger emitters
in the group were assigned an additional percentage of reduction required, depending on their
contribution to the group’s cumulative emissions. This approach was justified because a minimal
decrease in reduction obligation for the higher emitters would have created a significant increase on the
required reductions of smaller emitting facilities.

Further, facilities with larger emissions tend to have more opportunities to reduce GHG emissions than
smaller facilities. Oftentimes facilities with larger emissions have multiple, varied emission sources for
which the facility can analyze for reduction opportunities through, for example, efficiencies and technology
improvements. The reductions in Section I.A. were calculated based on the higher of each facility’s
2021/2022 emissions and did not consider any baseline adjustment granted to any facility.

Additionally, as set forth in Part B, Sections I.A.1. through I.A.4., the Commission determined that each
covered GEMM 2 facility would be limited to its baseline emissions (subject to an exception described
below) or required to reduce an additional amount, between 1.25% and 1.75% below its baseline,
beginning in 2024. Again, the degree of any reduction required depended on how much, if at all, the
facility had already reduced emissions since 2015. The purpose of this requirement was to satisfy the
Commission’s statutory obligation to design GHG reduction rules that “accelerate near-term reductions”
and “secure meaningful reductions” from the industrial and manufacturing sector “to be realized beginning
no later than September 30, 2024.” § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S.

Applying the requirements established in Part B, Section I to the covered GEMM 2 facilities, the
Commission determined the resulting emission reduction obligations as shown in Table 2.




                                                                                                          57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                          5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


                                               TABLE 2

Facility Name                               2024–2029 GHG emissions     2030 GHG emissions
                                            reduction requirement vs.   reduction requirement vs.
                                            facility baseline (%)       facility baseline (%)

American Gypsum Company                               1.75%                        12.5%

Anheuser Busch Inc., Fort Collins Brewery             1.25%                          7%

Avago Technologies                                    0.00%                          4%

Carestream Health, Inc.                               1.75%                        12.5%

Cargill Meat Solutions                                1.75%                        12.5%

Front Range Energy                                    1.75%                        12.5%

Golden Aluminum Inc.                                  1.50%                          8%

JBS Swift Beef Company, Greeley                       1.75%                        15.5%

Leprino Foods, Greeley                                1.75%                        12.5%

Microchip Technology                                  0.00%                          4%

Molson Coors USA LLC, Golden                          0.00%                          4%

Natural Soda                                          1.50%                          8%

Owen-Brockway Glass Container Plant                   1.75%                        12.5%

Rocky Mountain Bottle Company                         1.25%                          7%

Sterling Ethanol, LLC                                 1.75%                        12.5%

Suncor Energy USA, Commerce City                      1.50%                         14%

Western Sugar Cooperative                             0.00%                          1%

Yuma Ethanol                                          1.75%                        12.5%




                                                                                                    58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Notwithstanding the above, the Commission recognized that some facilities have made significant
reductions in mass-based, direct GHG emissions since 2015. Considering this, and to provide near-term
flexibility for those specific facilities, the Commission allowed facilities that have already reduced
emissions by 20% or more since 2015 to emit up to 75% of the individual facility’s reported 2015
emissions through the year 2025, as long as the facility returns to its GEMM 2 facility baseline emissions
in 2026. If a facility continues to emit above its GEMM 2 facility baseline emissions beyond 2025, the
facility’s 2030 requirement will be increased by an amount depending on the amount of time the facility
emits beyond the GEMM 2 GHG baseline emissions. This ensures any excess emissions past 2025 are
mitigated and displaced in 2030 and beyond, eventually achieving a greater cumulative reduction over
time.

Pursuant to Part B, Section III.B, covered GEMM 2 facilities that are unable to achieve the required GHG
reductions through onsite measures can comply by retiring GHG credits. GEMM 2 facilities may generate
GHG credits by reducing GHG emissions below a facility’s 2030 GHG reduction requirement including,
beginning in 2031, through direct air capture projects, or may purchase GHG credits from other facilities.

Part B, Section I.B of the rule applies separate requirements to existing facilities that report direct GHG
emissions of equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e after the effective date of the rule. This
includes any EITE subject to the rule that exceeds the lowered 25,000 metric tons of CO2e threshold
which elects to comply with Regulation Number 27 through Part B, rather than through Part C. As of the
effective date of the rule, there was one EITE facility in Colorado, Golden Aluminum Inc., in this situation.
Golden Aluminum will be subject to the requirements established in Part B, Section I.A., unless it elects to
comply with Regulation Number 27 through Part C. The historical emissions of this facility are known and
were included in the calculations for the covered GEMM 2 facilities in the development of the GEMM 2
GHG emission reduction requirements. The GEMM 2 regulation has been drafted to assure covered
GEMM 2 facilities achieve a 20% reduction in GHG emissions compared to 2015 whether Golden
Aluminum chooses to comply with Regulation Number 27 through Part B or Part C.

Carbon Capture and Storage

Under Part B, Section III.A.1, a GEMM 2 facility may account for direct emission reductions from a carbon
capture and storage system (CCS), with capture of CO2 performed onsite at the GEMM 2 facility, for
purposes of compliance with the facility's GEMM 2 annual GHG reduction requirement in any year.
However, prior to using reductions from such systems towards a facility’s compliance, the Division must
approve a protocol applicable to such systems. The Division assessed three published protocols and one
draft protocol, along with two sets of accounting methodologies, related to CCS.

The three published protocols were issued by the American Carbon Registry (see American Carbon
Registry, Carbon Capture and Storage Projects, https://americancarbonregistry.org/carbon-
accounting/standards-methodologies/carbon-capture-and-storage-in-oil-and-gas-reservoirs), the
California Air Resource Board (see California Air Resources Board, Carbon Sequestration: Carbon
Capture, Removal, Utilization, and Storage, https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/carbon-
sequestration-carbon-capture-removal-utilization-and-storage), and the Government of Alberta, Canada
(see Alberta Government, Quantification protocol for CO2 capture and permanent storage in deep saline
aquifers, https://open.alberta.ca/publications/9780778572213).

The one draft protocol was issued by the Verified Carbon Standard (see Verified Carbon Standard, Draft
Methodology for Carbon Capture and Storage, https://verra.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CCS-
Methodology-Public-Consultation-Draft.pdf).

The two accounting methodologies were the 2006 IPCC Guidelines (see 2006 IPC Guidelines,
https://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/2_Volume2/V2_5_Ch5_CCS.pdf) and 40 CFR, Part 98
(Part 98). Additionally, the Division assessed the 2005 IPCC Special Report on CCS (see IPCC, Carbon
Dioxide Capture and Storage, https://www.ipcc.ch/report/carbon-dioxide-capture-and-storage/).




                                                                                                          59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Although certain of these protocols and methodologies showed promise for use in the context of the
Commission’s GHG reduction rules, as of the date of rule adoption, there was no existing published
protocol that could be adopted by reference, and no single accounting methodology that could be
referenced, for such use.

As such, the Commission directs the Division to establish or adopt by reference a standardized CCS
protocol or protocols in consultation with interested stakeholders and consistent with the CCUS Task
Force Subcommittee Recommendations. Any such protocol(s) must include, without limitation, the
following requirements:

1. CO2 must be captured onsite at a GEMM 2 facility. The protocol should reflect that as long as the
carbon capture is taking place onsite, the storage/sequestration need not also take place onsite.

2. CO2 captured need not be from a combustion or process emission source category as defined by 40
CFR, Part 98.

3. Sequestered Biogenic CO2 shall be counted as a negative emission.

4. Only permanent geologic sequestration in a UIC Class VI well, or other forms of permanent
sequestration is permitted.

5. CO2 captured by a GEMM 2 facility must either remain in the custody of the facility or custody transfers
must be detailed to an extent permitting the complete traceability from the point of capture to the point of
permanent sequestration as set forth in the protocol.

6. The GEMM 2 facility shall be responsible for compiling and reporting all onsite emissions as well as all
direct Scope 1 emissions attributable to the capture, conditioning, transport, and storage of CO2
regardless of whether those emissions were incurred by any downstream entity(ies).

7. Any GHG credits issued for CCS will be equal to the total annual metric tons of CO2 sequestered in
subsurface geologic formations at the facility in the reporting year as calculated using Equation RR-12 of
Subpart RR of 40 CFR, Part 98, or comparable methodology, minus the total mass of emissions, in CO2
equivalents, incurred in the capture, conditioning, and transport of the CO2 from the capture facility
through to the receiving flow meter at the sequestration well or site that would not have occurred in the
absence of the project. Emission sources and respective accounting approaches that must be accounted
for include, without limitation:

7.1. Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the combustion of fossil fuels for the powering of stationary
equipment used in the capture, and transport via pipeline of CO2, shall be reported per Subpart C of 40
CFR, Part 98, or per a comparable methodology.

7.2 Excluding the CO2 captured or transported for the purpose of sequestration, greenhouse gas
emissions resulting from leaks, vents and flares from stationary equipment of GHGs other than the CO2
captured or transported for the purpose of sequestration shall be reported per Subpart W of 40 CFR, Part
98, or per a comparable methodology.

7.3 Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from vehicle transportation for the delivery of CO2 via containers
from a GEMM 2 capture facility to a well shall be accounted for by tracking fuel use attributed to that
transportation for both pick-up and delivery of the CO2 and applying the appropriate emission factor for
the fuel type as found in Table MM-1 or Table MM-2 of Subpart MM of 40 CFR, Part 98, or a comparable
appropriate emission factor.




                                                                                                         60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


State-Managed GHG Reduction Fund

The Commission directs the Division to propose establishment of a state-managed fund to receive and
allocate monies to finance projects to reduce GHG emissions from the industrial and manufacturing
sector by no later than September 2025, and to ask the Commission to hold a rulemaking hearing to
establish this fund, the hearing to be held no later than December 2025. This state-managed fund could
serve as a compliance option for any GEMM 2 facility unable to comply by other means laid out in the
rule, allowing the facility to instead pay fees to this fund on a per metric ton of CO2e basis up to the
amount required to achieve the facility’s reduction requirement for that year. The Commission expects
that fees would need to be set above any regulatory price cap for onsite reductions. The purpose of the
fund should be to finance projects at other industrial or manufacturing sites located within
Disproportionately Impacted Communities, or finance otherwise cost-prohibitive onsite reduction projects
within the group of regulated entities in the industrial and manufacturing sector. The reduction projects
funded should be prioritized by considering both the GHG reductions and co-pollutant reductions
estimated from each project, and prioritized within communities surrounding the GEMM 2 facilities that
have the highest EnviroScreen scores to ensure the projects are occurring in the most vulnerable
communities.

GHG Reduction Plan

As established in Part B, Section II.A., by September 30, 2025, each covered GEMM 2 facility (except for
glass manufacturing facilities) must develop a GHG reduction plan showing how the facility will achieve
the required GHG reductions and how co-pollutant emission reductions were considered and prioritized in
accordance with the rule. For glass manufacturing facilities, the GHG reduction plans are due by June 1,
2027. The facility will be required to implement the portfolio of onsite measures with an average cost
equal to or below the 2030 social cost of GHGs (as established in the Federal Interagency Working
Group’s February 2021 report on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases), which achieves the greatest
reduction in harmful air pollution, up to the facility’s 2030 GHG emission requirement before it may use
the credit system to comply with the rule. The average cost is determined by dividing total cost of the
portfolio by the total emission reduction. The 2030 social cost of GHG values are, for carbon dioxide, $89
per metric ton of carbon dioxide; for methane, $2,500 per metric ton of methane; and for nitrous oxide,
$33,000 per metric ton of nitrous oxide, with other GHGs converted to CO2e. To determine whether a
portfolio of measures exceeds this cost, facilities are required to show that the cost of implementing the
portfolio of measures, over the lifetime of the equipment involved, will have an average cost of more than
the 2030 social cost of the respective GHG gases abated.

The Commission determined that the 2030 social cost of GHGs is an appropriate regulatory price cap for
requiring onsite measures through a portfolio approach. The social cost of GHGs, however, is not
intended to be a price above which the Commission considers GHG emission reduction measures to be
cost-prohibitive nor as a ceiling above which facilities should not implement GHG emission reduction
measures that are cost-effective for those facilities, as cost-effectiveness varies for each facility. A
portfolio of measures may require inclusion of individual measures above this cost, where the average
cost of the portfolio remains equal to or less than the 2030 social cost of GHGs. The 2030 social cost of
GHGs was considered an appropriate average cost because the social cost of GHGs, as defined in the
Act at § 25-7-110.5(4)(f), C.R.S., is a comparative tool that is already established and defined as cost-
effective since it is the cost at which the net benefits of GHG emission reduction measures generally
outweigh the costs. Using the 2030 social cost of GHGs value additionally aligns with the year the
reductions are required to be achieved by the covered GEMM 2 facilities, and the year around which the
GHG reduction plan is structured. Above this portfolio cost, the Commission encourages facilities to
consider the cost-effectiveness of GHG emissions reductions measures for their individual facilities by
requiring facilities to identify and price all technically feasible GHG emission reduction measures and
establishing a credit trading program, both which help to create the business case to implement
measures above the 2030 social cost of GHGs if they are cost-effective for facilities independently.
Requiring facilities to assess the cost of all measures also allows for measures to be assessed for
accuracy.




                                                                                                       61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


This requirement also allows the Division to collect information on the types and cost of reduction
measures that could potentially become cost-effective in the future, or with additional financing through
incentives and grant programs and for the independent third party to verify that they are, in fact, accurate.
The Commission’s approach described above will help to prevent GHG emissions leakage out of state,
which is a concern if a facility would otherwise be required to decrease production to comply with
Regulation Number 27. The Commission is aware that the social cost of GHG values might be updated
upwards by the Federal Interagency Working Group. The Commission asks the Division to monitor any
such updates and return to the Commission with a proposal to update the SC-GHG used in the rule for
purposes of cost-effectiveness if the SC-GHG is increased by the Federal Interagency Working Group.

In addition to prioritizing onsite GHG reductions, which is expected to result in reductions of harmful air
pollution, the rule satisfies the statutory requirement in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. to include
protections for disproportionately impacted communities and prioritize emission reductions that reduce
harmful air pollution that adversely affects disproportionately impacted communities through two
additional mechanisms set out in Part B, Section II.A.3.a. and Part B, Section II.A.6. In Part B, Section
II.A.3.a., the Commission required that facilities must propose to implement the GHG reduction measures
with the greater reduction in harmful air pollution for measures that yield GHG emission reductions within
5% of each other and are at or below the 2030 social cost of GHGs. This prioritizes GHG reduction
measures that also reduce the greater amount of harmful air pollution for the benefit and protection of
disproportionately impacted communities. In Part B, Section II.A.6, the Commission adopted a
mechanism by which facilities that use the GHG credit trading system to reach their 2030 GHG emission
requirements will be required to “true-up” their onsite reductions of harmful air pollution.

For this process, the Commission adopted a higher regulatory price cap for implementing measures to
reduce harmful air pollution because, upon proposing to use the GHG credit trading system, a covered
GEMM 2 facility will have already proposed the portfolio of measures up to the 2030 social cost of GHGs
and concluded that no additional measures are available under that cost. Therefore, by increasing the
regulatory price cap threshold to 50% above the 2030 social cost of GHGs, additional GHG reduction
measures that also reduce harmful air pollution that are not included in the facility’s portfolio of measures
may be identified and used to quantify corresponding harmful air pollution reductions. The calculation of
the portfolio cost does not include additional measures identified and included under Part B, Section
II.A.6. These requirements were structured to directly address the statutory requirements to provide
protections for disproportionately impacted communities and prioritize reductions of harmful air pollution.
To allow for a consistent methodology to be used in quantifying and comparing co-pollutant reductions,
the Commission directs the Division to publish a guidance document outlining the specific process that
should be followed. The guidance document will aid regulated sources as well as third-party reviewers in
ensuring a consistent method is used in the development of the GHG reduction plans.

Under Part B, Sections II.C and II.D, an independent third party must review and certify the facility’s GHG
reduction plan. Owners and operators of GEMM 2 facilities will pay the full cost of the independent third-
party review and certification for their facility. In contrast to the qualified third-party auditor requirements
under Part C, Section I.A.3., the independent third party will be contracted by the State of Colorado to
assure objectivity and neutrality of the third-party review and certification. Under Part B, Section IV,
covered GEMM 2 facilities must also submit annual emission reports by March 31 of each calendar year
starting in 2025, and compliance certifications by September 30 for each compliance period starting in
2027. The facility must certify a facility’s annual emissions, provide updates on reducing air pollution
where located near or in a disproportionately impacted community, and document non-facility achieved
GHG reductions (e.g., purchased GHG credits).

When calculating its emissions reduction targets and submitting its annual compliance certification, a
GEMM 2 facility may account for a percent of the emissions avoided by utilization of a combined heat and
power (“CHP”) unit, or cogeneration unit. The Commission recognizes that industrial CHP can provide
significant GHG emissions reductions in the near- to mid-term as marginal grid emissions continue to be
based on a mix of fossil fuels in Colorado.




                                                                                                              62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Additionally, cogeneration units avoid losses associated with conventional electricity supply, which further
reduces fuel use, helps avoid the need for new transmission and distribution infrastructure, and eases
grid congestion when demand for electricity is high, particularly here in Colorado. The Commission also
notes that in the long-term, consistent with a U.S. Department of Energy “Industrial Decarbonization
Roadmap” (Sept. 2022), CHP systems can be retrofitted to use clean fuels, and so it makes little sense to
incentivize early shutdown of such systems currently. Therefore, the Commission adopted a provision
allowing a GEMM 2 facility with a combined heat and power unit to reduce its GEMM 2 annual GHG
emissions requirement in 2024 through 2029, based on the amount of displaced on-site emissions
associated with boiler usage, up to 50% of the facility’s annual GHG emissions reduction requirement.
The Commission intends that credit given for CHP sunset as of December 31, 2029. The Commission
intends that the combined heat and power compliance credit will be available only so long as a facility
demonstrates its displaced on-site thermal energy emissions based on the six-step formula (below)
contained in the Division-approved form that calculates displaced emissions. This ensures that the State
achieves both the GEMM 2 specific target and the State’s economy-wide target in a more efficient
manner by avoiding simply shifting GHG emissions to another industrial sector.



                                                        DE = (CP + GL) x GE
                                                        where:
Step 1:    Displaced electricity emissions         DE   CP = CHP electricity production
                                                        GL = Electric grid transmission & distribution loss
                                                        GE = Electric grid emission factor


                                                        DT = C T / T P x T E
                                                        where:
Step 2:    Displaced thermal emissions             DT   CT = Utilized CHP thermal output
                                                        TP = Displaced thermal production efficiency
                                                        TE = Displaced thermal emission factor


                                                        DU = D E + D T
                                                        where:
Step 3:    Displaced utility emissions             DU
                                                        DE = Displaced electricity emissions
                                                        DT = Displaced thermal emissions


                                                        CE = C F + F E
                                                        where:
Step 4:    CHP emissions                           CE
                                                        CF = CHP fuel consumption
                                                        FE = CHP fuel emission factor


                                                        AT = DU – CE
                                                        where:
Step 5:    Total avoided emissions                 AT
                                                        DU = Displaced utility emissions
                                                        CE = CHP emissions


                                                        AD = DT / DU x AT
                                                        where:
Step 6:    Direct stationary avoided emissions     AD   DT = Displaced thermal emissions
                                                        DU = Displaced utility emissions
                                                        AT = Total avoided emissions




                                                                                                          63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Transparency

In line with the Commission’s commitment to equitable representation and meaningful community
engagement, the Commission directs the Division to take the following actions related to transparency in
its implementation of Regulation Number 27.

The Division is directed to conduct the public meetings required under Part B, Section II.I. consistent with
the spirit of the outreach requirements provided in the Environmental Justice Act including (1) holding
multiple meetings at variable times such as weekend, evening, and/or morning sessions; (2) providing at
least 30 day public notice before any public input opportunity; (3) disseminating meeting announcements
through different methods and community organizations; and (4) hosting meetings in multiple locations,
such as urban centers, rural locations. The Division is further directed to gather public input on GHG
reduction plans via a variety of methods, including in person, virtual/online, online comment portal/email,
and call-in. Colorado residents participating in such public meetings outside of paid employment will be
offered participation stipends as an expression of gratitude for their time and child care stipends to
promote accessible, meaningful involvement in the process. Such public meetings will be announced in
English and Spanish and interpretation will be provided in languages other than English upon request.

Additionally, the Division is directed to post to its website a plain-language description of the contents of
the following documents in the top two languages spoken by the communities surrounding each of the
GEMM 2 facilities: (1) GHG reduction plans (Part B, Section II.A); (2) annual compliance certifications
(Part B, Section IV.A); (3) certifications that a facility will comply with its 2030 requirement in 2025 (Part B,
Section I.A.6); (4) records related to compliance with a facility’s approved GHG reduction plan (Part B,
Section V.A.2); and (5) credit trading program registration applications (Part D, Section II.A.1). The
Division will provide translated copies of these documents to members of the public upon request or will
provide a meeting with a Division subject-matter expert to review requested document(s) with an
interpreter present.

Recordkeeping

Certain submissions required of GEMM 2 facilities may contain confidential business information (CBI).
Part B, Section V includes a requirement that any potential CBI submitted by GEMM 2 facilities must be
clearly identified and be submitted in a separate, supplementary document. The Commission does not,
however, intend that such statements be determinative of whether the information is in fact CBI under
Colorado law, but expects that information will be made available as required and permitted by the
Colorado Open Records Act.

Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading System

The Commission also expanded upon the GHG accounting and tracking system, as required in § 25-7-
105(f)(II), C.R.S, with the GHG credit trading system set out in Part D.

The GHG credit trading system allows “regulated sources” to generate and trade or retire GHG credits as
a compliance mechanism for this rule. As “regulated sources,” an EITE facility may generate one GHG
credit per metric ton of CO2e reduced beyond its annual emissions limitation in the relevant year which it
may trade with other EITE sources. A GEMM 2 facility may generate one GHG credit per metric ton of
CO2e reduced beyond its 2030 GHG emissions requirement in the given year which it may trade with
other GEMM 2 facilities. Before allowing trading between EITE and GEMM 2 sources, the Commission
directs the Division to engage in a stakeholder process or technical working group to publish guidance by
December 1, 2024. Such guidance must ensure that trading between EITE and GEMM 2 sources does
not compromise the sector’s achievement of the GHG emissions reduction requirement in § 25-7-
105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. As with any credit trading market, it is important that this GHG credit trading
system ensure that one GHG credit equates to one metric ton of CO2e reduced to ensure the GHG
credits in the market accurately reflect GHG emission reductions.




                                                                                                              64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Because EITE facilities generate GHG credits on an intensity basis, one GHG credit generated by an
EITE facility does not always equate to one metric ton of CO2e reduced such that trading between EITE
and GEMM 2 generated GHG credits may jeopardize the State’s progress towards its climate goals.
Therefore, until a framework could be established to prevent jeopardizing the State’s progress towards its
climate goals, GHG credit trading between EITE and GEMM 2 facilities was restricted until 2025 after the
Division published guidance to ensure the sector aligns with its climate targets in § 25-7-105, C.R.S. By
ensuring that one metric ton of CO2e reduced is equal to one GHG credit, which a facility can bank for up
to three years and can retire or trade as needed, the GHG credit trading system established in Part D was
structured to (1) not jeopardize the State’s progress towards its climate goals, and (2) allows a facility to
retain the full value of one metric ton of CO2e reduced at the facility in the GHG credit trading system.

The GHG credit program also incentivizes near-term emission reductions, as required by the Act,
because it allows a facility to retain the full value of one metric ton of CO2e reduced at the facility in the
credit market while encouraging facilities to avoid additional costs to purchase GHG credits and creating
a profitable business opportunity for facilities that can reduce their emissions beyond their allowances.

In addition, beginning in 2031, GEMM 2 facilities may generate one GHG credit per metric ton of CO2e
quantifiably reduced through offsite direct air carbon capture projects. The Commission directs the
Division to approve a protocol governing the implementation of such projects. This provision was intended
to encourage direct air capture projects that remove carbon from the air, which will help Colorado achieve
its climate change mitigation goals. See § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. Any GHG credit generated through a direct
air carbon capture project will be scrutinized to ensure that GHG emissions reductions are real,
quantifiable, permanent, verifiable, enforceable, and that the ratio of one GHG credit to one metric ton of
CO2e reduction is maintained. Offering an additional alternative compliance option for GEMM 2 facilities
aligns with the Commission’s ability to include regulatory strategies “that enhance cost-effectiveness” and
“compliance flexibility” in its rules per § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V), C.R.S. Importantly, this option does not
undermine the rule’s requirement for the sector to reduce GHG emissions by 20% from 2015 levels
because it is available for compliance after facilities are required to initially achieve this level of GHG
emission reductions. Nor does it undermine protections for disproportionately impacted communities
because it is subject to the rule’s requirements that, (1) under Part B, Section II.A.4, facilities implement
all onsite reductions up to the 2030 social cost of GHGs before using the GHG credit trading system
towards achieving their 2030 reduction requirements, and that (2) facilities using the GHG credit trading
system that are located near residential disproportionately impacted communities reduce harmful air
pollution under Part B, Section II.A.5.

The GHG credit trading system will be operational and open to EITE and GEMM 2 facilities for GHG
credit trading by December 1, 2024. The Commission anticipates that this will be sufficient time for the
Division to develop, test, and launch the GHG credit trading system for facilities to utilize GHG credits as
a form of compliance beginning in 2025 for the 2024 compliance year. The Division will issue GHG credits
annually to align with the annual emissions compliance obligations. Each GHG credit will be uniquely
identifiable to assist the Division with tracking GHG credit movement within the system and preventing
double-counting of GHG emission reductions. Also to prevent double-counting of GHG emission
reductions, the GHG credit trading system will prohibit the transfer or use of GHG credits generated within
the system to other external credit trading systems to assure the GHG credits are used and accounted for
within Colorado. Finally, unless retired earlier for compliance purposes, all GHG credits will expire three
years from the date they are generated. Allowing facilities to hold GHG credits for three years will allow
facilities to time the sale of their GHG credits with the market and to generate revenue over time by selling
a greater number of GHG credits after they have had an opportunity to bank GHG credits. Three years is
the lifetime of a GHG credit to create a balance of supply and demand for GHG credits in the system and
was based on the Division’s projections of GHG credit availability in the GHG credit market each year.




                                                                                                             65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


The Commission heard testimony during the hearing from individuals, community groups and officials
expressing concern that the regulations as proposed did not go far enough to provide the necessary
reductions of co-pollutants in Disproportionately Impacted Communities, as well as testimony expressing
the contrary concern that the regulations could adversely affect the production output and number of jobs
in those industries covered by the rule. The Commission appreciates hearing from all who provided
comments regarding the potential impacts and issues associated with this rulemaking. This rulemaking
was directed by the legislature both to ensure greenhouse gas emission reductions from the industrial
and manufacturing sector and to prioritize emission reductions that will reduce emissions of co-pollutants
that adversely affect Disproportionately Impacted Communities. In adopting this rule, the Commission has
worked to balance the conflicting concerns raised in the testimony. Recognizing that the rule presents
new concepts and requirements that may need to be reevaluated to ensure the goals of the legislation
and the rule’s programs are met, the Commission:

        1.      Directs the Division to evaluate the trading program and to identify any modifications that
                may be necessary. If any such modifications are identified by the Division, the
                Commission requests that the Division bring a petition to request a rulemaking hearing to
                the Commission no later than September 2025.

        2.      Directs the Division to report to the Commission on or before December 31, 2025 on:

                a.      The status of the trading program;

                b.      The co-pollutant reductions associated with the credits generated for the trades;

                c.      Updated projections for the 2026 credit market, and likely compliance pathways
                        for the GEMM 2 facilities.

                d.      The 2022- 2024 GHG emissions from both the GEMM 1 and GEMM 2 facilities

                e.      The GHG plans submitted by the covered facilities and information on emissions
                        reduction strategies in the plans including co-pollutant reductions.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections throughout the
regulations.

Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the Act:

§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)     Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
        requirements;

        Manufacturing sector stationary sources are required to report GHG emissions under existing
        federal regulations. The Mandatory Reporting Rule requires sources with annual emissions equal
        to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year to report through the EPA’s Greenhouse
        Gas Reporting Program. Some specific source types are considered “all in” and required to report
        GHG emissions even if they are under the 25,000 metric ton per year threshold. However,
        emission reduction requirements such as those in Regulation Number 27 are not part of any
        federal law or regulation.




                                                                                                         66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
        whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

        The applicable federal requirements are not performance-based or technology-based because
        they are reporting requirements only. Manufacturing sector stationary sources are required to
        report GHG emissions under existing federal regulations. The Mandatory Reporting Rule requires
        sources with annual emissions equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year to
        report through the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. Some specific source types are
        considered “all in” and required to report GHG emissions even if they are under the 25,000 metric
        ton per year threshold.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and
        situation was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;

        There are no federal requirements that specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
        in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within
        or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet
        more stringent requirements later;

        The adopted revisions give meaningful effect to § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S., and provide
        regulated entities flexibility to identify and cost-effectively employ emissions control technologies
        with guidance of a regulatory price cap. The covered GEMM 2 facilities are allowed to comply
        using the GHG credit trading system to allow for flexibility.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements;

        There are no applicable federal requirements that create any timing issues. Part B allows
        regulated entities a reasonable time to comply with the reduction requirements and to submit the
        GHG reduction plan. It also allows opportunities for GEMM 2 facilities to use the GHG credit
        trading system opportunities for alternative compliance.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
        margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        Regulation Number 27 does not set constraints on production for covered facilities. Regulated
        entities may use the GHG credit trading system after onsite measures are employed. Regulated
        entities may also use the program if the facility must increase in direct GHG emissions as a result
        of increased production. In addition, regulated entities m ay pay into a state-managed GHG
        reduction fund for purposes of compliance, if and when such a fund is established.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the
        requirements for various sources;




                                                                                                            67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


         All covered GEMM 2 facilities are subject to the GHG reduction requirements depending on
         multiple, equity-focused factors. The proposal assigns tiered reduction requirements based
         largely on the facilities’ achieved reductions in an equitable manner. Those that had achieved
         significant GHG emission reductions since 2015 have a lesser 2030 reduction obligation than
         those that had reduced less than 20%, or increased emissions. Additionally, facilities that are the
         larger emitters relative to the group’s total emissions have an additional percentage of reduction
         required because of the impact the facilities have on the group reaching a 20% reduction from
         2015 by 2030, and facilities with more emissions tend to have more opportunities to reduce GHG
         emissions, versus the smaller facilities in the group.

(VIII)   Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

         The General Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and
         directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across all sectors of our economy. Colorado has
         established specific GHG reduction goals. Reductions not achieved in one sector will require
         measures in other sectors of the economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals.

         Furthermore, the General Assembly provided requirements that the industrial sector in Colorado
         reduce its GHG emissions by 20% by 2030 compared to what it emitted in 2015. The GEMM 2
         rule is addressing emissions from the manufacturing sector, which account for approximately
         one-third of the industrial sector’s total emissions. The facilities regulated under both GEMM 1
         and the proposed revisions of GEMM 2 account for 75% of the manufacturing sector’s emissions.
         Reductions not timely realized by these facilities will require additional measures to achieve
         reductions in other industrial sources, many of which are already regulated for GHG emissions, to
         reach the state’s industrial sector 2030 target.

(IX)     Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements
         that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling
         reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;

         Regulation Number 27 gives effect to the General Assembly’s adoption of § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII),
         C.R.S. which is a unique requirement of Colorado law. The “compelling reason” for the GHG
         reduction plans and annual compliance reports required under Part B of Regulation Number 27 is
         to ensure satisfaction of § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. Such plans and reports will also inform the
         state’s strategies and future regulations to accomplish the statewide GHG pollution reduction
         goals and address the impacts of climate change set forth in § 25-7-102(2), C.R.S. and further
         sector-specific emission reductions under § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S.

(X)      Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

         Regulation Number 27 does not require the use of any specific technology but instead serves as
         a mechanism to assure reductions are achieved by specific manufacturing sources by setting
         individual GHG reduction requirements for applicable facilities and allowing a GHG credit trading
         system to reach those targets. Regulation Number 27 also does not require the use of any
         specific technology for reducing harmful air pollution, but instead prompts regulated entities to
         evaluate the control technologies that may have such results. The GHG reduction plans are used
         to conduct this evaluation and must include analyses of, but not necessarily implementation of,
         transformative technologies. All measures identified in the GHG reduction plans will be based on
         demonstrated and available technologies.

(XI)     Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a
         potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;




                                                                                                            68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


        The revisions to Regulation Number 27 enable the Commission to require specific mass-based
        reduction requirements for large manufacturing facilities. The covered GEMM 2 facilities are
        required to comply first with technically feasible onsite reduction measures up to the 2030 social
        cost of GHGs, and if they are not able to achieve their reduction goal utilizing onsite measures,
        they may use the GHG credit trading system.

        The GHG emissions reductions from this rule are expected to help Colorado achieve the
        statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S., and the sector-specific GHG
        emission reductions set forth in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. Anticipated reductions in co-
        pollutants are expected to have positive health benefits for the people of Colorado.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required
        standard.

        This rule implements the statutory requirements of §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. Alternatives
        exist for how to accomplish these requirements, including different emission thresholds for
        qualifying entities, different standards for evaluating GHG reduction plans and measures, and the
        provision of no or differing means of alternative compliance as well as different timing
        requirements for emission reductions. The Commission determined that Part B appropriately
        gives effect to the statutory requirements and is consistent with the statewide and sector-specific
        GHG pollution reduction goals. A no-action alternative is not available under § 25-7-105(1)(e),
        C.R.S.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
        methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information
        made available by interested parties has been considered.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction
        in GHG pollution and co-pollutants and will enable the Commission to satisfy the requirements of
        §§ 25-7-102, -105(1)(e), -106, and/or -109, C.R.S., as applicable.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about reductions in risks to
        human health and the environment that will justify the costs to government, the regulated
        community, and to the public to implement and comply with the rule.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results and reduction
        in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

V.      Adopted: December 18-20, 2024

Expansion of Part D, Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading, to recovered methane and the midstream oil and
gas segment.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and -110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.




                                                                                                             69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Basis

In 2021, the Commission adopted requirements for upstream and midstream segment oil and gas
operations, to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from those operations to achieve the GHG
reduction requirements of House Bill 21-1266. Specifically for the midstream segment, the Commission
adopted requirements for owners or operators to submit fuel combustion equipment company emission
reduction plans to a midstream steering committee by July 31, 2022; for the midstream steering
committee to develop recommendations for a midstream segment emission reduction plan (sERP) and
submit the recommendations to the Division by March 31, 2024; and for the Division to submit a
regulatory proposal to the Commission by August 31, 2024, and request a rulemaking hearing for no later
than December 31, 2024. The Commission adopted in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII. a
midstream segment emission reduction program that will achieve a 20% reduction in CO2e from the 2015
baseline, as required by § 25-7-140(2)(a)(II). As part of this program, the Commission also adopted
provisions for GHG crediting and trading. Therefore, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation
Number 27 expanding Part D to midstream companies.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (Act), specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration
of the Act. § 25-7-105(1)(e), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and
regulations consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S. § 25-
7-106, C.R.S., provides the Commission “maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality
program and [promulgating] such [a] combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to
carry out that program.” § 25-7-106(6), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to require owners and
operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information.

Purpose

The Commission expanded the Part D Greenhouse Gas Credit Trading System to both midstream
companies and recovered methane. Concerning midstream companies, the Commission adopted specific
applicability, timing, and other requirements in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII. Concerning
recovered methane, the addition of registration requirements for entities generating and obtaining
recovered methane credits in Part D, Sections II.A. and II.C. are meant to align with existing requirements
in Regulation 22, Part C, Section I.D.2.a.(ii), which references Part D, Section II.C.

The Commission also updated the system terminology from “credit trading system” to “crediting and
tracking system” to be more accurate with the system’s purpose and intent. Corresponding terminology
updates were included in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII. for the midstream segment emission
reduction program. The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout the regulations.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the
regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to incorporate
by reference federal regulations. The criteria of §24-4-103(12.5) are met by including specific information
and making the regulations available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations
incorporated would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission includes, where necessary, reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 27.




                                                                                                         70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


Additional Considerations

The following are additional findings of the Commission made in accordance with the Act: § 25-7-
110.5(5)(b), C.R.S.

As these revisions exceed and may differ from the federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with
§ 25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:

(I)     Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those
        requirements;

        Stationary sources are required to report GHG emissions under existing federal regulations. The
        Mandatory Reporting Rule requires sources with annual emissions equal to or greater than
        25,000 metric tons of CO2e per year to report through the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting
        Program. However, there is currently no federal level greenhouse gas crediting and tracking
        system.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and
        whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

        The applicable federal requirements are not performance-based or technology-based because
        they are reporting requirements only.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and
        situation was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements;

        There are no federal requirements that specifically address the issues that are of concern to
        Colorado.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply
        in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within
        or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet
        more stringent requirements later;

        The adopted revisions give meaningful effect to § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S., and provide
        regulated entities flexibility to identify and cost-effectively employ emissions control technologies.
        The covered midstream companies are allowed to comply using the GHG crediting and tracking
        system to allow for flexibility.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements;

        There are no applicable federal requirements that create any timing issues.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
        margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        Regulation Number 27 does not set constraints on production for covered facilities. Regulated
        entities may use the GHG credit trading system after onsite measures are employed. Regulated
        entities may also use the program if the facility must increase in direct GHG emissions as a result
        of increased production.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the
        requirements for various sources;




                                                                                                            71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


         The rule maintains reasonable equity for midstream companies as crediting and tracking
         requirements and opportunities are the same for each company.

(VIII)   Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

         The General Assembly has acknowledged that climate change impacts Colorado’s economy and
         directed that GHG emissions should be reduced across all sectors of our economy. Colorado has
         established specific GHG reduction goals. Reductions not achieved in one sector will require
         measures in other sectors of the economy to achieve the state’s GHG reduction goals.

(IX)     Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements
         that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling
         reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements;

         There are no comparable federal GHG crediting and tracking system requirements.

(X)      Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement;

         Regulation Number 27 does not require the use of any specific technology but instead serves as
         a mechanism to allow GHG crediting and trading to reach applicable emission reduction targets.

(XI)     Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a
         potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

         The revisions to Regulation Number 27 enable a midstream company to use the GHG crediting
         and tracking system if they are not able to achieve their reduction goal utilizing onsite measures.

         The GHG emissions reductions from this rule are expected to help Colorado achieve the
         statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-102(2)(g), C.R.S., and the sector-specific GHG
         emission reductions set forth in § 25-7-105(1)(e)(XIII), C.R.S. Anticipated reductions in co-
         pollutants are expected to have positive health benefits for the people of Colorado.

(XII)    Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required
         standard.

         The expansion of the GHG crediting and tracking system to the midstream segment is needed to
         achieve the statutorily mandated emission reductions. As noted, the State Air Act requires the
         Commission to implement GHG emission reduction strategies in order to secure reductions of
         pollution consistent with the statewide GHG emission reduction goals. Currently emissions
         projections over the next decade demonstrate that a no-action alternative would fall short of
         achieving Colorado’s reduction goals.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after considering all
the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)      These rules are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
         methodologies and all validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information
         made available by interested parties has been considered.

(II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction
         in GHG pollution and co-pollutants and will enable the Commission to satisfy the requirements of
         §§ 25-7-102, -105(1)(e), -106, and/or -109, C.R.S., as applicable.




                                                                                                            72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission


(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about reductions in risks to
        human health and the environment that will justify the costs to government, the regulated
        community, and to the public to implement and comply with the rule.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results and reduction
        in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective manner.




                                                                                                             73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-31
Air Quality Control Commission



_________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 06/14/2023.
Entire rule, Part E IV eff. 12/15/2023.
Part A II.AA-II.QQQ, Part B II.A.5-II.A.6, III.B, IV.B.1.d, IV.C.1.d, IV.D.1.d, Part D, Part E V eff.
         02/14/2025.




                                                                                                            74
