CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 10 CRITERIA FOR ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION CONFORMITY

    5 CCR 1001-12
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Conformity to State Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects
    Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act

    I.        Requirement to Comply with the Federal Rule

                        The purpose of Regulation Number 10 is to fulfill the requirement in 40 CFR 51.390(b) to
                        establish a SIP revision that addresses the provisions of Sections 40 CFR 93.105(a)
                        through (e), 40 CFR 93.122(a)(4)(ii), and 40 CFR 93.125(c) of the federal transportation
                        conformity rule (see 40 CFR Part 93, Subpart A). Any person making a transportation
                        conformity determination or adopting or approving a regionally significant project shall
                        comply with the provisions of 40 CFR, Part 93, Subpart A., except as follows:

              I.A.      The interagency consultation procedures established in Section III. of this document
                        specify Colorado procedures and shall apply in addition to the consultation procedures
                        established in 40 CFR Section 93.105 (a) through (e).

              I.B.      Colorado-specific provisions in Section IV. of this document that require obtainment of
                        and fulfillment of written commitments to SIP control measures not included in a
                        transportation plan or Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) shall apply, pursuant to
                        40 CFR Section 93.122 (a)(4)(ii).

              I.C.      Colorado-specific provisions in Section V. of this document regarding design concept and
                        scope and enforceability of project-level mitigation and control measures shall apply,
                        pursuant to 40 CFR Section 93.125 (c).

    II.       Definitions

              CDOT means the Colorado Department of Transportation.

              Commission means the Air Quality Control Commission as defined in Section 25-7-103(7), C.R.S.

              Division means The Air Pollution Control Division, pursuant to Section 25-7-111, C.R.S.

              Hot Spot Analysis is an estimation of likely future localized criteria pollutant (or their precursor)
              concentrations and a comparison of those concentrations to the national ambient air quality
              standards. Federally required hot spot analyses assess impacts of pollutants on a scale smaller
              than the entire nonattainment or maintenance area, including for example, congested roadway
              intersections, highway portions, or transit terminals, using air quality dispersion modeling.

              Lead Planning Agency (LPA) is an agency designated by Colorado’s Governor that is charged,
              together with the Division, with the duty of developing the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for any
              nonattainment or maintenance area.




                                                                                                                      1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


      Metropolitan planning organization (MPO) is that organization designated as being responsible,
      together with the State, for conducting the continuing, cooperative, and comprehensive planning
      process under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 1607. It is the lead agency for preparing
      transportation plans, TIPs and transportation conformity documents, and it provides a forum for
      cooperative transportation decision-making.

      Project-level Conformity See: Hot Spot Analysis

      Regional Transportation Conformity refers to the status of a transportation planning region’s
      conformance to relevant State Implementation Plans (SIPs). A conforming region’s transportation
      plans and TIPs have passed emissions tests that must indicate they are unlikely to cause,
      contribute to, or increase the severity and frequency of future violations of national ambient air
      quality standards. Regional Conformity is demonstrated using transportation network models and
      air quality models and comparing projected transportation-related pollutant emissions to motor
      vehicle emissions budgets, or where budgets are not established, other emission limits for the
      region. To make a positive Conformity finding for a region, future emissions must not exceed
      certain limits, e.g., emission budgets, and transportation projects, plans and TIPs must not
      interfere with any transportation control measures required by SIPs.

      Review Team is that group of interagency representatives who consult regarding Transportation
      Conformity assessment and findings, e.g., the Interagency Consultation Group (ICG) developed
      by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. The review team’s responsibilities are defined
      in Section III. of this rule.

      Regionally Significant Project means a transportation project (other than an exempt project*) for a
      facility that serves regional transportation needs, such as access to and from the area outside the
      region, major activity centers in the region, major planned developments such as new retail malls,
      sports complexes, etc., or transportation terminals as well as most terminals themselves) and
      would be included in the modeling of a metropolitan area’s transportation network, including at a
      minimum all principal arterial highways and all fixed guideway transit facilities that offer and
      alternative to regional highway travel. For the purposes of this rule, regionally significant projects
      include only those located in nonattainment or maintenance areas. *Exempt projects are listed in
      the Federal Regulation at 40 CFR Part 93.126 and Part 93.127 and include safety improvements.

      Routine Conformity Determination is one that is made for transportation plans and TIPs and/or
      their amendments involving: (1) Plans or TIPs that the APCD determines to have minor
      amendments only, and /or (2) Projects with revisions to staging years only, and/or (3) Minor
      transit station plan revisions. Conformity Determinations for areas with Limited Maintenance
      Plans, which do not have emissions budgets, would also generally be considered “routine.”
      Notwithstanding this general definition, the APCD or the Commission at its discretion may request
      that any Conformity Determination be reviewed by the Commission.

      Transportation Control Measure (TCM) is any measure that is specifically identified and
      committed to in the applicable implementation plan (air quality SIP) through the process
      established in CAA Section 176 (c) (8), that is either one of the types listed in CAA Section 108,
      or any other measure designed to reduce emissions or concentrations of air pollutants from
      transportation sources by reducing vehicle use or changing traffic flow or congestion conditions.
      Vehicle technology-based, fuel-based and maintenance-based measures, e.g., inspection and
      maintenance programs, are not TCM’s.

      Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) A prioritized program of transportation projects
      funded with federal transportation funds, developed under 23.U.S.C. 134(j) and 23 CFR Parts
      450.324 through 450.330. The TIP must be fiscally constrained, and, in air quality nonattainment
      and maintenance areas, the MPO, as well as FHWA and FTA must determine that the TIP
      achieves Conformity




                                                                                                           2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


       Transportation Plan in the context of this regulation means a fiscally constrained plan prepared by
       a Metropolitan Planning Organization or CDOT and a local government or governments and/or
       regional planning commission pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 134 and as amplified by 23 CFR Part
       450.322 (also referred to as a metropolitan transportation plan, regional transportation plan, or
       long-range transportation plan) for which a regional conformity determination is required. Outside
       of MPO’s, the Colorado Department of Transportation, along with local governments, develops
       regional transportation plans. The overall State Transportation Plan incorporates all of the
       regional plans.

       Transportation Planning Region (TPR) is a geographic area for which the transportation planning
       process required by 23 USC 134 and 135 and Section 8 of the Federal Transit Act must be
       carried out. Per Colorado regulations (CCR 43-1-1102), a TPR is a geographically designated
       area of the state for which a regional transportation plan may be developed pursuant to the
       provisions of 43-1-1102 and 1103, CRS.

III.   Interagency Consultation

       III.A.   Roles and Responsibilities for Transportation Conformity Determinations and Related SIP
                Development.

                III.A.1. This rule sets out the minimum requirements for interagency consultation
                         (Federal, State, regional and local) and resolution of conflicts. Representatives of
                         the MPOs, local transit agency, the Division, the LPA and CDOT shall undertake
                         an interagency consultation process in accordance with this section with each
                         other and with local or regional offices of EPA, FHWA, and FTA on the
                         development of the implementation plan, the list of TCMs in the applicable
                         implementation plan, the transportation plan, the TIP, and all conformity
                         determinations required by this rule. The MPO shall provide notice of revisions to
                         Conformity documents through the normal planning process. The interagency
                         consultation process shall be used in developing or noticing revisions to any
                         documents that could affect Transportation Conformity.

                III.A.2. It shall be the role and responsibility of each agency identified as a lead agency
                         to prepare the final document and to ensure the adequacy of the interagency
                         consultation process. Designation as a lead agency for any decision item shall
                         mean that such agency shall be responsible for making the final decision on such
                         decision item, except that any such decision shall be subject to the dispute
                         resolution process set out in \ Section III.H.

                III.A.3. In each nonattainment area, CDOT, the LPA, the Division, the MPO, local transit
                         agency, and other agencies, as appropriate, may develop a written agreement
                         pursuant to Section III.G. that outlines the specific roles and responsibilities of
                         various participants in the interagency consultation process for the preparation of
                         SIPs, transportation plans, TIPs and conformity determinations. In the absence of
                         such a written agreement, in addition to the other duties specified in this rule, the
                         specific roles and responsibilities of the various participants in the interagency
                         consultation process shall be as follows:

                        III.A.3.a.         The Division shall be responsible for: (A) emissions inventories;
                                  (B) air quality modeling and/or quality-assuring air quality modeling that
                                  is performed by the MPOs or CDOT; (C) performing attainment
                                  demonstrations; (D) assisting the LPA in the development of pollutant
                                  specific implementation plan revisions; (E) providing technical and policy
                                  input regarding emission factors and emissions budgets; and (F)
                                  updating motor vehicle emissions factors.




                                                                                                            3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                      III.A.3.b.        The LPA, or the Division if there is no LPA, shall: (A) develop
                                pollutant-specific state implementation plans for submittal to the
                                Commission; and (B) prepare emissions budgets.

                      III.A.3.c.         The MPO shall: (A) develop transportation plans and TIPs, and
                                shall make conformity determinations on transportation plans and TIPs
                                within the applicable area, and shall be the lead agency for the
                                development of such plans and TIPs, and for such conformity
                                determinations; (B) develop transportation and socioeconomic data and
                                planning assumptions and provide such data and planning assumptions
                                to the Division for use in air quality analysis; (C) perform transportation
                                modeling and documentation of timely implementation of TCMs needed
                                for conformity assessments and SIP development; and (D) monitor
                                regionally significant projects, and ensure that all disclosed, or otherwise
                                known, regionally significant projects are included in the regional
                                emissions analysis. The MPO may: (E) provide technical and policy input
                                on emissions budgets; (F) perform air quality modeling for transportation
                                conformity purposes; and (G) evaluate TCM impacts on transportation as
                                needed.

                      III.A.3.d.        CDOT shall: (A) provide technical input on proposed revisions to
                                motor vehicle emissions factors, (B) convene air quality technical review
                                meetings on specific projects when requested by other agencies or as
                                needed, and (C) comment on transportation control measures and other
                                aspects of the SIP that may affect the operation, construction or
                                maintenance of the transportation system.

                      III.A.3.e.          In addition to the duties and responsibilities identified in
                                paragraph d. above, for FHWA/FTA projects located outside of
                                metropolitan planning areas, CDOT shall convene the appropriate
                                parties to outline roles and responsibilities and coordinate efforts needed
                                to: (A) perform the required conformity evaluation for such projects, and
                                identify the lead agency for such evaluations; (B) provide technical and
                                policy input on emissions budgets; (C) develop socioeconomic data and
                                planning assumptions for use in air quality analysis to determine
                                conformity of projects in consultation with the affected municipal and
                                county governments and state agencies; and (D) perform transportation
                                modeling, regional emissions analyses and documentation of timely
                                implementation of TCMs needed for conformity assessments. CDOT
                                may also conduct air quality modeling pursuant to a conformity
                                determination.

                      III.A.3.f. The Commission shall be responsible for promulgating revisions to the
                                 SIP and for determining whether a regional conformity determination
                                 should be appealed to the Governor.

      III.B.   Establishing a Forum for Regional Conformity Consultation

               III.B.1. Minimum Consultation Requirements.




                                                                                                           4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                       III.B.1.a.         The MPO shall establish and maintain a forum, herein referred to
                                 as the review team, for regular consultation. The MPO may establish a
                                 committee, or use existing committees, to perform the tasks assigned to
                                 the review team, provided the agencies identified in
                                 SubparagraphIII.B.1.b., below, have an opportunity to participate.
                                 Conference calls or written correspondence may be used to hold the
                                 meetings required by this rule upon the concurrence of the Division and
                                 any affected LPA. The review team shall comply with the minimum
                                 requirements set out in paragraph c. below, except that, outside of metro
                                 planning areas, CDOT shall perform the functions assigned to the MPO.

                       III.B.1.b.         The review team shall consist, at a minimum, of the MPO as lead
                                 agency, the local transit agency, the Division, CDOT, and the LPA. In
                                 addition, the review team shall include EPA, FHWA and the FTA for the
                                 topics identified in Subsection C.1. The agencies on the review team
                                 may appoint individual staff members, of any organizational level, to
                                 participate in the review team.

                       III.B.1.c.        The review team established pursuant to paragraphs a. and b.
                                 shall comply with the following minimum requirements:

                               III.B.1.c.(1)      The MPO consultation process shall begin early enough
                                         for the review team to adequately review and provide meaningful
                                         input on draft transportation plans, TIPs and conformity
                                         determinations, including supporting documents.

                               III.B.1.c.(2)      A schedule of meetings or a process for providing
                                         adequate notice of subsequent meetings shall be developed as
                                         part of the consultation process. The schedule of meetings shall
                                         be frequent enough to address all significant issues in a timely
                                         fashion.

                               III.B.1.c.(3)     The MPO shall establish an agenda for each meeting,
                                         and shall include in such agenda any issue or item upon the
                                         request of any member.

                               III.B.1.c.(4)     Any member may, at any time, request a meeting
                                         through the consultation process. Upon such a request, the MPO
                                         should schedule a meeting as soon as practicable.

                               III.B.1.c.(5)     The MPO shall respond in written form to written
                                         comments received from any of the members of the review team
                                         copying all review team members.

      III.C.   Topics for Consultation

               III.C.1. The review team shall address the following topics in the manner provided.




                                                                                                            5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                             5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                   III.C.1.a.      Evaluating and choosing a model (or models) and associated
                            methods and assumptions to be used in regional emissions analyses.

                   The MPO shall be responsible for selecting the transportation modeling
                   procedures to be used within its modeling domain. The Division shall be
                   responsible for selecting the emissions or air quality modeling procedures used
                   for performing regional emissions analyses for conformity determinations and for
                   SIP revisions.

                   III.C.1.b.        Determining which minor arterials and other transportation
                            projects should be considered “regionally significant” for the purposes of
                            regional emissions analysis (in addition to those functionally classified as
                            principal arterial or higher or fixed guideway systems or extensions that
                            offer an alternative to regional highway travel), and which projects should
                            be considered to have a significant change in design concept and scope
                            from the transportation plan or TIP.

                           III.C.1.b.(1)    The review team shall review the transportation network
                                    and identify minor arterials that serve regional transportation
                                    needs.

                           III.C.1.b.(2)     Review the transportation projects disclosed to the MPO
                                    pursuant to Section III.E., and all transportation projects
                                    otherwise known to the members that may be regionally
                                    significant projects, and identify as regionally significant those
                                    projects that are on a facility which serves regional transportation
                                    needs and that would normally be included in the modeling of the
                                    metropolitan area's transportation network.

                           III.C.1.b.(3)     Identify any significant changes in design concept and
                                    scope of any project from the transportation plan, TIP, or
                                    regional emissions analysis supporting the conformity
                                    determination for a conforming TIP, upon the request of any
                                    participant in the consultation process, or any recipient of funds
                                    designated under Title 23 or the Federal Transit Act with
                                    authority to adopt or approve of the subject regionally significant
                                    project.

                   III.C.1.c.        Evaluating whether projects otherwise exempted from meeting
                             the requirements of this subpart (see 40 CFR Sections 93.126 and
                             93.127) should be treated as non-exempt in cases where potential
                             emissions impacts may exist for any reason.

                           III.C.1.c.(1)     At the request of any participant in the consultation
                                     process, the review team shall determine whether projects
                                     otherwise exempt from meeting the requirements of this subpart
                                     should be treated as non-exempt in cases where potential
                                     emissions impacts may exist for any reason.

                           III.C.1.c.(2)     For each non-attainment area that is outside of a
                                     metropolitan planning area, CDOT shall consult with the review
                                     team to identify categories of exempt projects that should be
                                     treated as non-exempt for such area.




                                                                                                      6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                           5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                   III.C.1.d.         Making a determination, as required by 40 CFR Section
                            93.113(c)(1), whether past obstacles to TCM implementation have been
                            identified and are being overcome, and whether State and local agencies
                            with influence over approvals or funding for TCMs are giving maximum
                            priority to approval or funding for TCMs.

                           III.C.1.d.(1)     The LPA and the Division shall provide the MPO with
                                    information necessary to develop a list of the TCMs The LPA
                                    may also request that the MPO, CDOT, the public transit agency,
                                    or any other agency responsible for implementing a TCM
                                    reaffirm its commitment to implement a TCM pursuant to the
                                    schedule established in the SIP.

                           III.C.1.d.(2)    The MPO, after consultation with the review team, shall
                                    determine whether obstacles to implementation of TCMs have
                                    been identified and are being overcome, and whether State and
                                    local agencies are giving maximum priority to approval or funding
                                    for TCMs. For each such determination, the MPO shall identify
                                    the past obstacles, the steps taken to overcome them, the State
                                    and local agencies with influence over approvals or funding, the
                                    basis for finding that such agencies are giving maximum priority
                                    to such approval or funding, and a revised schedule for the
                                    implementation of the TCM.

                           III.C.1.d.(3)    The MPO shall report any situation in which it
                                    determines that obstacles to implementing a TCM are not being
                                    overcome, or that State and local agencies with influence over
                                    approvals or funding are not giving maximum priority to approval
                                    or funding for TCMs. The report shall be provided to the agency
                                    sponsoring the TCM, the Division, the Commission and the
                                    Governor. The Commission may schedule the matter for a
                                    hearing regarding enforcement, and/or replacement of TCMs.

                   III.C.1.e. Notification of transportation plan or TIP revisions or amendments,
                            which merely add or delete exempt projects listed in 40 CFR Section
                            93.126 or 93.127.

                   The MPO shall provide notice through the normal planning process , prior to
                   consideration of any proposed amendment that adds or deletes exempt projects
                   listed in 40 CFR Section 93.126 or 93.127 to or from the transportation plan or
                   TIP.

                   III.C.1.f. Process for providing final documents and supporting information to
                             each agency after approval or adoption.

                   The MPO shall make available final TIPs and transportation plans to participants
                   in the consultation process.




                                                                                                     7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                     III.C.1.g. Choosing conformity tests and methodologies for isolated rural
                              nonattainment areas, as required by 40 CFR Section 93.109(g).

                     The Division and CDOT shall choose, in consultation with the members of the
                     review team, the requirements and methodologies to be used to comply with 40
                     CFR Section 93.109. If the Division and CDOT cannot agree, the issue shall be
                     referred to the Commission for review at a public meeting pursuant to Section
                     III.H. The Commission may escalate the matter to the Governor as provided in
                     Section III.H.

             III.C.2. The review team shall address the following topics in the manner provided.
                      Outside of the metropolitan planning areas, CDOT shall perform the tasks
                      assigned to the MPO, excepting conformity determination tasks that it contracts
                      out to other entities.

                     III.C.2.a.      Evaluating events which will trigger new conformity
                              determinations in addition to those triggering events established in 40
                              CFR 93.104.

                             III.C.2.a.(1)     The MPO may identify events that would trigger new
                                      conformity determinations in addition to those triggering events
                                      established in 40 CFR Section 93.104, and the pollutant specific
                                      SIPs. Alternatively, the Commission may promulgate regulations
                                      or revise the SIP in a manner that would trigger a new conformity
                                      determination.

                             III.C.2.a.(2)   The MPO will consult with the review team to evaluate
                                      whether events that may trigger a new conformity determination
                                      pursuant to 40 CFR Section 93.104 or a pollutant specific SIP
                                      have occurred.

                     III.C.2.b.       Consulting on emissions analysis for transportation activities that
                              cross the borders of MPOs or nonattainment areas or basins.

                     In the event that contiguous MPOs are created within the state, the affected
                     MPOs shall, in consultation with the participants in the consultation process,
                     establish a consultation procedure for consulting on emissions analyses for
                     transportation activities that cross the borders of MPOs or nonattainment areas
                     or air basins.

                     III.C.2.c.        Determining conformity of projects outside the metropolitan area
                               and within the nonattainment or maintenance area.

                     In the event that a nonattainment or maintenance area is created in the state that
                     includes a metropolitan planning area or areas, but such metropolitan planning
                     area(s) does not include the entire nonattainment or maintenance area, the
                     affected MPOs, in consultation with the participants in the consultation process,
                     shall establish a procedure for consulting on emissions analyses for
                     transportation activities that cross the borders of MPOs or nonattainment areas
                     or air basins.




                                                                                                        8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


                       III.C.2.d.      Process for consulting on the design, schedule, and funding of
                                research and data collection efforts and regional transportation model
                                development by the MPO.

                       The MPO, in consultation with the review team shall determine the design,
                       schedule and funding of significant research and data collection efforts and
                       regional transportation model development.

               III.C.3. Hot Spot Analysis: (1) Evaluating and choosing a model (or models) and
                        associated methods and assumptions to be used in hot-spot modeling; and (2)
                        identifying, as required by 40 CFR Section 93.123(b), projects located at sites in
                        nonattainment or maintenance areas that have vehicle and roadway emission
                        and dispersion characteristics essentially identical to those at sites where
                        violations have been verified by monitoring, and therefore require quantitative
                        pollutant hot-spot analysis. CDOT, the APCD, USEPA, and USDOT will:

                       III.C.3.a.         Determine which types of projects should be evaluated for
                                localized hot spots. CDOT, subject to concurrence by the Division, shall
                                identify the projects or categories of projects that shall be evaluated for
                                potential hot spots.

                       III.C.3.b.      Evaluate and choose a model (or models) and associated
                                methods and assumptions to be used in hot-spot analyses. CDOT shall
                                be responsible for selecting the hot spot model to be used for conformity
                                determinations.

      III.D.   Process for assuming the location and design concept and scope of projects disclosed to
               the MPO as required by paragraph (E) of this section in cases where sponsors have not
               yet decided these features in sufficient detail to perform the regional emissions analysis
               according to the requirements of 40 CFR Section 93.122.

               III.D.1. The MPO shall contact the sponsor of any project disclosed to the MPO pursuant
                        to Section III.E., but whose sponsors have not yet decided these features in
                        sufficient detail to perform the regional emissions analysis according to the
                        requirements of 40 CFR Section 93.122, and shall request that such sponsor
                        develop the location and design concept and scope of the project for the purpose
                        of including the project in the regional emissions analysis.

               III.D.2. If the sponsor is unwilling or unable to provide these features to the MPO in a
                        timely fashion, the MPO shall propose reasonable assumptions about such
                        features, and shall provide CDOT, the Division, the LPA, the project sponsor, and
                        any recipient of funds designated under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act
                        that has the authority to adopt or approve of the project, with a written description
                        of the proposed assumptions. Following consultation with such agencies the
                        MPO shall make assumptions about the location and design concept and scope
                        of the project that are reasonably calculated to estimate the emissions
                        associated with such project. Such assumptions shall be based on the
                        information and comments about the project received by the MPO.

      III.E.   Process to ensure that plans for construction of regionally significant projects that are not
               FHWA/FTA projects (including projects for which alternative locations, design concept
               and scope, or the no-build options are still being considered), including those by
               recipients of funds designated under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act, are
               disclosed on a regular basis, and that any changes to such plans are immediately
               disclosed.




                                                                                                              9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


               III.E.1. Prior to conducting a conformity analysis, the MPO shall ensure that CDOT and
                        each municipality, county and public transit agency within the metropolitan
                        planning area, and each agency with approval authority for transportation
                        projects , is notified of the requirement to include regionally-significant projects,
                        and changes to plans for such projects, in the regional emissions analysis.

      III.F.   Consultation procedures for development of State Implementation Plans.

               III.F.1. Minimum Consultation Requirements - SIP development and revision.

               In each nonattainment or maintenance area, the LPA or the Division shall establish and
               maintain a review team for regular consultation to ensure that the transportation
               community is involved in the development of the implementation plans. Such review team
               shall also be established to develop and review any SIP revision that includes a new or
               revised mobile source emissions budget, or that requires a new or revised attainment or
               maintenance demonstration. The review team may be part of a larger consultation
               procedure established by the LPA or Division to include all sectors of the community (in
               addition to the transportation community). The consultation procedure shall comply with
               the minimum requirements listed below. If the review team is established by the Division,
               the Division shall perform the tasks assigned to the LPA.

                       III.F.1.a.        The review team shall consist of representatives of the MPO, the
                                 Division, CDOT, the EPA, FHWA, FTA, and the public transit agency.

                       III.F.1.b.        The LPA shall begin consultation meetings early enough in the
                                 process for review team members to adequately review the modeling
                                 used to support the SIP, and to review the proposed control measures.
                                 The LPA must provide an opportunity to review copies of the draft
                                 implementation plan, including supporting documents, to the other
                                 members of the review team, and shall provide at least thirty days for the
                                 submission of comments on the draft SIP prior to adoption by the LPA.

                       III.F.1.c.           A schedule of meetings or a process for providing adequate
                                    notice of subsequent meetings shall be developed as part of the
                                    consultation process. The schedule of meetings shall be frequent
                                    enough to address all significant issues in a timely fashion.

                       III.F.1.d.         The LPA shall establish an agenda for each meeting, and shall
                                 include in such agenda any issue or item upon the request of any
                                 participant.

                       III.F.1.e.       Any member may, at any time, request a meeting to consult with
                                 the LPA and the other participants. Upon such a request the LPA should
                                 schedule a meeting as soon as practicable.

                       III.F.1.f. The LPA shall respond in written form to written comments received from
                                  any of the participants.

                       III.F.1.g.         SIPs and SIP revisions proposed by the LPA shall be subject to
                                 final approval by the Commission following a public hearing. The Division
                                 shall provide final copies of any SIP or SIP revision to the MPO, CDOT,
                                 the LPA, the public transit agency, the EPA, the FHWA, and FTA.




                                                                                                            10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


               III.F.2. The LPA shall submit a list of TCMs included in the proposed SIP to the MPO,
                        CDOT and each affected local agency or other sponsoring agency at least thirty
                        days prior to approval of the SIP or SIP revision by the governing board of the
                        LPA.

               III.F.3. The SIP development procedures set out in this Section III.F. shall be in addition
                        to any other rules or regulations applicable to SIP development or SIP revisions.
                        Nothing in this Section III.F. shall be construed to supersede, alter or amend
                        such other rules, or to incorporate such other requirements into the SIP.

      III.G.   Agreements further describing consultation procedures.

               III.G.1. The Division may enter into written agreements with the members of the review
                        team to clarify and further develop the procedures for conformity determinations
                        described in this Section III. The Division may also enter into written agreements
                        with the LPA and members of the committee established pursuant to Section
                        III.F. to further clarify or develop the SIP development procedures. The members
                        of the review team may, by mutual agreement, delegate the tasks assigned to
                        them under this rule to other members. Any member of the review team
                        delegating a task shall conduct reasonable oversight of the delegated task as
                        necessary to ensure proper performance.

               III.G.2. Nothing in this regulation shall be construed to relieve the parties of the
                        obligations set out in agreements entered into prior to the effective date of this
                        rule, except to the extent that the provisions of such agreements are inconsistent
                        with this rule. The Commission and Division shall continue membership on any
                        MPO committee or council as provided in any such agreements.

      III.H.   Review of Conformity Determinations by the public, the Air Quality Control Commission,
               and resolution of conflicts.

               III.H.1. Per, 40 CFR Section 93.105(e), agencies making conformity determinations—
                        i.e., MPO’s or CDOT--must provide for public review and comment prior to
                        adopting new or amended transportation plans-and programs.

                       III.H.1.a.       Agencies making conformity determinations must provide
                                reasonable public access to relevant documents, consistent with 23 CFR
                                Section 450.316(a). Any charges imposed for public inspection or
                                copying of documents would be consistent with USDOT regulations at 49
                                CFR Section 7.43.

                       III.H.1.b.        Agencies making conformity determinations must specifically
                                address in writing any public comments asserting that a regionally
                                significant project is not reflected in the emissions analysis supporting a
                                positive conformity finding.

                       III.H.1.c.        Agencies making conformity determinations shall provide
                                 opportunity for public involvement in conformity determinations for
                                 projects where otherwise required by law.




                                                                                                          11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


             III.H.2. The Division shall make a finding regarding which Conformity Determinations are
                      routine, per the definition set forth in this regulation. Routine Conformity
                      Determinations regarding a TIP or Plan shall be reviewed by the Division. For
                      instances in which the Division agrees that a positive Conformity Determination
                      has been made, it shall provide notice of concurrence with those determinations.
                      The Division shall make the determination regarding whether a Conformity
                      Determination is routine. If a Conformity Determination is non-routine, it shall be
                      brought before the Commission for its review and possible concurrence. The
                      Commission intends to conduct public meetings to review non-routine conformity
                      determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Air Quality
                      Control Commission Procedural Rules, and reserves the right to schedule such
                      meetings as permitted by the Commission’s schedule and as necessary to
                      comply with such procedural rules. However, this paragraph shall not be
                      construed to incorporate such procedural rules into the SIP. No violation of such
                      procedural rules shall be construed as a violation of the SIP, except where such
                      procedural rules otherwise has been incorporated into the SIP.

             III.H.3. Upon request of any member of the review team, a conformity determination on
                      an FHWA project located outside of a metropolitan planning area shall be
                      presented to the Commission prior to submittal to FHWA if there is a conflict that
                      cannot be resolved by the review team. The request for such review must be filed
                      as soon as practicable and shall not be filed any later than the first regularly
                      scheduled Commission meeting following the final conformity determination.

             III.H.4. In accordance with 40 CFR Section 93.105(d), conflicts among State agencies or
                      between State agencies and an MPO may be escalated to the Governor. Such
                      conflicts would render a Conformity Determination non-routine and subject to
                      review by the AQCC. The fourteen calendar-days in which to appeal a conflict to
                      the Governor shall commence upon review of a conformity determination by the
                      Commission pursuant to this Subsection H., except as provided below at
                      Sections (a) and (b). If the State appeals to the Governor, the final conformity
                      determination must have the concurrence of the Governor. If the Commission
                      does not appeal to the Governor within 14 days, or as provided below at Sections
                      (a) and (b), the MPO or CDOT may proceed with the final conformity
                      determination.

                     III.H.4.a.        The Commission may extend the beginning of the time to
                              escalate a conflict to the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting if
                              the entity making the conformity determination amends such
                              determination during the fourteen-day period preceding the Commission
                              meeting.

                     III.H.4.b.       Upon the agreement and concurrence of the entity making the
                              conformity determination, the Commission may extend the beginning of
                              the time to escalate a conflict as necessary to accommodate further
                              consultation among the agencies.

                     III.H.4.c.         For purposes of project level conformity determinations in
                               isolated rural nonattainment and maintenance areas, a “final conformity
                               determination” shall be taken to mean CDOT's completed conformity
                               analysis and recommended finding of conformity to FHWA.




                                                                                                      12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                              5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


IV.   Emission reduction credit for certain control measures.

      IV.A.   Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 93.122(a)(4), emissions reduction credit from
              implementation plan control measures that are not included in the transportation plan and
              TIP and that do not require a regulatory action in order to be implemented may not be
              included in the emissions analysis unless the conformity determination includes written
              commitments to implementation from the appropriate entities.

      IV.B.   Any entity making a written commitment to perform a control measure not included in the
              transportation plan or TIP shall fulfill such written commitment if the control measure is
              used for emissions reduction credit in a regional emissions analysis.

V.    Enforceability of design concept and scope and project-level mitigation and control measures.

      V.A.    Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 93.125 (c), where project-level mitigation is conditional to a
              positive conformity determination, written commitments to such mitigation measures must
              be obtained. Project sponsors shall comply with these commitments.

VI.   Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

      VI.A.   Amendments Adopted October 15, 1998

      The change to Regulation Number 10, “Criteria for Analysis of Conformity,” Part B,
      “Transportation Conformity” will establish criteria and procedures for making conformity
      determinations on transportation plans, transportation improvement programs (TIPs), FHWA/FTA
      projects, and consultation procedures for major revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP).

      Federal Requirements

      Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 51.390, Colorado must submit to the EPA and the U.S. Department
      of Transportation (DOT), a revision to the SIP to establish criteria and procedures for DOT,
      metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs), and state and local transportation and air quality
      agencies to assess the conformity of transportation plans, programs, and projects, consistent with
      the requirements of 40 CFR, Part 93, Subpart A.

      The states may incorporate the substantive criteria for making conformity determinations set out
      in the federal rule, into the state rule by reference. The rule adopted by the Commission takes
      advantage of this opportunity and incorporates the criteria in 40 CFR Part 93, Subpart A by
      reference.

      The federal rule also requires the states to develop procedures for interagency consultation on
      transportation conformity determinations, and for SIP revisions. The federal rule establishes
      minimum requirements for such consultation procedures, but does not actually establish any
      procedures. Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 51.390 and 93.105, the states must develop and adopt
      such procedures, and submit the procedures to EPA for inclusion in the SIP. The rule adopted by
      the Commission establishes procedures for interagency consultation, and addresses each of the
      topics required by 40 CFR Section 93.105. The consultation procedure established in the rule is
      intended to create a meaningful interagency consultation process that complies with the federal
      requirements, but that provides the flexibility necessary to meet the needs of the Colorado
      Department of Transportation and the various MPOs in the State. The interagency consultation
      requirements track the minimum federal requirements, and are not otherwise more stringent than
      the federal requirements.




                                                                                                      13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


      The only provision in the rule that differs from the federal rule is the definition of the term
      “regionally significant project” contained in the state rule. The state rule includes a definition
      applicable to rural nonattainment areas that do not conduct modeling of the area’s transportation
      network. The federal rule appears to assume that all nonattainment areas conduct such
      modeling. The specific definition in the rule for rural areas is necessary to reconcile the federal
      rule with the general practice in rural nonattainment areas, but is not more stringent than federal
      requirements.

      Contested Issues

      One MPO urged the Commission to adopt a rule requiring a public meeting to be held prior to
      final action by the MPO. The rule is written to allow flexibility, so that MPOs have the option of
      coming to the Commission either before or after their governing board takes final action on the
      conformity determination. However, the Commission strongly encourages the MPOs to submit a
      draft conformity determination to the AQCC for comment, so that the MPO can take the
      Commission’s comments into account as early in the process as possible.

      Statutory Authority

      The transportation conformity rule is adopted under the Commission’s general authority to adopt
      a SIP under Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S. (1997).

      Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

      The portion of the rule incorporating the federal criteria for making conformity determinations is
      exempt from the requirements of Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. (1997). The consultation
      requirements are administrative in nature, and are exempt from the requirements of Section 25-7-
      110.8(1)(b), C.R.S. The interagency consultation requirements establish a procedure for ensuring
      that the federal, state and local air quality agencies charged with protecting human health and the
      environment are consulted during the transportation conformity process. In this way, the rule will
      bring about reductions in risks to human health or the environment that will justify the cost of
      implementation of the rule. The rule adopted by the Commission complies with the minimum
      federal requirements and maximizes the air quality benefits of the regulation in the most cost-
      effective manner. No other party proposed any alternative rule that would accomplish this result in
      a more cost-effective manner.

      VI.B.   Amendments Adopted November 20, 2008

      Transportation Conformity Update

      Background

      This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements
      of the Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution
      Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

      Basis and Purpose

      These revisions to “Part B, “Transportation Conformity,” update the Regulation to incorporate by
      reference revisions to the federal rule, and to recognize Colorado-specific practices.

      The incorporations by reference adopt revisions to federal conformity regulations adopted by the
      EPA since 1997. Most of these revisions have streamlined processes and relaxed requirements.




                                                                                                       14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                               5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


      The revisions add language that addresses 40 CFR Section 93.122(a)(4)(ii) regarding obtaining
      and ensuring the fulfillment of written commitments to SIP control measures needed to achieve or
      maintain national ambient air quality standards that are not included in transportation plans or
      programs. These revisions also add language that addresses Section 93.125(c) regarding
      obtaining and ensuring the fulfillment of written commitments to transportation project mitigation
      measures. These are not new federal provisions, but they are newly required to be “addressed,”
      i.e., made explicit in state conformity implementation plans.

      These revisions also make non-substantive changes including correcting citations, clarifying
      language, and striking of unnecessary or confusing language.

      Federal Requirements

      Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 51.390, Colorado must submit to the EPA and the U.S. Department
      of Transportation (DOT), a revision to the SIP to establish criteria and procedures for DOT,
      metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs), and state and local transportation and air quality
      agencies to assess the conformity of transportation plans, programs, and projects, consistent with
      the requirements of 40 CFR, Part 93, Subpart A. The states may incorporate the substantive
      criteria for making conformity determinations set out in the federal rule, into the state rule by
      reference. The rule adopted by the Commission takes advantage of this opportunity and
      incorporates the criteria in 40 CFR Part 93, Subpart A by reference.

      The federal rule also requires the states to develop procedures for interagency consultation on
      transportation conformity determinations, and for SIP revisions. The federal rule establishes
      minimum requirements for such consultation procedures, and requires States to establish these
      consultation procedures, including consultation with the public and conflict resolution at 40 CFR,
      Sections 93.105 (c) and (d). Pursuant to 40 CFR Sections 51.390 and 93.105, the states must
      develop and adopt such procedures, and submit the procedures to EPA for inclusion in the SIP.
      Pursuant to 40 CFR Sections 93.122(a)(4)(ii) and 93.125(c), States must also address the
      obtainment and enforceability of written commitments to SIP control measures not included in
      transportation plan as well as transportation project mitigation measures.

      Statutory Authority

      This transportation conformity rule is adopted under the Commission’s general authority to adopt
      a SIP under Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S. (1997).

      Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

      The portion of the rule incorporating the federal criteria for making conformity determinations is
      exempt from the requirements of Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. (1997). The revisions addressing
      public consultation, conflict resolution, written commitments to SIP control measures not
      contained in transportation plans and project-level mitigation conditional to a conformity
      determination track the requirements in federal rules and are mandated by federal law. These
      revisions provide for written commitment to incorporate mitigation measures into project design
      for transportation projects. Mitigation measures are frequently necessary to reduce localized
      emissions associated with transportation project construction, but rarely relied upon for conformity
      determinations. Where such commitments are necessary for a positive conformity determination,
      they must be enforced so as to reduce risks to human health or the environment, which justifies
      the cost of implementation of the rule. The rule adopted by the Commission complies with the
      minimum federal requirements and maximizes the air quality benefits of the regulation in the most
      cost-effective manner. No other party proposed any alternative rule that would accomplish this
      result in a more cost-effective manner.




                                                                                                       15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


      VI.C.   Amendments Adopted December 15, 2011

      Basis and Purpose

      The purpose of these amendments is to streamline the transportation conformity process by
      allowing the Colorado Air Pollution Control Division to provide concurrence with routine
      transportation conformity determinations without the need for a public hearing before the
      Colorado Air Quality Control Commission. This change to the conformity process is allowed for
      under federal law and will reduce the burden on the AQCC, the Division and transportation
      planning organizations, while ensuring that air quality requirements are met. In addition, the
      amendments include a number of clarifying provisions that will help facilitate the implementation
      of the regulation. In addition to streamlining the transportation conformity process, these
      amendments include a number of housekeeping changes made at the request of EPA, including
      removing incorporations by reference to federal general conformity regulations. Inclusion of these
      requirements in Regulation Number 10, and the State Implementation Plan is not required and is
      unnecessary to the general conformity process.

      Specific Statutory Authority

      The Commission promulgates these regulatory changes pursuant to its authority under Section
      25-7-105(1)(a)(I), C.R.S. to adopt a comprehensive state implementation plan that meets the
      requirements of the federal Clean Air Act.

      Findings Pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

      The revisions to Regulation Number 10 are administrative in nature and are not intended to
      reduce air pollution. Rather, the revisions are intended to streamline the transportation conformity
      process and clarify existing requirements, while maintaining the air quality benefits of the existing
      rule. Accordingly, the requirements of Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. do not apply to this rulemaking.

      VI.D.   Adopted: February 18, 2016

      This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements
      of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air
      Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”), and
      the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

      Basis

      The Commission revised the definition of “routine conformity determination” to grant the Colorado
      Air Pollution Control Division (“Division”) the authority to provide concurrence with a wider range
      of transportation conformity determinations thus streamlining the conformity process.

      Specific Statutory Authority

      The purpose of Regulation Number 10 is to fulfill the requirement in 40 CFR 51.390(b) to
      establish a SIP revision that addresses the provisions of Sections 40 CFR 93.105(a) through (e),
      40 CFR 93.122(a)(4)(ii), and 40 CFR 93.125(c) of the federal transportation conformity rule (see
      40 CFR Part 93, Subpart A). The Colorado Air Pollution and Control Act, Section 25-7-
      105(1)(a)(I), authorizes the Commission to adopt a comprehensive state implementation plan that
      meets the requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and Section 25-7-106(3) authorizes the
      Commission to adopt regulations governing procedures before the Commission.




                                                                                                        16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-12
Air Quality Control Commission


        Purpose

        The purpose of this amendment is to streamline the transportation conformity process by allowing
        the Division to provide concurrence with a wider range of routine transportation conformity
        determinations without the need for a public hearing before the Commission. This change to the
        routine conformity determination definition will reduce the burden on the Commission, the Division
        and transportation planning organizations, while ensuring that air quality requirements are met.

        Findings of Fact

        The revisions to Regulation Number 10 are administrative in nature and are not intended to
        reduce air pollution. Rather, the revisions are intended to streamline the transportation conformity
        process while maintaining the air quality benefits of the existing rule. Accordingly, the
        requirements of § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. do not apply to this rulemaking.

        Further, the Commission corrected any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors found
        within the regulation.

____________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2012.
Entire rule eff. 03/30/2016.




                                                                                                         17
