CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado



    Department of Public Health and Environment

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 3
    STATIONARY SOURCE PERMITTING AND AIR POLLUTANT EMISSION NOTICE
    REQUIREMENTS
    5 CCR 1001-5

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A        Concerning General Provisions Applicable to Reporting and Permitting

    PART B        Concerning Construction Permits

    PART C        Concerning Operating Permits

    PART D        Concerning Major Stationary Source New Source Review and Prevention
           of Significant Deterioration

    PART E        Reserved for Environmental Management Systems

    PART F        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

    PART A        CONCERNING GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REPORTING
    AND PERMITTING
    I.     Applicability
    I.A.   The provisions of this Part A shall apply statewide to all sources of air pollutants
           except as otherwise provided herein.

    All sources of air pollutants that have previously obtained an emissions permit (prior to
    July 1, 1992) or a construction permit, and are subject only to the Part B Construction
    Permit Program, may choose to reapply for a new construction permit pursuant to Part
    B of this Regulation Number 3 in order to obtain the operational flexibility provided in
    Section IV. of this Part A, or to obtain federally enforceable limitations to limit the
    source's potential to emit (“synthetic minor”). Sources of air pollutants that are subject




                                                                                                  1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

only to the Part B Construction Permit Program may voluntarily apply for an Operating
Permit pursuant to Part C.

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated
by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Technical Secretary of the Air Quality
Control Commission (the Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver,
Colorado 80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference is also available through
the United States Government Printing Office, online at www.gpo.gov/fdsys. Materials
incorporated by reference are those editions in existence as of the date of this
regulation as promulgated or revised by the Commission and references do not include
later amendments to or editions of the incorporated materials.

I.B.   Definitions

       I.B.1. Administrative Permit Amendment.

              I.B.1.a.       A permit revision that:

                     I.B.1.a.(i)     Corrects typographical errors;

                     I.B.1.a.(ii)    Identifies a change in the name, address, or phone
                             number of any person identified in the permit, or provides a
                             similar minor administrative change at the source;

                     I.B.1.a.(iii)   Requires more frequent monitoring or reporting by the
                             permittee;

                     I.B.1.a.(iv)    Allows for a change in ownership or operational
                             control of a source where the Division determines that no
                             other change in the permit is necessary, provided that a
                             written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of
                             permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between the
                             current and new permittee has been submitted to the
                             Division;

              I.B.1.b.       An administrative permit amendment for purposes of the
                     acid rain portion of a permit shall be governed by regulations


                                                                                            2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act, found at Code of
                   Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72.

     I.B.2. Administrator

     The administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA).

     I.B.3. Adverse Environmental Effect

     As a term used in the context of regulating hazardous air pollutants, any
     significant and widespread adverse effect, that may reasonably be anticipated, to
     wildlife, aquatic life, or other natural resources, including adverse impacts on
     populations of endangered or threatened species or significant degradation of
     environmental quality over broad areas.

     I.B.4. (State Only) Affected Construction Source

     For the purposes of this Regulation Number 3:

            I.B.4.a.        A new source, or a modification to an existing source, is
                   considered to be an Affected Construction Source if:

                   I.B.4.a.(i)     The permit application would (for a new source) have
                            requested permitted emissions, or would (in the case of a
                            modification) increase the source’s requested permitted
                            emissions of one or more Affected Pollutants, excluding
                            benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene, in an amount
                            exceeding an established, applicable Significant Rate of
                            Emissions defined in Section I.B.49 of this Part A; and/or

                   I.B.4.a.(ii)    The new source for which the permit application was
                            submitted would have estimated annual actual emissions in
                            an amount exceeding two tons per year or more of benzene,
                            toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylene individually, or five tons per
                            year or more of any combination of benzene, toluene,
                            ethylbenzene, and xylene; and/or




                                                                                          3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   I.B.4.a.(iii)   The modification to an existing source for which the
                            permit application was submitted would increase the
                            source’s estimated annual actual emissions in an amount
                            exceeding one ton per year or more of either benzene,
                            toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylene at a source with existing
                            permitted emissions exceeding the thresholds outlined in
                            Section I.B.4.a.(ii) of this Part A.

     I.B.5. (State Only) Affected Pollutants

     For the purposes of this Regulation Number 3, means volatile organic
     compounds, nitrogen oxides, PM2.5, benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and/or
     xylene.

     I.B.6. Affected States

     All states whose air quality may be affected by issuance of an operating permit,
     operating permit modification, or operating permit renewal and that are
     contiguous to Colorado; and/or all states that are within fifty miles of a permitted
     source.

     I.B.7. Affected Unit

     A unit that is subject to any acid rain emissions reduction requirement or acid rain
     emissions limitation pursuant to Title IV of the Federal Act or regulations
     promulgated there under, in the Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72.

     I.B.8. Air Pollutant

     Means carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, PM10, PM2.5, total
     suspended particulates, ozone, volatile organic compounds, lead, all pollutants
     regulated under Section 111 of the Federal Act (Regulation Number 6), all
     hazardous air pollutants, and all class I and class II ozone depleting compounds
     as defined and referenced in Section 602 of the Federal Act.

     I.B.9. (State Only) Air Quality Enterprise




                                                                                            4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     The Air Quality Enterprise created by Colorado Revised Statutes Section 25-7-
     103.5.

     I.B.10. Allowable Emissions

     The emissions rate of a stationary source calculated using the maximum rated
     capacity of the source (unless the source is subject to federally enforceable or
     enforceable as a practical matter, permit conditions that restrict the operating rate
     or hours of operation, or both) and the most stringent of the following:

              I.B.10.a.     The applicable standards promulgated pursuant to the
                     Federal Act for new source performance or hazardous air
                     pollutants;

              I.B.10.b.     The applicable Colorado Emission Control Regulation; or

              I.B.10.c.     The emissions rate specified as a federally enforceable, or
                     enforceable as a practical matter, permit condition, including those
                     with a future compliance date.

     I.B.11. Annual Actual Emissions

     The actual rate of emissions of a pollutant. Annual actual emissions shall be
     calculated using the source’s actual operating rates, and types of materials
     processed, stored, or combusted during the calendar year.

     I.B.12. Applicable Requirement

     Means all of the following as they apply to emissions units in a source subject to
     operating permit requirements of this regulation (including requirements that
     have been promulgated or approved by the U.S. EPA through rulemaking at the
     time of permit issuance but have future effective compliance dates);

              I.B.12.a.     Any term or condition of any construction permit issued
                     pursuant to Part B of this Regulation Number 3, or any such term or
                     condition as modified by procedures authorized by the operating
                     permit program pursuant to Parts B and C of this Regulation, or any
                     permit issued under Part C or Part D of the Federal Act, except that



                                                                                            5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  state-only permit terms or conditions shall remain enforceable
                  solely pursuant to state law;

           I.B.12.b.     Any standard or other requirement provided for in the state
                  implementation plan;

           I.B.12.c.     Any standard or other requirement under Section 111 of the
                  Federal Act (New Source Performance Standards), including
                  Section 111(d) of the Federal Act (Standards of Performance for
                  existing sources) (Regulation Number 6);

           I.B.12.d.     Any standard or other requirement under Section 112 of the
                  Federal Act (hazardous air pollutants, including any requirement
                  concerning accident prevention under Section 112(r)(7) of the
                  Federal Act) (Regulation Number 8) but not including the contents
                  of any risk management plan required under Section 112(r) of the
                  Federal Act;

           I.B.12.e.     Any requirements for monitoring and compliance assurance
                  monitoring methods and procedures to ensure compliance with
                  permit requirements, including periodic monitoring and testing, and
                  compliance certifications, established pursuant to Sections 504(b)
                  or 114(a)(3) of the Federal Act;

           I.B.12.f.     Any standards or other requirement under the Code of
                  Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72 (acid deposition control);

           I.B.12.g.     Any standard or other requirement governing solid waste
                  incineration;

           I.B.12.h.     Any standard or other requirement for consumer and
                  commercial products;

           I.B.12.i.     Any standard or other requirement of the regulations
                  promulgated to protect stratospheric ozone under Title VI of the
                  Federal Act, except where the Administrator has determined such




                                                                                       6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   requirement need not be contained in an operating permit
                   (Regulation Number 15);

            I.B.12.j.     Any national ambient air quality standard or increment or
                   visibility requirement under Part C of Title I of the Federal Act, but
                   only as it would apply to temporary sources permitted pursuant to
                   Part C of this Regulation Number 3.

     I.B.13. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)

     A metric used to compare the emissions from various GHG classes based upon
     their global warming potential (GWP). The CO2e is determined by multiplying the
     mass amount of emissions (tons per year), for each GHG constituent by that
     gas’s GWP, and summing the resultant values to determine CO2e (tons per
     year). The applicable GWPs codified in 40 CFR Part 98, Subpart A, Table A-1 –
     Global Warming Potentials (January 1, 2025) are hereby incorporated by
     reference.

     I.B.14. Commence, also Commence Construction

     When the owner or operator has obtained all necessary pre-construction
     approvals or permits required by federal, state, or local air pollution and air
     quality laws and regulations and has either; (a) begun, or caused to begin, a
     continuous program of physical onsite construction of the source, or (b) entered
     into binding agreements or contractual obligation that cannot be cancelled or
     modified without substantial loss to the owner or operator, to undertake a
     program of actual construction of the source to be completed within a reasonable
     time. The following activities do not require the owner or operator to obtain a
     permit: 1) planning; 2) site clearing and grading; 3) ordering of equipment and
     materials; 4) storing of equipment; 5) setting up temporary trailers to house
     construction management staff and contractor personnel; 6) engineering and
     design; and 7) geotechnical investigation. In the event that the source does not
     qualify for issuance of a permit, the owner or operator accepts the financial risk of
     commencing these activities.




                                                                                            7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     I.B.15. Commencement of Operation

     A new source commences operation when it first conducts the activity that it was
     designed and permitted for (i.e., producing cement or generating electricity). In
     addition, for oil and gas well production facilities, commencement of operations is
     the date any permanent production equipment is in use and product is
     consistently flowing to sales lines, gathering lines or storage tanks from the first
     producing well at the stationary source, but no later than end of well completion
     operations (including flowback).

     I.B.16. Construction Permit

     Means the same as an emission permit as required under Part B of this
     regulation as it existed prior to July 1, 1992, and is the permit required under
     Colorado Revised Statutes Section 25-7-114.2 after July 1, 1992.

     I.B.17. Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS)

     All of the equipment that is required to meet the data acquisition and availability
     requirements of Part D or of a permit issued in accordance with Parts B or C, to
     sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of emissions on a
     continuous basis.

     I.B.18. Continuous Emissions Rate Monitoring Systems (CERMS)

     The total equipment required for the determination and recording of the pollutant
     mass emissions rate (in terms of mass per unit of time).

     I.B.19. Continuous Parameter Monitoring System (CPMS)

     All of the equipment necessary to meet the data acquisition and availability
     requirements of Part D of this Regulation, to monitor process and control device
     operational parameters (for example, control device secondary voltages and
     electric currents) and other information (for example, gas flow rate, O2 or CO2
     concentrations), and to record average operational parameter value(s) on a
     continuous basis.

     I.B.20. Criteria Pollutants



                                                                                            8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     Those pollutants for which the U.S. EPA has established national ambient air
     quality standards, including: carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide (direct emissions
     and as a precursor to ozone and PM2.5), sulfur dioxide (direct emissions and as
     a precursor to PM2.5), PM10, PM2.5, total suspended particulate matter, ozone,
     volatile organic compounds (as a precursor to ozone), and lead.

     For the purposes of Air Pollutant Emission Notice reporting, criteria pollutants
     shall also include nitrogen oxides, fluorides, sulfuric acid mist, hydrogen sulfide,
     total reduced sulfur, reduced sulfur compounds, municipal waste combustor
     organics, municipal waste combustor metals, and municipal waste combustor
     acid gases.

     I.B.21. (State Only) Cumulatively Impacted Community

     Prior to January 14, 2026, for purposes of this Regulation Number 3, the
     Commission identifies a Cumulatively Impacted Community as any census block
     group where multiple factors, including socioeconomic stressors, vulnerable
     populations, disproportionate environmental burdens, vulnerability to
     environmental degradation or climate change, and lack of public participation
     may act cumulatively to affect health and the environment and may contribute to
     persistent disparities. Only census block groups included within the Air Quality
     Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation (Reg.) 3 Disproportionately Impacted
     Community Layer in Version 1.0 of Colorado EnviroScreen that have a Colorado
     EnviroScreen score above the 80th percentile are Cumulatively Impacted C

     Beginning January 14, 2026, only census block groups included within the
     criteria for “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above 80” in the
     Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November 2024) are Cumulatively
     Impacted Communities.

     I.B.22. Designated Representative

     Means a responsible natural person authorized by the owners and operators of
     an affected source and of all affected units at the source, as evidenced by a
     certificate of representation submitted in accordance with Subpart B of Code of



                                                                                            9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 72, to represent and legally bind each owner
     and operator, as a matter of law, in matters pertaining to the acid rain program.
     Whenever the term responsible official is used, it shall be deemed to refer to the
     designated representative with regard to all matters under the acid rain program.

     I.B.23. (State Only) Disproportionately Impacted Community

     Means a census block group that satisfies one or more of the following:

           I.B.23.a.     The proportion of the population living in households that are
                  below two hundred percent of the federal poverty level is greater
                  than forty percent;

           I.B.23.b.     The proportion of households that spend more than thirty
                  percent of household income on housing is greater than fifty
                  percent;

           I.B.23.c.     The proportion of the population that identifies as people of
                  color is greater than forty percent;

           I.B.23.d.     The proportion of the population that is linguistically isolated
                  is greater than twenty percent;

           I.B.23.e.     Multiple factors, including socioeconomic stressors,
                  vulnerable populations, disproportionate environmental burdens,
                  vulnerability to environmental degradation or climate change, and
                  lack of public participation may act cumulatively to affect health and
                  the environment and may contribute to persistent disparities; or

           I.B.23.f.     It is a mobile home community.

     Prior to January 14, 2026, for purposes of this Regulation Number 3, the
     Commission identifies a Disproportionately Impacted Community as any census
     block group identified in the Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation
     (Reg.) 3 Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer in Version 1.0 of
     Colorado EnviroScreen.




                                                                                         10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     Beginning January 14, 2026, a Disproportionately Impacted Community is
     identified as any census block group identified in the Disproportionately Impacted
     Community Map (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
     communities”, “low-income population above 40%”, “People of color population
     above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population above 50%”, “Linguistically
     isolated population above 20%”, and “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score
     above 80”.

     I.B.24. Draft Permit

     Means a proposed form of a permit that is released to the public for an
     opportunity for public comment and hearing, and for affected state review prior to
     the Division's final decision on a permit application.

     I.B.25. Existing Source

     An air pollutant source that has been constructed, is in operation, or has received
     an initial approval of a construction permit prior to the effective date of applicable
     requirements.

     I.B.26. Fugitive Dust

     For purposes of this Regulation Number 3, fugitive dust means soil or other
     airborne particulate matter (excluding particulates produced directly during
     combustion) resulting from natural forces or from surface use or disturbance,
     including, but not limited to, all dust from agriculture, construction, forestry,
     unpaved roads, mining, exploration, or similar activities in which earth is either
     moved, stored, transported, or redistributed; except that fugitive dust shall not
     include any fraction of such soil or other airborne particulate matter that is of a
     size or substance to adversely affect public health or welfare.

     I.B.27. General Permit

     Means a single permit issued to cover numerous similar sources.

     I.B.28. Greenhouse Gas (GHG)




                                                                                           11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     Means the aggregate group of the following six greenhouse gases: carbon
     dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs),
     perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). These gases are treated
     in aggregate based on the total carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) as the
     pollutant GHG. See definition for carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). For
     purposes of a GHG PAL, these gases shall not be subject to regulation if the
     stationary source maintains its total source-wide emissions below the GHG PAL
     level, meets the requirements of Part D, Section XV., and complies with the PAL
     permit containing the GHG PAL.

     I.B.29. Indirect Source

     A facility, building, structure, or installation, or any combination thereof, excluding
     dwellings, which can reasonably be expected to cause or induce substantial
     mobile source activity that results in emissions of air pollutants that might
     reasonably be expected to interfere with the attainment and maintenance of
     National Ambient Air Quality Standards.

     I.B.30. Major Source

     Any stationary source or group of stationary sources belonging to the same
     industrial grouping (see Section I.B.52. of this Part A), that are located on one or
     more contiguous or adjacent properties and are under common control of the
     same person (or persons under common control) that:




                                                                                          12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.B.30.a.      Directly emits, or has the potential to emit considering
                  enforceable controls, in the aggregate, ten tons per year or more of
                  any hazardous air pollutant or twenty-five tons per year or more of
                  any combination of hazardous air pollutants, or such lesser quantity
                  of hazardous air pollutants as may be established pursuant to the
                  Federal Act. Emissions from any oil or gas exploration or production
                  well (with its associated equipment) and emissions from any
                  pipeline compressor or pump station shall not be aggregated with
                  emissions from other similar units, whether or not such units are in
                  a contiguous area or under common control, to determine whether
                  such units or stations are major sources, and in the case of any oil
                  or gas exploration or production well (with its associated
                  equipment), such emissions shall not be aggregated for any
                  purpose under this provision. Fugitive emissions shall be
                  considered in determining whether a stationary source of
                  hazardous air pollutants is a major source.

           I.B.30.b.      Directly emits, or has the potential to emit, one hundred tons
                  per year or more of any pollutant subject to regulation. Fugitive
                  emissions shall not be considered in determining whether a source
                  is a major source for purposes of this Section I.B.30.b., unless the
                  source belongs to one of the following categories of stationary
                  sources:

                  I.B.30.b.(i)    Coal cleaning plants (with thermal dryers);

                  I.B.30.b.(ii)   Kraft pulp mills;

                  I.B.30.b.(iii) Portland cement plants;

                  I.B.30.b.(iv) Primary zinc smelters;

                  I.B.30.b.(v)    Iron and steel mills;

                  I.B.30.b.(vi) Primary aluminum ore reduction plants;

                  I.B.30.b.(vii) Primary copper smelters;


                                                                                      13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.B.30.b.(viii) Municipal incinerators capable of charging more than
                        250 tons of refuse per day;

                 I.B.30.b.(ix) Hydrofluoric, sulfuric, or nitric acid plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(x)    Petroleum refineries;

                 I.B.30.b.(xi) Lime plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xii) Phosphate rock processing plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xiii) Coke oven batteries;

                 I.B.30.b.(xiv) Sulfur recovery plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xv) Carbon black plants (furnace process);

                 I.B.30.b.(xvi) Primary lead smelters;

                 I.B.30.b.(xvii) Fuel conversion plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xviii)      Sintering plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xix) Secondary metal production plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xx) Chemical process plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxi) Fossil-fuel boilers (or combination thereof) totaling
                        more than 250 million British thermal units per hour heat
                        input;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxii) Petroleum storage and transfer units with a total
                        storage capacity exceeding 300,000 barrels;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxiii)      Taconite ore processing plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxiv)       Glass fiber processing plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxv) Charcoal production plants;

                 I.B.30.b.(xxvi)       Fossil fuel-fired steam electric plants of more
                        than 250 million British thermal units per hour heat input; or

                 I.B.30.b.(xxvii)      Any other stationary source categories
                        regulated by a standard promulgated as of August 7, 1980


                                                                                         14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                            under Section 111 or 112 of the Federal Act, but only with
                            respect to those air pollutants that have been regulated for
                            that category.

            I.B.30.c.       Meets any of the definitions of major stationary source set
                   forth in Section II.A.25. of Part D of this Regulation Number 3.

     I.B.31. Minor Source

     Any stationary source that does not qualify as a major source (as defined in
     Section I.B.30.).

     I.B.32. Mobile Source

     Motor vehicles and other sources of air pollution that emit pollutants while moving
     and that commonly do not remain at one site (one or more contiguous or
     adjacent properties owned or operated by the same person or by persons under
     common control), but does not include portable sources.

     I.B.33. Modification

     Any physical change in, or change in the method of operation of, a stationary
     source that does not meet the definition of major modification (as defined in
     Section II.A.23. of Part D of this regulation), and that increases the emission rate
     of any pollutant for which a federal or state emission standard has been
     promulgated or that results in the emission of any such pollutant previously not
     emitted. The following exceptions apply:

            I.B.33.a.       Routine maintenance, repair, and replacement shall not be
                   considered a physical change;

            I.B.33.b.       Unless previously limited by enforceable permit terms and
                   conditions, the following shall not be considered to be a change in
                   the method of operation:

                   I.B.33.b.(i)    An increase in the production rate if such increase
                            does not exceed the design capacity of the source and does
                            not lead to emissions in excess of the emission standards;



                                                                                           15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.B.33.b.(ii)   An increase in the hours of operation that does not
                          lead to emissions in excess of the emission standards.

                  I.B.33.b.(iii) Use of an alternative fuel or raw material by reason of
                          an order in effect under Sections 2(a) and (b) of the Federal
                          Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974
                          (or any superseding legislation), a prohibition under the
                          Federal Power Plan and Industrial Fuel Act of 1978 (or any
                          superseding legislation) or by reason of a natural gas
                          curtailment plan in effect pursuant to the Federal Power Act;

                  I.B.33.b.(iv) Use of an alternative fuel by reason of an order or rule
                          under Section 125 of the Federal Act; or

                  I.B.33.b.(v)    Change in ownership of the source.

           I.B.33.c.      Emissions resulting from construction and exploration shall
                  be excluded in determining whether a modification will occur.
                  Emissions from ongoing construction, and emissions from natural
                  gas flaring are not considered to be temporary emissions, and are
                  included in determining whether a modification will occur.

           I.B.33.d.      This definition shall not be used as a definition of major
                  modification or minor permit modification (as defined in Section
                  I.A.2. of Part C of this regulation) – these are distinct and separate
                  definitions.

           I.B.33.e.      Any physical change or change in the method of operation at
                  a source with an operating permit issued pursuant to Part C of this
                  Regulation Number 3, that does not constitute a major modification
                  (as defined in Part D, Section II.A.23. of this Regulation Number 3)
                  and that does not trigger new source performance standards or
                  hazardous air pollutant requirements under the Federal Act is not
                  considered to be a modification; except that any such change shall
                  trigger the provisions of Part B, Section III.D.1.a. through III.D.1.g.,



                                                                                        16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   and Part C, Sections X.A., and Part C Sections XII.A. or XII.B., as
                   appropriate.




                    for Administrative Permit Amendment see Section I.B.1.
                    of Part A

                    for Minor Permit Modification, see Section I.A.2. of Part
                    C

                    for Major Modification, see Section II.A.23. of Part D

                    for Permit Modification, see Section I.A.3. of Part C

                    for Permit Revision, see Section I.B.40. of Part A

                    for Significant Permit Modification, see Section I.A.7. of
                    Part C

     I.B.34. New Source

     A stationary air pollution source, other than an existing source; or any source that
     resumes operation after being inactive for more than one year after having been
     shut down for the purpose of eliminating emissions that violated any applicable
     emission control regulation or regulation for the control of hazardous air
     pollutants.

     I.B.35. Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants

     The list of pollutants set forth in Appendix B and those ozone-depleting
     compounds listed in Section 602 of the Federal Act.

     I.B.36. Non-Road Engine

            I.B.36.a.     Except as discussed in Section I.B.36.b. of this definition, a
                   non-road engine is an internal combustion engine:




                                                                                       17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.B.36.a.(i)    In or on a piece of equipment that is self-propelled or
                          serves a dual purpose by both propelling itself and
                          performing another function (such as garden tractors, off-
                          highway mobile cranes and bulldozers); or

                  I.B.36.a.(ii)   In or on a piece of equipment that is intended to be
                          propelled while performing its function (such as lawnmowers
                          and string trimmers); or

                  I.B.36.a.(iii) That, by itself or in or on a piece of equipment is
                          portable or transportable, meaning designed to be and
                          capable of being carried or moved from one location to
                          another. Indicia of transportability include, but are not limited
                          to wheels, skids, carrying handles, dolly, trailer or platform.

           I.B.36.b.      An internal combustion engine is not a non-road engine if:

                  I.B.36.b.(i)    The engine is used to propel a motor vehicle or a
                          vehicle used solely for competition, or is subject to standards
                          promulgated under Section 202 of the Federal Act; or

                  I.B.36.b.(ii)   The engine is regulated by a federal New Source
                          Performance Standard promulgated under Section 111 of the
                          Federal Act; or

                  I.B.36.b.(iii) The engine otherwise included in Section I.B.36.a.(iii)
                          of this definition remains or will remain at a location for more
                          than twelve consecutive months or a shorter period of time
                          for an engine located as a seasonal source. A location is any
                          single site at a building, structure, facility, or installation. Any
                          engine (or engines) that replaces an engine at a location and
                          that is intended to perform the same or similar function as
                          the engine replaced will be included in calculating the
                          consecutive time period. An engine located at a seasonal
                          source is an engine that remains at a seasonal source



                                                                                            18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          during the full annual operating period of the seasonal
                          source. A seasonal source is a stationary source that
                          remains in a single location on a permanent basis (i.e., at
                          least two years) and that operates at a single location
                          approximately three months (or more) each year. This
                          Section does not apply to an engine after the engine is
                          removed from the location.

           I.B.36.c.      (State-only Requirements) Non-road engines not co-located
                  at an existing major source

           An operator of a non-road engine as defined in Section I.B.36.a.(iii), with a
           manufacturer’s site-rated horsepower of 1,200 or greater, or an
           aggregation of such non-road engines each with a manufacturer’s site-
           rated horsepower of 1,200 or greater, that operate more than 4,380 hours
           per year at the same location are subject to the following state-only
           requirements:

                  I.B.36.c.(i)    Submit an air pollutant emission notice and pay the
                          appropriate fees pursuant to Section VI. of Part A of this
                          regulation;

                  I.B.36.c.(ii)   Submit an application for a site-specific, temporary,
                          non-road engine permit on forms supplied by the Division if
                          the estimated annual actual emissions reported on the Air
                          Pollutant Emission Notice, as required by Section I.B.36.c.(i),
                          are equal to or exceed one hundred tons per year or more of
                          nitrogen oxides, 100 tons per year or more of carbon
                          monoxide, or forty tons per year or more of sulfur dioxide.
                          After receipt and review of a complete application, the
                          Division shall issue a state-only non-road engine permit
                          containing such terms and conditions as are necessary to
                          protect the ambient air quality standards.




                                                                                          19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.B.36.c.(iii) The operator of a non-road engine that is exempt
                          based on hours of operation or the annual emissions
                          thresholds, must maintain sufficient records to verify that the
                          engine or engines are exempt from the state-only reporting
                          and permit requirements. Such records shall be made
                          available for Division review upon request.

           I.B.36.d.      (State-only Requirements) Non-road engines co-located at
                  an existing major source of nitrogen oxides or sulfur dioxide

           An operator of a non-road engine or aggregation of engines each with a
           manufacturer’s site-rated horsepower of 1,200 or greater, and are non-
           road engines under Section I.B.36.a.(iii) of this definition, are subject to
           the following state-only requirements:

                  I.B.36.d.(i)    Submit an air pollutant emission notice and pay the
                          fees required by Section VI. of this Part;

                  I.B.36.d.(ii)   Submit an application for a site-specific, temporary,
                          state-only non-road engine permit on forms supplied by the
                          Division if the estimated annual actual emissions reported on
                          the air pollutant emission notice, as required by Section
                          I.B.36.d.(i), are equal to or exceed forty tons per year or
                          more of nitrogen oxides, one hundred tons per year or more
                          of carbon monoxide, or forty tons per year or more of sulfur
                          dioxide. After receipt and review of a complete application,
                          the Division shall issue a temporary state-only non-road
                          engine permit containing such terms and conditions as are
                          necessary to protect the ambient air quality standards.

                  I.B.36.d.(iii) The operator of a non-road engine that is 1,200
                          horsepower or greater, but is exempt on the basis of the
                          annual emissions thresholds, must maintain sufficient
                          records to verify that the engine or engines are exempt from
                          the state-only reporting and permit requirements. Such


                                                                                          20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          records shall be made available for Division review upon
                          request.

     I.B.37. (State Only) Occupied Area

     Means (1) a building or structure designed for use as a place of residency by a
     person, a family, or families. The term includes manufactured, mobile, and
     modular homes, except to the extent that any such manufactured, mobile, or
     modular home is intended for temporary occupancy or for business purposes; (2)
     indoor or outdoor spaces associated with a school that students use commonly
     as part of their curriculum or extracurricular activities; (3) five thousand (5,000) or
     more square feet of building floor area in commercial facilities that are operating
     and normally occupied during working hours; and (4) an outdoor venue or
     recreation area, such as a playground, permanent sports field, amphitheater, or
     other similar place of outdoor public assembly.

     I.B.38. Operating Permit

     Unless the context suggests otherwise, any permit or group of permits covering
     an operating permit source that is issued, renewed, amended or revised pursuant
     to Part C of this Regulation Number 3.

     I.B.39. Operating Permit Source

     Any source subject to the permitting requirements of Part C of this regulation.

     I.B.40. Permit Revision

     Any permit modification, minor permit modification, or administrative permit
     amendment. No permit revision shall be required for increases in emissions that
     are authorized by allowances acquired pursuant to the acid rain program
     provided that such increases do not require a permit revision under any other
     applicable requirement.

     I.B.41. Pollution Prevention

     Any activity that through process changes, product reformulation or redesign, or
     substitution of less polluting raw materials, eliminates or reduces the release of



                                                                                          21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     air pollutants (including fugitive emissions) and other pollutants to the
     environment prior to recycling, treatment, or disposal. This definition does not
     include recycling (other than certain “in-process recycling” practices), energy
     recovery, treatment, or disposal.

     I.B.42. Portable Source

     A source such as, but not limited to, asphalt batch plants and aggregate crushers
     that commonly and by usual practice is moved from one site to another. A source
     will not be considered portable if it remains on one site for more than two years.

     I.B.43. Potential to Emit

     The maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit a pollutant under its
     physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the
     capacity of the source to emit a pollutant, including air pollution control
     equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of
     material combusted, stored, or processed, shall be treated as part of its design if
     the limitation or the effect it would have on emissions is state enforceable and
     federally enforceable. Secondary emissions do not count in determining the
     potential to emit of a stationary source.

     I.B.44. Predictive Emissions Monitoring System (PEMS)

     All of the equipment necessary to monitor process and control device operational
     parameters (for example, control device secondary voltages and electric
     currents) and other information (for example, gas flow rate, O2 or CO2
     concentrations), and calculate and record the mass emissions rate (for example,
     lb/hr) on a continuous basis.

     I.B.45. Regulated Air Pollutant

     Nitrogen oxides or any volatile organic compounds, except as listed in the
     definition of negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds in the Common
     Provisions regulation; any pollutant for which a national or state ambient air
     quality standard has been promulgated; any pollutant that is subject to any
     standard promulgated under Section 111 of the Federal Act (Regulation Number


                                                                                        22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     6); any class I or II substance subject to a standard promulgated under or
     established by Title VI of the Federal Act; any pollutant subject to a standard
     promulgated under Section 112 or other requirements established under Section
     112 of the Federal Act, including Sections 112(g), (j), and (r) of the Federal Act;
     and any pollutant subject to a standard promulgated pursuant to Colorado
     Revised Statutes Section 25-7-109.3(5)(a), (state-only hazardous air pollutants
     listed in Section 25-7-109.3(5)(a) are subject to state enforcement only and do
     not trigger enforcement by the Administrator or by citizens under Section 304 of
     the Federal Act.). Once a source becomes subject to the operating permit
     requirements, regulated air pollutants must be addressed in the permit
     application and in the permit.

     I.B.46. Responsible Official

     One of the following:

            I.B.46.a.      For a corporation: a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice
                   president of the corporation in charge of a principal business
                   function, or any other person who performs similar policy or
                   decision making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized
                   representative of such person if the representative is responsible
                   for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production,
                   or operating facilities applying for or subject to a permit and either:

                   I.B.46.a.(i)     The facilities employ more than two hundred and fifty
                           persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures
                           exceeding twenty-five million dollars (in second quarter 1980
                           dollars); or

                   I.B.46.a.(ii)    The delegation of authority to such representative is
                           approved in advance by the Division;

            I.B.46.b.      For a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
                   the proprietor, respectively;




                                                                                           23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            I.B.46.c.      For a municipality, state, federal, or other public agency;
                   either a principal executive officer, or ranking elected official. For
                   the purposes of this section, a principal executive officer of a
                   federal agency includes the chief executive officer having
                   responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic
                   unit of the agency; or

            I.B.46.d.      For affected sources:

                   I.B.46.d.(i)    The designated representative in so far as actions,
                           standards, requirements, or prohibitions under Title IV of the
                           Federal Act or the regulations, found at Code of Federal
                           Regulations Title 40, Part 72, promulgated there under are
                           concerned; and

                   I.B.46.d.(ii)   The designated representative under Title IV of the
                           Federal Act or the Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part
                           72 for any other purposes under the Code of Federal
                           Regulations Title 40, Part 70.

     I.B.47. Schedule of Compliance

     A schedule of required measures, including an enforceable sequence of actions
     or operations, leading to compliance with an applicable state implementation
     plan, emission standard, emission limitation, emission prohibition, or emission
     control regulation.

     I.B.48. Significant

     Unless the context otherwise requires, a significant rate of emissions in tons per
     year is defined as a value that would equal or exceed any of the following:



    Carbon monoxide: 100 tons per year

    Nitrogen Oxides: 40 (nitric oxide + nitrogen dioxide) tons per year




                                                                                            24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

    Sulfur dioxide: 40 tons per year

    Particulate matter: 25 tons per year particulate matter emissions or, 15 tons per
    year of

    PM10 emissions

    PM10 - Precursors in the Denver Metropolitan PM10 attainment/maintenance
    area: 40 tons per year for each individual precursor (nitrogen oxides or sulfur
    oxides)

    PM2.5: 10 tons per year of direct PM2.5 emissions; 40 tons per year of sulfur
    dioxide emissions; or 40 tons per year of nitrogen dioxide emissions

    Ozone: 40 tons per year of volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides

    Lead: 0.6 tons per year

    Fluorides: 3 tons per year

    Sulfuric acid mist: 7 tons per year

    Hydrogen sulfide: 10 tons per year

    Total reduced sulfur (including hydrogen sulfide): 10 tons per year

    Reduced sulfur compounds (including hydrogen sulfide): 10 tons per year

    Municipal Waste Combustor Organics (measured as total tetra- through octa-
    chlorinated

    dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans): 3.2 x 10-6 megagrams per year (3.5 x 10-
    6 tons per year)

    Municipal Waste Combustor Metals (measured as particulate matter): 14
    megagrams per year (15 tons per year)

    Municipal Waste Combustor Acid Gases (measured as sulfur dioxide and
    hydrogen chloride): 36 megagrams per year (40 tons per year)




                                                                                        25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

    Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Gases (measured as non-methane organic
    compounds):

    45 megagrams per year (50 tons per year)

    In a serious or severe ozone nonattainment area: 25 tons per year of volatile
    organic compounds or nitrogen oxides

    In an extreme ozone nonattainment area: any increase of volatile organic
    compounds or nitrogen oxides

     I.B.49. Significant Emissions Increase

     For a regulated NSR pollutant, an increase in emissions that is significant (as
     defined in Section I.B.48. of this Part A) for that pollutant.

     I.B.50. (State Only) Socioeconomically Vulnerable Community

     For purposes of this Regulation Number 3, the Commission identifies a
     Socioeconomically Vulnerable Community as any census block group that
     satisfies one or more of the following:

            I.B.50.a.      The proportion of the population living in households that are
                   below two hundred percent of the federal poverty level is greater
                   than forty percent;

            I.B.50.b.      The proportion of households that spend more than thirty
                   percent of household income on housing is greater than fifty
                   percent;

            I.B.50.c.      The proportion of the population that identifies as people of
                   color is greater than forty percent; or

            I.B.50.d.      The proportion of the population that is linguistically isolated
                   is greater than twenty percent.

            I.B.50.e.      It is a mobile home community.

     Prior to January 14, 2026, only census block groups included within the Air
     Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation (Reg.) 3 Disproportionately



                                                                                         26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     Impacted Community Layer in Version 1.0 of Colorado EnviroScreen that have a
     Colorado EnviroScreen score at or below the 80th percentile are
     Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities.

     Beginning January 14, 2026, a Socioeconomically Vulnerable Community is
     identified as any census block group identified in the Disproportionately Impacted
     Community Map (November 2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
     communities”, “low-income population above 40%”, “People of color population
     above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population above 50%”, and “Linguistically
     isolated population above 20%”.

     I.B.51. State-Only Condition

     Means any standard, term or condition that is not required by Part C of this
     regulation (Title V Operating Permits), Part D of this regulation (major New
     Source Review), Title III (hazardous air pollutants) or Section 111 (New Source
     Performance Standards) of the Federal Act, is not required to be federally
     enforceable to participate in the early reductions program, is not required to
     create a federally enforceable emissions limitation in order to create a synthetic
     minor source (as defined in Section I.A. of this Part), or is otherwise more
     stringent than a requirement under the Federal Act.

     I.B.52. Stationary Source

     Any building, structure, facility, or installation, or any combination thereof
     belonging to the same industrial grouping that emits or may emit any air pollutant
     subject to regulation under the Federal Act, that is located on one or more
     contiguous or adjacent properties and that is owned or operated by the same
     person or by persons under common control. Those emissions resulting directly
     from an internal combustion engine for transportation purposes or from a non-
     road engine as defined in Section I.B.36. of this Part shall not be considered a
     stationary source. Building, structures, facilities, equipment, and installations
     shall be considered to belong to the same industrial grouping if they belong to the
     same major groups (i.e., have the same two-digit codes) as described in the
     Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1987, but not later amendments. See


                                                                                         27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     National Technical Information Service, Order Number PB 87-100012. The
     manual is available for examination at the office of the Director of the Air Pollution
     Control Division, Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry
     Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530.




                                                                                        28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      for Affected Source see Section I.A.1. of Part C

      for Existing Source, see Section I.B.25. of Part A

      for Indirect Source, see Section I.B.29. of Part A

      for Major Source, see Section I.B.30. of Part A

      for Major Stationary Source, see Section II.A.25. of Part D

      for Minor Source, see Section I.B.31. of Part A

      for Mobile Source, see Section I.B.32. of Part A

      for New Source, see Section I.B.34. of Part A

      for Portable Source, see Section I.B.42. of Part A

      for Temporary Source, see Section I.B.54. of Part A

     I.B.53. Subject to Regulation

     For any air pollutant, that the pollutant is subject to either a provision in the
     Federal Act, or a nationally-applicable regulation codified by the Administrator in
     Subchapter C of 40 CFR Chapter I of the Federal Act, that requires actual control
     of the quantity of emissions of the pollutant, and that such a control requirement
     has taken effect and is operative to control, limit or restrict the quantity of
     emissions of that pollutant released from the regulated activity, except that:

            I.B.53.a.      GHG shall not be subject to regulation except as provided in
                   Sections I.B.53.d. through f. of this Part A.

            I.B.53.b.      For purposes of Section I.B.53.c. through e., the term CO2e
                   of this Part A, shall represent an amount of GHG emitted, and shall
                   be computed as follows:

                   I.B.53.b.(i)   Multiplying the mass amount of emissions (tpy), for
                           each of the six GHGs in the pollutant GHG, by the gas’s
                           associated GWP published at Table A-1 to Subpart A of Part
                           98 of 40 CFR (January 1, 2025). For purposes of this
                           paragraph, prior to July 21, 2014, the mass of the


                                                                                         29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          greenhouse gas carbon dioxide shall not include carbon
                          dioxide emissions resulting from the combustion or
                          decomposition of non-fossilized and biodegradable organic
                          material originating from plants, animals, or micro-organisms
                          (including products, by-products, residues and waste from
                          agriculture, forestry and related industries as well as the
                          non-fossilized and biodegradable organic fractions of
                          industrial and municipal wastes, including gases and liquids
                          recovered from the decomposition of non-fossilized and
                          biodegradable organic material).

                  I.B.53.b.(ii)   Sum the resultant value from Section I.B.53.b.(i) of
                          this Part A, for each gas to compute a tpy CO2e.

           I.B.53.c.      The term emissions increase as used in Sections I.B.53.d.
                  through e. of this Part A, shall mean that both a significant
                  emissions increase (as calculated using the procedures in Section
                  II.A.23 of Part D) and a significant net emissions increase (as
                  defined in Sections II.A.26, and II.A.44 of Part D) occur. For the
                  pollutant GHG, an emissions increase shall be based on tpy CO2e,
                  and shall be calculated assuming the pollutant GHG is a regulated
                  NSR pollutant, and significant is defined as 75,000 tpy CO2e
                  instead of applying the value in Section II.A.44.b. of Part D.

           I.B.53.d.      Beginning January 2, 2011, the pollutant GHG is subject to
                  regulation concerning major stationary source new source review
                  and prevention of significant deterioration if:

                  I.B.53.d.(i)    The stationary source is a new major stationary
                          source for a regulated NSR pollutant that is not GHG, and
                          also will emit or will have the potential to emit 75,000 tpy
                          CO2e or more; or

                  I.B.53.d.(ii)   The stationary source is an existing major stationary
                          source for a regulated NSR pollutant that is not GHG, and


                                                                                         30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          also will have an emissions increase of a regulated NSR
                          pollutant, and an emissions increase of 75,000 tpy CO2e or
                          more.

            I.B.53.e.     Repealed.

            I.B.53.f.     If there is a change in federal law that supersedes, or the
                   District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals or the United States
                   Supreme Court directs or issues an order, which limits or renders
                   ineffective the regulation of GHG emissions at stationary sources
                   under the New Source Review Prevention of Significant
                   Deterioration(PSD) or Title V provisions of the Federal Act the
                   regulation, GHG emissions under the corresponding programs in
                   this Regulation Number 3 shall be limited or rendered ineffective to
                   the same extent.

     I.B.54. Temporary Source

     A source in operation for not more than two years in duration unless the Division
     determines that a longer time period is appropriate.

     I.B.55. Uncontrolled Actual Emissions

     The annual emission rate corresponding to the annual process rate listed on the
     Air Pollutant Emission Notice form, without consideration of any emission control
     equipment or procedures. The Division may allow a source to forego calculating
     or estimating its uncontrolled actual emissions of hazardous air pollutants upon a
     showing by the source and a determination by the Division that the creation of
     such data is unreasonably costly, technically impractical or not reasonably related
     to information necessary for making regulatory decisions with respect to that
     source. The Division's final determination may be appealed to the Commission
     by the source.

     I.B.56. Well Production Facility

     All equipment at a single stationary source directly associated with one or more
     oil wells or natural gas wells upstream of the natural gas processing plant. This


                                                                                         31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        equipment includes, but is not limited to, equipment used for storage, separation,
        treating, dehydration, artificial lift, combustion, compression, pumping, metering,
        monitoring, and flowline.

        I.B.57. Wet Screening Operations

        A screening operation at a nonmetallic mineral processing plant that removes
        unwanted material or that separates marketable fines from the product by a
        washing process that is designed and operated at all times such that water is an
        integral part of the process and the product is saturated with water. Screens that
        use spray bars for the purposes of dust control are not included in this definition.

II.     Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) Requirements
II.A.   Air Pollutant Emission Notices for New, Modified, and Existing Sources

        II.A.1. Except as exempted in Section II.D., no person shall allow emission of air
               pollutants from, or construction, modification or alteration of, any facility,
               process, or activity which constitutes a stationary source, except
               residential structures, from which air pollutants are, or are to be, emitted
               unless and until an Air Pollutant Emission Notice and the associated Air
               Pollutant Emission Notice fee has been filed with the Division with respect
               to such emission. Each such notice shall specify the location at which the
               proposed emission will occur, the name and address of the persons
               operating and owning such facility, the nature of such facility, process or
               activity, an estimate of the quantity and composition of the expected
               emission and other information as required in the current Air Pollutant
               Emission Notice form.

               II.A.1.a.     An Emissions Reporting Notice is a category of Air Pollutant
                      Emission Notice used by sources reporting emissions annually
                      pursuant to Section IX.

        II.A.2. (State Only) Owners or operators required to report greenhouse gases
               pursuant to Regulation Number 22, Part A or Regulation Number 7, Part
               B, Sections IV. or V. must submit a facility-wide greenhouse gas emissions



                                                                                                32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           Air Pollutant Emission Notice, using a Division-approved form, for each
           facility directly emitting CO2e emissions equal to or greater than 25,000
           tpy. Owners or operators must submit the facility-wide greenhouse gas Air
           Pollutant Emission Notices on or before December 31, 2023, reporting
           calendar year 2022 emissions, and, thereafter, submit the facility-wide
           greenhouse gas Air Pollutant Emission Notices annually on or before
           December 31 of each year. For purposes of Section II.A.2.,

           Beginning in 2024 and annually thereafter, only owners or operators
           required to report greenhouse gases pursuant Regulation Number 22,
           Part A or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section IV. must submit a facility-
           wide greenhouse gas emissions Air Pollutant Emission Notice (e.g.,
           submit on or before December 31, 2024, reporting calendar year 2023
           emissions).

           Beginning in 2027 and annually thereafter, only owners or operators
           required to report greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation Number 7,
           Part B, Section IV. must submit a facility-wide greenhouse gas emissions
           Air Pollutant Emission Notice annually on or before June 30 of each year
           (e.g., submit on or before June 30, 2027, reporting calendar year 2026
           emissions).

           II.A.2.a.     “Greenhouse gas” includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane
                  (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs),
                  perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen
                  trifluoride (NF3).

           II.A.2.b.     For each reporting year, “CO2e” is determined by multiplying
                  the mass amount of emissions for each greenhouse gas
                  constituent, as defined in Section II.A.2.a., by that gas’s global
                  warming potential, as incorporated into Section I.B.10., and
                  summing the resultant values to determine CO2e.

           II.A.2.c.     Owners or operators must report the facility mass CO2e
                  using the greenhouse gas constituents as calculated and reported


                                                                                       33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                     pursuant to Regulation Number 22 or Regulation Number 7 for the
                     applicable reporting year.

              II.A.2.d.      The facility-wide greenhouse gas Air Pollutant Emission
                     Notices are not subject to the provisions of Sections II.B. through
                     II.D.

              II.A.2.e.      Owners or operators must submit the filing fee in Section
                     VI.D. with the annual facility-wide greenhouse gas Air Pollutant
                     Emission Notice.

        II.A.3. By January 31, 2024, and by every January 31 thereafter, stationary
              sources in the ozone nonattainment area with the potential to emit VOC
              and/or NOx emissions equal to or greater than 25 tons per year (per
              pollutant) must certify annually through a Division-approved format that
              annual actual VOC and/or NOx emissions estimates are as reported on Air
              Pollutant Emission Notices, including an Emissions Reporting Notice, for
              that certifying year, including per the thresholds defined as significant
              changes in Section II.C.2.

II.B.   General

        II.B.1. Emission Estimate

              The Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall include an estimate of the annual
              actual emissions, including emission controls. The emissions estimate
              shall be based upon actual test data or, in the absence of such data, upon
              estimations acceptable to the Division. The following alternative estimate
              methods, in order of descending acceptability, are acceptable to the
              Division:

              II.B.1.a.      Mass balance calculations or a published, verifiable
                     emission factor, whichever is best applied to the source; or

              II.B.1.b.      Other engineering calculations.

                     Stack testing or emission monitoring will not be required solely to
                     meet the Air Pollutant Emission Notice reporting requirements.


                                                                                           34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  An owner or operator shall provide a justification to the Division for
                  not using any methods that are higher on the list than the method
                  the owner or operator proposes to use. If none of the methods are
                  available or applicable to the source, an appropriate method will be
                  determined on a case-by-case basis by the Division, taking into
                  account the provisions of Section II.C.2. of this Part A.

                  The Division shall make available to all air pollution control authority
                  offices appropriate forms on which the information required by this
                  section shall be submitted.

     II.B.2. Air Pollutant Emission Notice Term

           An Air Pollutant Emission Notice is valid for a period of no more than five
           years. The five-year period recommences when a revised Air Pollutant
           Emission Notice is received by the Division.

     II.B.3. APEN Applicability

           For the purposes of Air Pollutant Emission Notice applicability, a source
           will be considered to be an individual emission point, or group of points
           pursuant to Section II.B.4. of this Part A.

           II.B.3.a.     Criteria Pollutants

                  For criteria pollutants, Air Pollutant Emission Notices are required
                  for: each individual emission point in a nonattainment area with
                  uncontrolled actual emissions of one ton per year or more of any
                  individual criteria pollutant (pollutants are not summed) for which
                  the area is nonattainment; each individual emission point in an
                  attainment or attainment/maintenance area with uncontrolled actual
                  emissions of two tons per year or more of any individual criteria
                  pollutant (pollutants are not summed); each individual emission
                  point with uncontrolled actual emissions of lead greater than one
                  hundred pounds per year, regardless of where the source is
                  located.



                                                                                         35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  (State Only) Annual emissions reported on an Emissions Reporting
                  Notice that are below these thresholds are reported on a state-only
                  basis.

           II.B.3.b.       Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants

                  For non criteria reportable pollutants, Air Pollutant Emission Notices
                  are required for each individual emission point with uncontrolled
                  actual emissions equal to or greater than 250 pounds per year or
                  more of any individual non-criteria reportable pollutant (pollutants
                  are not summed).

                  (State Only) Annual emissions reported on an Emissions Reporting
                  Notice that are below these thresholds are reported on a state-only
                  basis.

     II.B.4. Source Grouping

           Grouping of multiple emission points on a single Air Pollutant Emission
           Notice shall be allowed as often as possible, provided the overall goals of
           receiving accurate and verifiable emissions information are not
           compromised. The following guidelines shall be used to delineate
           occasions when grouping can be allowed. These are intended to be used
           as guidelines only, and specific questions regarding grouping should be
           directed to the Division.

           Multiple pieces of equipment or processes from a single facility may be
           grouped or associated together and reported on one single Air Pollutant
           Emission Notice provided the individual sources of emissions meet the
           following guidelines:

           II.B.4.a.       All of the aggregated sources have identical source
                  classification codes and emission factors for criteria pollutants;

           II.B.4.b.       Each of the aggregated sources share a similar location
                  within the facility;




                                                                                         36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.B.4.c.      Similar sources regulated under the New Source
                       Performance Standards (Regulation Number 6) and non-New
                       Source Performance Standard sources should not be grouped;

               II.B.4.d.      None of the individual sources is required to monitor
                       emissions through the use of continuous emission monitors;

               II.B.4.e.      Each of the individual emission points has fuel usage,
                       production, and a consumption level, which are indistinguishable
                       from the other points, which have been grouped on the Air Pollutant
                       Emission Notice;

               II.B.4.f.      None of the individual sources grouped on the Air Pollutant
                       Emission Notice has previously been issued its own separate
                       emissions permit.

                       The Division maintains its authority to require individual separate
                       Air Pollutant Emission Notices for any process or activity.

                       The Division may allow a source to deviate from this emission point
                       grouping criteria upon a showing that an alternative is reasonable
                       and will not compromise the overall goals of receiving accurate and
                       verifiable emissions information.

        II.B.5. Air Pollutant Emission Notices and revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices
               shall be based on calendar years (January through December).

        II.B.6. The emissions noted on the current Air Pollutant Emission Notice on file
               with the Division shall be used for emission fee calculations as described
               in Section VI. of this Part A.

II.C.   Revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices

        II.C.1. A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall be filed:

               II.C.1.a.      Annually whenever a significant change (as defined in
                       Section II.C.2.) in annual actual emissions occurs; or




                                                                                             37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.C.1.b.      Whenever there is a change in the owner or operator of any
                   facility, process, or activity; or

           II.C.1.c.      Whenever new control equipment is installed, or whenever a
                   different type of control equipment replaces an existing type of
                   control equipment (revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices are not
                   required for routine maintenance, repair, or replacement of control
                   equipment; or

           II.C.1.d.      Whenever a permit limitation must be modified; or

           II.C.1.e.      Before the Air Pollutant Emission Notice expires.

           II.C.1.f.      A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice is not required
                   whenever the location of a portable facility, process, or activity is
                   changed, however, the owner or operator of such source must file a
                   relocation notice. Such notice shall be received by the Division at
                   least ten days prior to the change in location. Alternatively, the
                   owner or operator of a portable source may request written
                   approval from the Division to report multiple relocations.

           II.C.1.g.      A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice is not required for
                   emergency or backup generators that are ancillary to the main units
                   at electric utility facilities, and that have a permit under Parts C or D
                   of Title I, or Title V of the Federal Act.

           II.C.1.h.      A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice is not required for
                   emergency or backup generators for electric power generating
                   facilities that are not ancillary to a main unit at an electric utility
                   facility, and that have a permit containing limits on the physical or
                   operational capacity of the source to emit a pollutant such that the
                   source is not considered to be a major stationary source as defined
                   in Section II.A.25. of Part D of this Regulation Number 3. If an
                   owner or operator of such a source chooses to file a revised Air
                   Pollutant Emission Notice, the Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall



                                                                                             38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   list the average of the annual actual emissions for the preceding
                   three years.

           II.C.1.i.       The following owners or operators satisfy the requirement to
                   submit a revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice as specified in
                   Sections II.C.1.a. or II.C.1.e. by filing an Emissions Reporting
                   Notice as follows.

                   II.C.1.i.(i)    Starting on January 1, 2027, owners or operators
                           submitting an Emissions Reporting Notice pursuant to
                           Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. and Regulation
                           Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.1.d.

     II.C.2. Significant change, for the purposes of this section means:

           II.C.2.a.       For any non-criteria reportable pollutant if the emissions
                   increase by fifty percent or five tons per year, whichever is less,
                   above the level reported on the last Air Pollutant Emission Notice
                   submitted to the Division.

           II.C.2.b.       For criteria pollutants:

                   II.C.2.b.(i)    For sources emitting less than one hundred tons per
                           year, a change in annual actual emissions, of the individual
                           criteria pollutant less than one hundred tons per year, of five
                           tons per year or more, above the level reported on the last
                           Air Pollutant Emission Notice submitted to the Division; or

                   II.C.2.b.(ii)   For volatile organic compound and nitrogen oxides
                           sources in ozone nonattainment areas emitting less than one
                           hundred tons of volatile organic compound and nitrogen
                           oxides per year, a change in annual actual volatile organic
                           compound or nitrogen oxide emissions of one ton per year or
                           more or five percent, whichever is greater, above the level
                           reported on the last Air Pollutant Emission Notice submitted
                           to the Division; or



                                                                                         39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.C.2.b.(iii)   For sources emitting one hundred tons per year or
                           more, a change in annual actual emissions, of the criteria
                           pollutant above one hundred tons per year, of five percent or
                           fifty tons per year or more, whichever is less, above the level
                           reported on the last Air Pollutant Emission Notice submitted
                           to the Division; or

                  II.C.2.b.(iv)    A change in annual actual emissions, above the level
                           reported on the last Air Pollutant Emission Notice submitted
                           to the Division, of fifty pounds of lead.

     II.C.3. Timeframe for Revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice submittals

           II.C.3.a.               Revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices shall be
                  submitted no later than within thirty days before the five-year term
                  expires.

           II.C.3.b.               Owners or operators of sources that are required to
                  obtain a permit revision must file a revised Air Pollutant Emission
                  Notice along with a request for permit revision. A revised permit
                  must be obtained before the change at the source occurs.

           II.C.3.c.               Sources submitting revised Air Pollutant Emission
                  Notices to inform the Division of a change in annual actual emission
                  rates must do so by April 30 of the following year (e.g., a change in
                  emissions in calendar year 1993 must be reported by April 30,
                  1994).

           II.C.3.d.               Air Pollutant Emission Notices for changes in control
                  equipment must be submitted before the change occurs); except for
                  control equipment at condensate storage tanks located at oil and
                  gas exploration and production facilities subject to the requirements
                  in Regulation Number 7, Section XII. For this control equipment, a
                  revised APEN shall be filed once per year, as specified in Section




                                                                                         40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                     II.C.3.c. of Part A, if any control equipment is added or if control
                     equipment is relocated or removed.

        II.C.4. Emissions reported

              II.C.4.a.     Sources submitting revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices
                     due to Sections II.C.1.a., II.C.1.b., or II.C.1.e. must report actual
                     annual emissions. Actual annual emissions for sources utilizing
                     emission control equipment or procedures represent controlled
                     actual annual emissions.

              II.C.4.b.     Sources submitting revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices
                     due to Sections II.C.1.c. or II.C.1.d. must report both uncontrolled
                     actual annual emissions and controlled actual emissions.

II.D.   Exemptions from Air Pollutant Emission Notice Requirements

        II.D.1. Stationary sources having emission units that are exempt from the
              requirement to file an Air Pollutant Emission Notice must nevertheless
              comply with all requirements that are otherwise applicable specifically to
              the exempted emission units, including, but not limited to: Title V,
              Prevention of Significant Deterioration, nonattainment New Source
              Review, opacity limitations, odor limitations, particulate matter limitations
              and volatile organic compounds controls. An applicant may not omit any
              information regarding APEN exempt emission units in any permit
              application if such information is needed to determine the applicability of
              Title V (Part C of this Regulation Number 3), Prevention of Significant
              Deterioration (Section VI., Part D of this Regulation Number 3), or
              nonattainment New Source Review (Section V., Part D of this Regulation
              Number 3).

        The following sources are exempt from the requirement to file Air Pollutant
        Emission Notices because by themselves, or cumulatively as a category, they are
        deemed to have a negligible impact on air quality.




                                                                                             41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.1.a.      Individual emission points in nonattainment areas having
                   uncontrolled actual emissions of any criteria pollutant of less than
                   one ton per year, and individual emission points in attainment or
                   attainment/maintenance areas having uncontrolled actual
                   emissions of any criteria pollutant of less than two tons per year,
                   and each individual emission point with uncontrolled actual
                   emissions of lead less than one hundred pounds per year,
                   regardless of where the source is located.

           II.D.1.b.      Individual emission points having uncontrolled actual
                   emissions of any individual non-criteria reportable pollutant less
                   than 250 pounds per year.

           II.D.1.c.      Air conditioning or ventilating systems not designed to
                   remove air pollutants generated by or released from other
                   processes or equipment.

           II.D.1.d.      Fireplaces used for recreational purposes, inside or outside.

           II.D.1.e.      Fires and equipment used for noncommercial cooking of
                   food for human consumption, or cooking of food for human
                   consumption at commercial food service establishments, except for
                   char broilers and wood fired equipment (but not including
                   campfires) in PM10 nonattainment areas. Charbroiler shall mean a
                   cooking device in a commercial food service establishment, either
                   gas fired or using charcoal or other fuel, upon which grease drips
                   down upon an open flame, charcoal or embers.

           II.D.1.f.      Safety flares used to indicate danger to the public.

           II.D.1.g.      Agricultural operations such as farming, cultivating,
                   harvesting, seasonal crop drying, grain handling operations that are
                   below New Source Performance Standards de minimis levels
                   (including milling and grain elevator operations), and animal feeding




                                                                                          42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   operations that are not housed commercial swine feeding facilities
                   as defined in Regulation Number 2, Part B.

                   This exemption does not apply to an agricultural operation that: (1)
                   is a major source (as defined in Section I.B.30. of this part); (2)
                   meets or exceeds the storage capacity thresholds of a federal New
                   Source Performance Standard (Regulation Number 6, Part A); or
                   (3) participates in the early reduction program of the Federal Act,
                   Section 112. Ancillary operations such as fueling stations located at
                   farms or ranches are not exempt from Air Pollutant Emission Notice
                   and permit requirements unless otherwise below the de minimis
                   emission levels contained in this regulation, and are not exempt
                   from other applicable regulation promulgated by the Commission.

           II.D.1.h.        Emissions from, or construction, or alteration of residential
                   structures, including all buildings or other structures used primarily
                   as a place of residence, and including home heating devices.

           II.D.1.i.        Laboratories and research & development facilities:

                   II.D.1.i.(i)     Noncommercial (in house) experimental and
                            analytical laboratory equipment that is bench scale in nature
                            including quality control/quality assurance laboratories,
                            process support laboratories, environmental laboratories
                            supporting a manufacturing or industrial facility, and research
                            and development laboratories.

                   II.D.1.i.(ii)    Research and development activities that are of a
                            small pilot scale and that process less than ten thousand
                            pounds of test material per year;

                   II.D.1.i.(iii)   Small pilot scale research and development projects
                            less than six months in duration with controlled actual
                            emissions less than five hundred pounds of any criteria




                                                                                            43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          pollutant or ten pounds of any non-criteria reportable
                          pollutant.

           II.D.1.j.      Disturbance of surface areas for purposes of land
                   development, that do not exceed twenty-five contiguous acres and
                   that do not exceed six months in duration. (This does not include
                   mining operations or disturbance of contaminated soil).

           II.D.1.k.      Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment, other than
                   smokehouse generators and internal combustion engines, that
                   uses gaseous fuel, and that has a design rate less than or equal to
                   five million British thermal units per hour. (See definition of fuel
                   burning equipment, Common Provisions Regulation).

           II.D.1.l.      Internal combustion engines powering portable drilling rigs.

           II.D.1.m.      Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.n.      Chemical storage tanks or containers that hold less than five
                   hundred gallons, and that have an annual average daily throughput
                   of less than twenty-five gallons.

           II.D.1.o.      Unpaved public and private roadways, except for haul roads
                   located within a stationary source site boundary.

           II.D.1.p.      Sanding of streets and roads to abate traffic hazards caused
                   by ice and snow.

           II.D.1.q.      Open burning activities, except that all reporting and
                   permitting requirements that apply to such operations must be
                   followed (see Regulation Number 9).

           II.D.1.r.      Brazing, soldering, or welding operations, except those that
                   use lead based compounds. All welding that occurs strictly for
                   maintenance purposes is exempt.

           II.D.1.s.      Street and parking lot striping.

           II.D.1.t.      Battery recharging areas.


                                                                                          44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.1.u.        Aerosol can usage.

           II.D.1.v.        Sawing operations, that is ancillary to facility operations, and
                   is not part of the production process.

           II.D.1.w.        The process of demolition and re bricking of furnaces and
                   kilns. This does not include subsequent operation of such furnaces
                   or kilns.

           II.D.1.x.        Road and lot paving operations at commercial and industrial
                   facilities, except that asphalt and cement batch plants require Air
                   Pollutant Emission Notices and permits, unless exempt under some
                   other section.

           II.D.1.y.        Adhesive use that is not related to production.

           II.D.1.z.        Fire training activities.

           II.D.1.aa.       Caulking operations that are not part of a production
                   process.

           II.D.1.bb.       Landscaping and site housekeeping devices equal to or less
                   than ten horsepower in size (lawnmowers, trimmers, snow blowers,
                   etc.).

           II.D.1.cc.       Fugitive emissions from landscaping activities (e.g.,
                   weeding, sweeping).

           II.D.1.dd.       Landscaping use of pesticides, fumigants, and herbicides.

           II.D.1.ee.       Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.ff.       Emergency events such as accidental fires.

           II.D.1.gg.       Smoking rooms and areas.

           II.D.1.hh.       Plastic pipe welding.

           II.D.1.ii.       Vacuum cleaning systems used exclusively for industrial,
                   commercial, or residential housekeeping purposes.

           II.D.1.jj.       Beauty salons.


                                                                                         45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.1.kk.     Operations involving acetylene, butane, propane and other
                   flame cutting torches.

           II.D.1.ll.     Pharmacies.

           II.D.1.mm.     Chemical storage areas where chemicals are stored in
                   closed containers, and where total storage capacity does not
                   exceed five thousand gallons. This exemption applies solely to
                   storage of such chemicals. This exemption does not apply to
                   transfer of chemicals from, to, or between such containers.

           II.D.1.nn.     Architectural painting, roof coating material and associated
                   surface preparation (except for sandblasting and except for volatile
                   organic compound emissions, associated with surface preparation,
                   above Air Pollutant Emission Notice de minimis levels) for
                   maintenance purposes at industrial or commercial facilities.

           II.D.1.oo.     Emissions that are not criteria (as defined in Section I.B.20.
                   of this part) or non-criteria reportable pollutants (as defined in
                   Section I.B.35. of this part) (These emissions include methane,
                   ethane, and carbon dioxide).

           II.D.1.pp.     Janitorial activities and products.

           II.D.1.qq.     Grounds keeping activities and products.

           II.D.1.rr.     Sources of odorous emissions that do not utilize emission
                   control equipment for control of odorous emissions. This exemption
                   applies to the odor emissions only. All other emissions are subject
                   to other exemptions set forth in this regulation. This exemption does
                   not exempt any source from the requirements of Regulation
                   Number 2.

           II.D.1.ss.     Truck and car wash units.

           II.D.1.tt.     Office emissions, including cleaning, copying, and
                   restrooms.



                                                                                        46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.1.uu.      Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.vv.      Electrically operated curing ovens, drying ovens and similar
                  activities, articles, equipment, or appurtenances. This exemption
                  applies to the ovens only, and not to the items being dried in the
                  ovens.

           II.D.1.ww.      Equipment used exclusively for portable steam cleaning.

           II.D.1.xx.      Blast cleaning equipment using a suspension of abrasive in
                  water and any exhaust system or collector serving them exclusively.

           II.D.1.yy.      Commercial laundries (except dry cleaners) that do not burn
                  liquid or solid fuel.

           II.D.1.zz.      Storage of butane, propane, or liquefied petroleum gas in a
                  vessel with a capacity of less than sixty thousand gallons, provided
                  the requirements of Regulation Number 7, Section IV. are met,
                  where applicable.

           II.D.1.aaa.     Storage tanks of capacity less than forty thousand gallons of
                  lubricating oils or used lubricating oils.

           II.D.1.bbb.     Venting of compressed natural gas, butane or propane gas
                  cylinders, with a capacity of one gallon or less.

           II.D.1.ccc.     Fuel storage and dispensing equipment in ozone attainment
                  areas operated solely for company owned vehicles where the daily
                  fuel throughput is no more than four hundred gallons per day that is
                  calculated as an annual average. Sources in an ozone
                  attainment/maintenance area must utilize Stage 1 vapor recovery
                  on all tanks greater than 550 gallons capacity, as required by
                  Regulation Number 24, in order to take this exemption.

           II.D.1.ddd.     Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.eee.     Indirect sources are exempt until a permit regulation specific
                  to indirect sources is promulgated by the Commission.



                                                                                       47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.1.fff.       Storage tanks meeting all of the following criteria:

                    II.D.1.fff.(i)    Annual throughput is less than four hundred thousand
                             gallons; and

                    II.D.1.fff.(ii)   The liquid stored is one of the following:

                             II.D.1.fff.(ii)(A)     Diesel fuels 1 D, 2 D, or 4 6;

                             II.D.1.fff.(ii)(B)     Fuel oils #1 through #6;

                             II.D.1.fff.(ii)(C)     Gas turbine fuels 1 GT through 4 GT;

                             II.D.1.fff.(ii)(D)     Oil/water mixtures with a vapor pressure
                                      equal to or lower than that of diesel fuel (Reid Vapor
                                      Pressure of 0.025 pounds per square inch absolute).

           II.D.1.ggg.       Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment that uses
                    gaseous fuel, and that has a design rate less than or equal to ten
                    million British thermal units per hour, and that is used solely for
                    heating buildings for personal comfort.

           II.D.1.hhh.       Natural gas vehicle fleet fueling facilities.

           II.D.1.iii.       Electric motors driving equipment at non-commercial
                    machining shops.

           II.D.1.jjj.       Recreational swimming pools.

           II.D.1.kkk.       Forklifts.

           II.D.1.lll.       Exemption Repealed (January 30, 2020).

           II.D.1.mmm. Handling equipment and associated activities for glass that
                    is destined for recycling.

           II.D.1.nnn.       Fugitive emissions of hazardous air pollutants that are
                    natural constituents of native soils and rock (not added or
                    concentrated by chemical or mechanical processes) from
                    underground mines or surface mines unless such source is a major




                                                                                            48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   source of hazardous air pollutants under Part C of Regulation
                   Number 3.

           II.D.1.ooo.    The use of pesticides, fumigants, and herbicides when used
                   in accordance with requirements established under the federal
                   Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act as established by the
                   U.S. EPA (United States Code Title 7, Section 136 et seq.).

           II.D.1.ppp.    Ventilation of emissions from mobile sources operating
                   within a tunnel, garage, or building that are not operating for
                   transportation purposes and are subject to stationary source
                   requirements.

           II.D.1.qqq.    Non-asbestos demolition.

           II.D.1.rrr.    Sandblast equipment when the blast media is recycled and
                   the blasted material is collected, including small sandblast glove
                   booths.

           II.D.1.sss.    Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.ttt.    Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.uuu.    Surface water storage impoundment of non-potable water
                   and storm water evaporation ponds, with the exceptions of oil and
                   gas production wastewater impoundments (including produced
                   water tanks) and commercial facilities that accept oil and gas
                   production wastewater for processing.

           II.D.1.vvv.    Non-potable water pipeline vents.

           II.D.1.www. Steam vents and safety release valves.

           II.D.1.xxx.    Exemption Repealed

           II.D.1.yyy.    Seal and lubricating oil systems for steam turbine electric
                   generators.




                                                                                        49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.D.1.zzz.    Venting of natural gas lines for safety purposes. This
                    exemption does not apply to routine or predictable emissions at or
                    associated with a stationary source.

            II.D.1.aaaa. Chemical Storage Tanks

                    II.D.1.aaaa.(i)       Sulfuric acid storage tanks not to exceed ten
                           thousand five hundred gallons capacity.

                    II.D.1.aaaa.(ii)      Sodium hydroxide storage tanks.

            II.D.1.bbbb. Containers, reservoirs, or tanks used exclusively for dipping
                    operations that contain no organic solvents for coating objects with
                    oils, waxes, greases, or natural or synthetic resins.

            II.D.1.cccc.   Wet screening operations notwithstanding the applicability of
                    the New Source Performance Standards included in the Code of
                    Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 60, Subpart OOO.

            II.D.1.dddd. Non-road engines as defined in Section I.B.36. of this Part A,
                    except certain non-road engines subject to state-only air pollutant
                    emission notice and permitting requirements pursuant to Section
                    I.B.36.c. and I.B.36.d. of this part.

            II.D.1.eeee. Exemption Repealed

            II.D.1.ffff.   Exemption Repealed

     II.D.2. An Air Pollutant Emission Notice must be filed for all incinerators.

     II.D.3. Air Pollutant Emission Notices are required for emergency and backup
            generators that are ancillary to the main units at electric utility facilities
            however, these units may be included on the same Air Pollutant Emission
            Notice as the main unit.

     II.D.4. Any person may request the Division to examine a particular source
            category or activity for exemption from Air Pollutant Emission Notice or
            permit requirements.




                                                                                             50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.D.4.a.      Such requests shall be made separately from the permit
                  application review procedure.

           II.D.4.b.      Such requests shall include documentation indicating that
                  emissions from the source category or activity have a negligible
                  impact on air quality and public health in Colorado, based on, but
                  not limited to, the following criteria.

                  II.D.4.b.(i)     Emissions from the source or activity are below the
                          Air Pollutant Emission Notice or permit emission de minimis
                          levels set forth in this Regulation Number 3; or

                  II.D.4.b.(ii)    The existing Division emission inventory is sufficient
                          to indicate that the source or activity has a negligible impact;
                          or

                  II.D.4.b.(iii)   For permit exemptions, criteria in Sections II.D.4.b.(i)
                          and/or II.D.4.b.(ii), are met, and the source or activity has no
                          applicable requirement that applies to it, and the Division
                          finds that monitoring or record keeping are not necessary.

                  II.D.4.b.(iv)    Exemptions shall not be granted for any source or
                          activity that is subject to any federal applicable requirement.
                          The Division shall determine on a case-by-case basis if
                          sources or activities subject to state only regulations may be
                          granted an exemption.

           II.D.4.c.      None of the activities submitted as exemption requests to
                  the Division may be taken by a source until the Commission has
                  duly adopted the exemptions as revisions to this Regulation
                  Number 3 and the U.S. EPA has approved the exemption requests.

     II.D.5. Commercial (for hire) laboratories whose primary responsibilities are to
           perform qualitative or quantitative analysis on environmental, clinical,
           geological, forensic, or process samples may estimate emissions for
           purposes of Air Pollutant Emission Notice reporting based upon a mass



                                                                                         51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             balance calculation utilizing inventory and purchase records of solvents
             and reagents. Such laboratories may, at their discretion, group emission
             points if such grouping meets the grouping criteria outlined in this
             regulation. All inert samples are exempt from Air Pollutant Emission Notice
             reporting. Emissions from samples subjected to analysis provided to such
             laboratories for analysis and testing, and by-products that result from
             sample testing, are exempt from Air Pollutant Emission Notice reporting,
             provided such samples subjected to analysis are less than five gallons for
             liquids, or five pounds for solids.

       II.D.6. Research and development activities that do not fall within the small scale
             exemption in Section II.D.1.i. may estimate emissions for purposes of Air
             Pollutant Emission Notice reporting based upon either a mass balance
             calculation utilizing inventory and purchase records, or best engineering
             judgment. Such facilities may file an Air Pollutant Emission Notice or
             revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice on an annual basis by April 30 of the
             year following the project's conclusion for each project that is not exempt
             under Section II.D.1.i., irrespective of Section II.C., herein (revised Air
             Pollutant Emission Notice requirements), such Air Pollutant Emission
             Notices shall be filed on a per project basis and shall be based on
             controlled actual emissions.

III.   Administrative Permit Amendment Procedures
III.A. An application for an administrative permit amendment shall be prepared on
       forms supplied by the Division.

III.B. Within sixty calendar days after receipt of a complete application for an
       administrative permit amendment the Division shall issue its final determination
       on such application in accordance with the following:

       III.B.1. Deny the application for an administrative permit amendment; or

       III.B.2. Grant the application and incorporate any such changes into the permit
             providing such permit revisions are made pursuant to this Part A, Section
             III.


                                                                                           52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

III.C. A source may implement the changes addressed in the application for an
         administrative amendment immediately upon submittal of request, subject to the
         final determination of the Division.

III.D. As required under the Federal Act, the Division shall transmit to the Administrator
         a copy of each revised permit made pursuant to an administrative permit
         amendment under this provision.

III.E. No public notice or review by affected states shall be necessary for permit
         revisions made pursuant to administrative amendment procedures.

III.F.   Administrative permit amendments for purposes of the acid rain portion of a
         permit shall be governed by regulations promulgated under Title IV of the Federal
         Act, found at Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72.

IV.      Operational Flexibility
IV.A. Alternative operating scenarios

         No permit revision is required for reasonably anticipated operating scenarios
         identified by the source in its application for a permit and approved by the
         Division, provided the permit contains terms and conditions that:

         IV.A.1. Require the source, contemporaneously with making a change from one
                operating scenario to another, to record in a log at the permitted facility a
                record of the scenario under which it is operating;

         IV.A.2. Ensure that the terms and conditions of each such alternative scenario
                meet all applicable requirements of the state and Federal Act.

         IV.A.3. Extend the permit shield to all operating permit terms and conditions under
                each such operating scenario.

IV.B. Trading based on the permit

         If allowed by the applicable state implementation plan, no permit revision shall be
         required under any approved economic incentives, marketable permits,
         emissions trading and other similar programs or processes for changes in
         emissions that are provided for in the permit. The permit applicant must request



                                                                                            53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      such provisions to be included in its permit, and if approved by the Division, the
      permit shall contain terms and conditions that:

      IV.B.1. For operating permits, include all terms required under Section V.C. of
             Part C;

      IV.B.2. Ensure that changes resulting from such increases and decreases in
             emissions meet all applicable requirements under the state and Federal
             Acts;

      IV.B.3. Extend the permit shield to all operating permit terms and conditions that
             allow such increases and decreases in emissions.

IV.C. Emissions trading under permit caps

      No permit revision shall be required where an applicant requests, and the
      Division approves such request, for a permit containing terms and conditions
      allowing for the trading of emissions increases and decreases in the permitted
      facility. Procedures for such changes are:

      IV.C.1.For operating permits, the permit shall contain terms and conditions
             required pursuant to Section V.C. of Part C;

      IV.C.2.The permit applicant shall include in its application proposed replicable
             procedures and permit terms that ensure the emissions trades are
             quantifiable;

      IV.C.3.Any emissions units for which emissions are not quantifiable or for which
             there are no replicable procedures to enforce the emissions trades shall
             not be included in this provision allowing emissions trading without permit
             revision;

      IV.C.4.The source shall comply with all other applicable requirements.

      IV.C.5.The source shall provide a minimum of seven days’ written notification in
             advance of the proposed changes to the Division and to the Administrator.
             The notice must be received by the Division no later than seven days in
             advance of the proposed changes. The source and the Division shall



                                                                                         54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              attach each such notice to their copy of the relevant permit. The notice
              shall contain:

              IV.C.5.a.        When the change will occur;

              IV.C.5.b.        A description of the changes in emissions that will result and
                       how these increases and decreases in emissions will comply with
                       the terms and conditions of the permit;

              IV.C.5.c.        The permit shield shall extend to all operating permit terms
                       and conditions that allow such increases and decreases in
                       emissions.

       IV.C.6.A source shall be allowed to make such change proposed in its notice on
              the day following the last day of the advance notice described in Section
              IV.C.5., if the Division has not responded nor objected to such changes on
              or before that day.

V.     Emission Reduction Credits Certification, Transfer, and Use for Offsets
V.A.   Purpose

       This section establishes principles and procedures for the certification of
       emissions reductions into the Division’s registry and for their subsequent use as
       emission offsets to meet the requirements of Section V.A.3. of Part D of this
       regulation.

V.B.   Applicability

       V.B.1. This section applies to the following persons and entities:

              V.B.1.a.         The owners or operators of stationary sources or emissions
                       units that intend to voluntarily reduce emissions and seek to create
                       emission reduction credits (ERCs). Credit creation is voluntary.

              V.B.1.b.         The owners or operators of stationary sources that intend to
                       use ERCs as offsets for nonattainment new source review
                       (NANSR).

              V.B.1.c.         Those who choose to own and transfer ERCs.


                                                                                           55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       V.B.2. This section applies to the following pollutants:

                      NOx and VOC as precursors of ozone.

       V.B.3. This section applies to the following areas:

                      All ozone nonattainment areas within the state of Colorado.

       V.B.4. This section does not apply to emissions trading under permit caps in
              Section IV.C. of Part A.

V.C.   Definitions

       V.C.1. Base year for the SIP planning process

       The baseline year for reasonable further progress (RFP) demonstrations
       submitted to the EPA for the applicable NAAQS and nonattainment area.

       V.C.2. Baseline emissions (for determining emission reduction credit)

       The average rate, in tons per year, at which the emissions unit actually emitted
       the pollutant during the 24-month period immediately preceding the date a
       complete ERC application is received by the Division. The Division may allow the
       use of a different time period upon a determination that it is more representative
       of normal source operation. The baseline emissions shall be actual emissions,
       provided, however, the baseline emissions cannot exceed Reasonably Available
       Control Technology or any applicable regulatory work practice or emission control
       requirement.

              V.C.2.a.      The average rate shall be adjusted downward to exclude any
                      non-compliant emissions that occurred while the source was
                      operating above any emission limitation that was legally
                      enforceable during the consecutive 24-month period.

       V.C.3. Emission reduction credit

       Emission reductions that meet the requirements of Section V.D. of this part A and
       have been certified and issued by the Division.

       V.C.4. ERC originating source



                                                                                          56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     The owner or operator of a facility or emissions unit that creates certified
     emission reduction credits.

     V.C.5. Netting

     Netting is a major new source review applicability step that is designed to exempt
     modifications of existing major stationary sources from new source review
     requirements if the resultant impact does not exceed any of the significant values
     found in the definition of significant in Section II.A.44. of Part D of this regulation.
     Emission reductions utilized for netting do not need to be certified as ERCs.

     V.C.6. Nonattainment pollutant

     Pollutants that EPA has established a National Ambient Air Quality Standard
     (NAAQS) for and their precursors for which any part of Colorado is designated as
     nonattainment by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

     V.C.7. Offset

     Offset means the use of ERCs to compensate for emissions increases of a
     nonattainment pollutant from a new major stationary source or from a major
     modification to an existing stationary source, to meet the requirements of Section
     V.A.3. of Part D of this regulation.

     V.C.8. Registry

     The Division’s record of all certified emission reductions and of the use of
     certified emission reductions.

     V.C.9. Surplus

     Emission reductions below the baseline emissions that are:

            V.C.9.a.       Not used to meet any regulatory requirements, including
                     those required by any state or federal act.

            V.C.9.b.       Not relied upon for state implementation plan (SIP) planning
                     purposes, including demonstrations of attainment of the NAAQS or
                     reasonable further progress toward attainment.




                                                                                           57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              V.C.9.c.        Not used to meet any regional haze limits including Best
                      Available Retrofit Technology (BART) and Reasonable Progress
                      (RP).

V.D.   Certification of emission reduction credits

       V.D.1. Criteria for Certification of Emission Reductions

       An emission reduction may be certified for use as an offset, provided it meets the
       following criteria:

              V.D.1.a.        The owner or operator of an existing source (as defined in
                      Section I.B.25. of Part A of this regulation) or an existing emissions
                      unit must file the Division-approved ERC certification application
                      prior to the occurrence of the reduction. Sources that shut down
                      prior to submitting the Division-approved ERC certification
                      application have zero emissions, and therefore no credit is
                      available.

              V.D.1.b.        The emission reductions are surplus (as defined in Section
                      V.C.9. of Part A of this regulation) at the time of ERC certification,
                      permanent, quantifiable, and federally enforceable.

              V.D.1.c.        A shutdown or curtailment is creditable only if it occurred
                      after the last day of the base year for the SIP planning process. For
                      purposes of this paragraph, the Division may choose to consider a
                      prior shutdown or curtailment to have occurred after the last day of
                      the base year if the projected emissions inventory used to develop
                      the attainment demonstration explicitly includes the emissions from
                      such previously shutdown or curtailed emission units.

              V.D.1.d.        For existing sources or emissions units that commit to
                      switching to a cleaner fuel at some future date, ERCs are allowable
                      only if the requirements of Sections V.D.3.c. and V.D.4.e. are met.

              V.D.1.e.        The reduction comes from an existing source (as defined in
                      Section I.B.25. of Part A of this regulation) or emissions unit that


                                                                                               58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   has existed for at least two years prior to the submittal of the ERC
                   certification application.

     V.D.2 Non-creditable reductions

     The following reductions do not qualify for emission reduction credits:

            V.D.2.a.      Emission reductions from mobile sources unless those
                   sources are subject to ambient impact and new source review
                   permitting.

            V.D.2.b.      Emission reductions from an emission unit that is in violation
                   of an emission limit at the time of application review until ERC
                   certification, for a nonattainment pollutant.

            V.D.2.c.      Emission reductions taken to return to compliance. Any
                   reductions beyond the amount needed to return to compliance may
                   be creditable.

            V.D.2.d.      Emission reductions required as the result of any state or
                   federal enforcement action, consent agreement, or court order.

            V.D.2.e.      Emission reduction that is relied upon for demonstration of
                   reasonable further progress towards attainment in the SIP.

            V.D.2.f.      Emission reductions used for netting under Part D of this
                   regulation.

            V.D.2.g.      No credit may be allowed for replacing one hydrocarbon
                   compound with another of lesser reactivity, except that credit may
                   be allowed for replacement with compounds listed as negligibly
                   reactive volatile organic compounds (NRVOCs) in the Common
                   Provisions.. Non-creditable reductions

     V.D.3. ERC certification application requirements

     Applications for ERC certification must include the following:

            V.D.3.a.      All data and calculations necessary to verify the baseline
                   emissions (as defined in Section V.C.2.) or the reduction of


                                                                                        59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   emissions below the base level including, but not limited to,
                   documentation of operating hours and inputs. The Division may
                   also require the applicant to perform source tests or continuous
                   emissions monitoring reasonably necessary to establish the
                   baseline emissions and/or the reduction of emissions below the
                   baseline emissions.

            V.D.3.b.      An evaluation of applicability of current regulations to
                   determine that the proposed reduction is surplus (as defined in
                   Section V.C.8.).

            V.D.3.c.      For existing sources or emissions units that commit to
                   switching to a cleaner fuel at some future date, the applicant must
                   provide documentation that shows adequate long-term supplies of
                   the new fuel are available.

            V.D.3.d.      Applications for certification of emission reductions must be
                   made on Division-approved forms.

            V.D.3.e.      If an ERC application is not complete upon submission, the
                   Division may request additional information from the applicant
                   within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt. The applicant must
                   respond to Division requests for information within sixty (60)
                   calendar days of the request. If a response to the Division is not
                   provided within sixty (60) calendar days, the Division may cancel
                   the ERC application. If the Division cancels an ERC application, the
                   Division will provide notification to the applicant. Following a
                   canceled ERC application, the applicant may still be assessed fees
                   for time spent by Division personnel in evaluating the ERC
                   application in accordance with Section V.D.5.

     V.D.4. Procedure for certification.

            V.D.4.a.      The Division will not certify reductions until the reductions
                   have occurred and been verified.



                                                                                          60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           V.D.4.b.      The Division will maintain an emission reduction registry, in
                  which it will maintain a record of all certified emission reductions,
                  and the use of certified emission reductions as offsets. The
                  information contained in such registry will include the name and
                  address of the owner or operator of the source creating the
                  emission reductions, the location of the source, and any other data
                  that might reasonably be necessary to evaluate future use.

           V.D.4.c.      The Division will certify and enter into the registry the
                  amount of emissions that have been reduced below the baseline
                  emissions and meet all criteria in Section V.D.1. The state may not
                  utilize certified emission reductions in making demonstrations of
                  attainment, or reasonable further progress toward attainment of the
                  NAAQS, unless the ERC-owning entity surrenders the ERCs to the
                  Division.

           V.D.4.d.      Each certified reduction of a pollutant’s emissions will be
                  quantified in tons per year (TPY).

           V.D.4.e.      When credits are issued for existing sources or emissions
                  units that commit to switching to a cleaner fuel at some future date,
                  the corresponding permit must be conditioned to require use of a
                  specified alternative control measure that would achieve the same
                  degree of emission reductions should the source switch back to the
                  previous fuel at some later date.

           V.D.4.f.      If the Division determines that certification should be
                  granted, it will modify or cancel the applicant’s permit to reflect the
                  reduction to be certified by the Division, ensuring the emission limit
                  is adjusted accordingly. The owner or operator of a source not
                  required to obtain a permit by provisions of law other than this
                  section will be required to apply for and accept a permit as a
                  condition of obtaining certified emission reductions. Such permits
                  will contain only those conditions necessary to ensure the


                                                                                          61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   enforcement of the emissions limitations applicable to the source as
                   a result of certification of its emission reductions. If the Division
                   determines that maintaining a permit associated with an ERC
                   certificate is no longer practical, the Division may cancel the permit,
                   and the ERC credit will be enforced through a condition in the ERC
                   certificate itself.

            V.D.4.g.       Division adjustments to the quantity of certified ERCs in the
                   registry will be allowed if the action to adjust the quantity of ERCs is
                   required by applicable state and federal rules and/or SIP planning
                   requirements, including Reasonable Further Progress. Division
                   adjustments for SIP planning purposes will be made uniformly, on a
                   percentage basis, across all ERCs in the registry for the applicable
                   pollutant in the applicable nonattainment area, however the Division
                   may also adjust individual ERCs as a result of a surplus
                   determination at the time of use or any time the owner of the ERCs
                   requests such determination. In all cases, the Division will notify the
                   owner(s) about the adjustment.

            V.D.4.h.       Following the certification of an emission reduction, if the
                   Division determines that certification was granted based on fraud, a
                   material misstatement, or material omission, the Division may
                   revoke the certification of the reduction. Certification may be
                   revoked only after the owners or operators of the affected sources
                   have received notice and, if requested, a hearing before the
                   Commission has been conducted. The Division may also utilize its
                   authority to pursue enforcement for fraud, misstatement, and/or
                   omission in the ERC application.

     V.D.5. Fees for certification of ERCs

     Applicants for certification of an emission reduction will be assessed fees for time
     spent by Division personnel in evaluating such applications in accordance with
     Section VI. of this Part A as applicable. Applicants are responsible for paying


                                                                                           62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       such fees regardless of whether the Division approves or denies an application.
       Failure to pay the associated fees may result in the Division withholding issuance
       of the ERC certificate.

V.E.   Use of emission reduction credits

       V.E.1. Allowable use

              ERCs may be used as offsets to meet the nonattainment new source
              review (NANSR) requirements outlined in Section V.A.3. of Part D of this
              regulation.

       V.E.2. Prohibited use

       The use of ERCs may not be inconsistent with, nor used to meet any of the
       following:

              V.E.2.a.      Federal New Source Performance Standards (NSPS);

              V.E.2.b.      Federal National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
                     Pollutants (NESHAP);

              V.E.2.c.      The requirements for Lowest Achievable Emission Rates
                     (LAER);

              V.E.2.d.      The requirements for Best Available Control Technology
                     (BACT);

              V.E.2.e.      The requirements for Reasonably Available Control
                     Technology (RACT), except for the sources specified in Regulation
                     Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.12. and I.L.2.d. Applications
                     requesting the use of ERCs as RACT will no longer be accepted
                     after January 14,     2026;

              V.E.2.f.      The requirements for Maximum Available Control Technology
                     (MACT);

              V.E.2.g.      Any Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) increment;




                                                                                      63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            V.E.2.h.        Any proposed project deemed mandatory as a result of a
                   state or federal enforcement action, consent agreement, or court
                   order;

            V.E.2.i.        Any proposed project whose outcome interferes with the
                   demonstration of reasonable further progress towards attainment in
                   the SIP.

            V.E.2.j.        Regional haze limits including Best Available Retrofit
                   Technology (BART) and Reasonable Progress (RP).

     V.E.3. Criteria and procedure for use

     The use of emission reduction credits as offsets to meet the requirements of
     nonattainment new source review, as outlined in Section V.A.3. of Part D of this
     regulation, may be approved only if it meets the following criteria:

            V.E.3.a.        The owner or operator of a source who wishes to use an
                   emission reduction as offsets must only use certified ERCs as
                   offsets to meet the requirements of Section V.A.3. of Part D of this
                   regulation. Reductions from the originating source must be certified
                   as ERCs        before they can be used as offsets.

            V.E.3.b.        NOx ERCs can only be used to offset NOx increases and
                   VOC ERCs can only be used to offset VOC increases.

            V.E.3.c.        ERCs intended to be used as offsets to meet the
                   requirements of nonattainment new source review must be
                   obtained by the owner or operator of the proposed new or modified
                   source prior to the application to use them. The owner or operator
                   intending to use the         credits as offsets may supply ERCs they
                   have certified themselves or alternatively, secure ERCs from other
                   entities through transfer of ownership as described in Section V.F.

            V.E.3.d.        The source at which emission reductions occurred and the
                   source using the emission reductions are in the same
                   nonattainment area; or the conditions of Section V.A.3.b. of Part D


                                                                                       64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  of this regulation are met for the use of an offset obtained from a
                  source outside the specified nonattainment area.

           V.E.3.e.      The Division must identify the permit of the source using the
                  ERCs as offsets.

           V.E.3.f.      The owner or operator of a source that received certified
                  ERCs for an emission reduction must submit a cancellation request
                  to the Division for the ERCs if the reduction is subsequently used
                  for netting purposes under Part D of this regulation. Once ERCs are
                  transferred, the originating source must reacquire the ERCs before
                  using the reduction for netting under Part D of this regulation.

           V.E.3.g.      The source requesting approval of ERC usage has the
                  burden of demonstrating that all criteria of this Section V.E., are
                  met.

           V.E.3.h.      The offsets must be greater than one for one unless a ratio is
                  provided for the applicable nonattainment area as identified in
                  Section V.A.3.a. of Part D of this regulation. The required VOC
                  offset amounts as required in Section V.A.3. of Part D of this
                  regulation also apply to major stationary sources and major
                  modifications of NOx. The emission offsets must provide a positive
                  net air quality benefit in the area the source is proposing to locate
                  or modify. Atmospheric simulation modeling is not necessary for
                  ERC use involving VOCs or NOx. Fulfillment of the offset ratio
                  condition and Section V.E.3.d. will be considered adequate to meet
                  this condition.

           V.E.3.i.      ERCs are eligible to be used as offsets if they are surplus,
                  permanent, quantifiable, and federally enforceable.

           V.E.3.j.      A source that uses ERCs as offsets and becomes subject to
                  future regulations, such as new RACT requirements, should be
                  aware that they are potentially subject to requirements for



                                                                                        65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  additional emission reductions, just as all other sources subject to
                  the new regulation.

     V.E.4. ERC use application requirements

     Applications for ERC use must include the following:

           V.E.4.a.      Applications for use of ERCs must be made on Division-
                  approved forms.

           V.E.4.b.      The ERC certification, obtained as required by Section
                  V.E.3.c.

           V.E.4.c.      The federal land manager must be notified by the owner or
                  operator if ERCs will be used as offsets within one hundred
                  kilometers of a Class I area, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 7472(a).
                  Notification must occur early enough in the review process to allow
                  at least thirty days for the submittal of comments before the ERC
                  use application will be approved by the reviewing authority. The
                  notification letter must be provided to the Division as part of the
                  ERC use application.

           V.E.4.d.      If an ERC application is not complete upon submission, the
                  Division may request additional information from the applicant
                  within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt. The applicant must
                  respond to Division requests for information within sixty (60)
                  calendar days of the request. If a response to the Division is not
                  provided within sixty (60) calendar days, the Division may cancel
                  the ERC       application. If the Division cancels an ERC
                  application, the Division will provide notification to the applicant.
                  Following a canceled ERC application, the applicant may still be
                  assessed fees for time spent by the Division personnel in
                  evaluating the ERC application in accordance with Section V.E.5.

     V.E.5. Fees for use of ERCs




                                                                                          66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                Applicants applying for approval of any use of ERCs as offsets will be
                assessed fees for time spent by the Division personnel in evaluating such
                applications in accordance with Section VI. of this Part A. Where more
                than one person applies for approval to use a credit, all such persons will
                be jointly liable for the fees assessed. Applicants are responsible for
                paying such fees regardless of whether the Division approves or denies
                an application. The costs of Division review of any information associated
                with the application for the proposed use of ERCs will be included in the
                costs attributed to the permit application for the source(s) seeking
                approval to use the credits and must be paid by the source regardless of
                whether the use of ERCs as offsets is approved.

V.F.   Transfer of ownership of ERCs

       Ownership of certified emission reduction credits can be transferred from the
       credit-owning entities to other entities by following the steps below:

       V.F.1.          Applications for transfer of ownership of ERCs must be made on
                Division-approved forms and must be initiated by the credit-owning entity.

       V.F.2.          Both credit-owning and credit-receiving entities must sign the
                transfer of ownership form for the Division to certify the transfer.

VI.    Fees
VI.A. General

       VI.A.1.         Every person required to obtain a Construction or Operating Permit
                or to file an Air Pollution Emission Notice, including an Emissions
                Reporting Notice, must pay fees as set forth in the following sections.
                Such fees will be charged to recover the direct and indirect costs incurred
                by the Division including, but not limited to, in processing permit
                applications, issuing permits, and in conducting a compliance monitoring
                and enforcement program. Such fees will apply without regard to whether
                a permit is issued, denied, withdrawn, or revoked. Fees will be charged as
                indicated in Section VI.D. of this part.



                                                                                            67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VI.B. Permit Processing Fees

      VI.B.1.      Applicants for a permit shall be assessed total fees that shall be
            partially determined at the time that the Division makes its decision
            whether to issue preliminary approval of the permit and partially at the
            time the Division makes its decision whether to issue final approval.

      VI.B.2.      The partial fee collected at the time the Division makes its decision
            whether to issue preliminary approval of the permit shall include the costs
            associated with the preliminary engineering evaluation, modeling, and
            analysis of impact on ambient air quality, notice and publication
            requirements, analysis and implementation of Disproportionately Impacted
            Community monitoring and modeling requirements, and such other costs
            as are required for the aforementioned activities incurred by the Division
            up to the time of the decision of whether to issue preliminary approval.

      VI.B.3.      The final fee collected at the time the Division makes its decision of
            whether to issue final approval shall include the balance of the total of all
            costs associated with enforcement of any terms and conditions of the
            emission permit, the supervision of compliance testing, notice and
            publication requirements, and such other costs as are required for the
            processing, issuance, and administration of the permit.

      VI.B.4.      If the Division requires more than thirty hours to process an
            application, the Division shall inform the owner or operator of the source
            and provide an estimate of what the actual charges may be, prior to
            commencing with processing of the application, unless the owner or
            operator waives this requirement in writing.

      VI.B.5.      All permit processing fees assessed must be received within thirty
            days of the date of receipt of the written request therefore. All fees
            collected under this regulation shall be made payable to the Colorado
            Department of Public Health and Environment. Construction permits may
            be issued prior to the Division’s receipt of such fees. Failure to pay the
            permit processing fees within sixty days of the written request for fees may


                                                                                         68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            result in late fees or revocation of the permit. Permits issued in
            accordance with Part C of this regulation may be issued upon approval by
            the Division of a fee payment schedule.

VI.C. Annual Emissions Fees

      VI.C.1.      As used in this Section VI., in accordance with Colorado Revised
            Statute Section 25-7-114.7, regulated air pollutant means:

            VI.C.1.a.     A volatile organic compound;

            VI.C.1.b.     Each hazardous air pollutant;

            VI.C.1.c.     Each pollutant regulated under Section 111 of the Federal
                   Act (New Source Performance Standards);

            VI.C.1.d.     Each pollutant for which a National Ambient Air Quality
                   Standard has been promulgated, except for carbon monoxide; and

            VI.C.1.e.     Each pollutant regulated under Section 25-7-109 of the state
                   Act.

            VI.C.1.f.     The term regulated air pollutant does not include fugitive
                   dust as defined in Section I.B.26. of this Part A, or any fraction
                   thereof.

      VI.C.2.      Every owner or operator of an air pollution source required to file an
            Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall pay a nonrefundable annual emissions
            fee as set forth in Section VI.D.3. of this Part A.

      VI.C.3.      All annual emissions fees assessed must be received within sixty
            days of the date of issuance of the written request therefore. All fees
            collected under this regulation shall be made payable to the Colorado
            Department of Public Health and Environment.

      VI.C.4.      In no event shall an owner or operator of a source pay more than a
            fee based upon total annual emissions of four thousand tons of each
            regulated air pollutant per source.

VI.D. Fee Schedule


                                                                                        69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     VI.D.1.       Air Pollutant Emission Notice filing fees will be $363.00, effective
           July 1, 2025. Beginning July 15, 2026, the filing fee will be $675.00.

           VI.D.1.a.      Notwithstanding the Air Pollutant Emission Notice filing fee
                   set forth in Section VI.D.1., for owners or operators reporting
                   annual emissions on an Emissions Reporting Notice, the Emissions
                   Reporting Notice filing fee is

                   VI.D.1.a.(i)   Beginning in 2027 for owners or operators reporting
                          annual emissions pursuant to Part A, Section IX.A.1.d.,
                          $270.00 per AIRS number for equipment or activities
                          included in the Emissions Reporting Notice that exceed the
                          APEN applicability thresholds in Part A, Section II.B.3.

     VI.D.2.       Permit processing fees will be $180.00 per hour, effective July 1,
           2025. Beginning July 15, 2026, the processing fee will be $410.00 per
           hour.

     VI.D.3.       For 2025 emissions, annual emission fees for regulated pollutants
           will be $84.00 per ton and annual emission fees for hazardous air
           pollutants will be $557.00 per ton. 2025 emission fees will be billed in
           calendar year 2026.

           For emissions after 2025, the annual emission fees for regulated
           pollutants will be $164.00 per ton and the annual emission fees for
           hazardous air pollutants will be $1090.00 per ton.

           GHG is exempt from the requirement to pay this annual emission fee.

     VI.D.4.       (State Only) Annual greenhouse gas emission fees.

           VI.D.4.a.      Beginning in 2024, fees on greenhouse gas emissions in the
                   form of carbon dioxide equivalent will be collected.

           VI.D.4.b.      For owners or operators required to report greenhouse
                   gases pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section IV. and
                   pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.A.2.; owners or
                   operators required to report greenhouse gases pursuant to


                                                                                          70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 Regulation Number 22 with facility CO2e emissions equal to or
                 greater than 25,000 metric tpy; and owners or operators required to
                 report greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                 Section V. with company-wide CO2e emissions equal to or greater
                 than 25,000 metric tpy, the annual greenhouse gas emission fee is
                 determined according to the following formula.

                 Annual greenhouse gas emission fee:

                 1.     number of fee payers * 4,000 = total billable CO2e

                 2.     $6,540,000 / total billable CO2e = average dollar per ton of
                 CO2e. Beginning in 2027, the total dollar amount to be collected is
                 $7,250,000.

                 3.     total emissions reported by fee payers / number of fee
                 payers = average emissions per fee payer

                 4.     individual fee payer’s reported emissions / average
                 emissions per fee payer = CO2e proportionality factor

                 5.     average dollar per ton of CO2e * CO2e proportionality factor
                 = individual fee payer’s dollar per ton of CO2e

                 6.     individual fee payer’s dollar per ton of CO2e * 4,000 tons =
                 individual fee payer’s annual CO2e fee

                 Where:

                 In (1) and (3), the number of fee payers means the total number of
                 (a) facilities reporting greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation
                 Number 7, Part B, Section IV. and Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                 Section II.A.2., (b) facilities reporting greenhouse gases pursuant to
                 Regulation Number 22 with facility CO2e emissions equal to or
                 greater than 25,000 metric tpy, and (c) owners or operators
                 reporting greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part
                 B, Section V. with company-wide CO2e emissions equal to or
                 greater than 25,000 metric tpy for the calendar year reported prior


                                                                                    71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 to billing (e.g., for a bill issued in 2024, calendar year 2022
                 emissions as reported in 2023)

                 In (2), $6,540,000 means the indirect and direct cost required to
                 develop and administer the Division’s programs that pertain to
                 emissions of greenhouse gas

                 In (3), total emissions reported by fee payers means the total CO2e
                 reported by owners or operators reporting greenhouse gases
                 pursuant to (a) Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section IV. and
                 Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.A.2., (b) by owners or
                 operators reporting greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation
                 Number 22 with facility CO2e emissions equal to or greater than
                 25,000 metric tpy, and (c) by owners or operators reporting
                 greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                 Section V. with company-wide CO2e emissions equal to or greater
                 than 25,000 metric tpy for the calendar year reported prior to billing
                 (e.g., for a bill issued in 2024, calendar year 2022 emissions as
                 reported in 2023)

                 In (4), the individual fee payer’s reported emissions means the total
                 CO2e reported by (a) a facility reporting greenhouse gases
                 pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section IV. and
                 Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.A.2., (b) a facility reporting
                 greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation Number 22 with facility
                 CO2e emissions equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tpy, or (c) a
                 company reporting greenhouse gases pursuant to Regulation
                 Number 7, Part B, Section V. with company-wide CO2e emissions
                 equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tpy for the calendar year
                 reported prior to billing (e.g., for a bill issued in 2024, calendar year
                 2022 emissions as reported in 2023)

                 In (6), the annual CO2e fee means the facility or company’s
                 individualized CO2e fee after considering the facility or company’s


                                                                                        72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   proportional CO2e contribution to the total billable CO2e and the
                   4,000 ton limitation in 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(II), C.R.S., (2023)

            VI.D.4.c.     For calendar year 2024, collecting greenhouse gas emission
                   fees on calendar year 2022 emissions as reported in calendar year
                   2023, the indirect and direct costs to be collected are $3,924,000.

VI.E. Major Stationary Source Fee Program

      VI.E.1.      Purpose. To establish fees pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act
            Sections 182(d)(3) and 185. Fees will be assessed if the 2008 ozone
            National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) ozone nonattainment
            area fails to attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by the date the nonattainment
            area is mandated to reach attainment of the 2008 ozone NAAQS (i.e.,
            2027, unless granted an extension). Fees determined in accordance with
            Section VI.E.4. must be paid for each year beginning the year after the
            attainment year and each year thereafter until EPA determines that the
            2008 ozone NAAQS ozone nonattainment area attains the 2008 ozone
            NAAQS.

      VI.E.2.      Applicability. Any stationary source located in the 2008 ozone
            NAAQS ozone nonattainment area that is a major stationary source of
            VOC or NOx in the attainment year and the year(s) thereafter until EPA
            determines that the 2008 ozone NAAQS ozone nonattainment area attains
            the 2008 ozone standard.

      VI.E.3.      Exemption. No source is required to pay any fee under Section
            VI.E. with respect to emissions during any year that is considered an
            extension year under the federal Clean Air Act Section 181(a)(5).

      VI.E.4.      Baseline emissions are calculated for each pollutant (VOC and/or
            NOx) for which the source is classified as a major stationary source.

            VI.E.4.a.     For major stationary sources that commenced operation
                   prior to the attainment year, the baseline emissions are the lower of

                   VI.E.4.a.(i)   The actual emissions in the attainment year, or


                                                                                       73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.E.4.a.(ii)   The amount of emissions allowed under permit in the
                         attainment year.

           VI.E.4.b.     For major stationary sources that commenced operation in
                  the attainment year, the baseline emissions are the lower of

                  VI.E.4.b.(i)    The actual emissions from the operational period
                         extrapolated over the attainment year, or

                  VI.E.4.b.(ii)   The amount of emissions allowed under permit in the
                         attainment year.

           VI.E.4.c.     For major stationary sources that commenced operation
                  after the attainment year, the baseline emissions are the lower of

                  VI.E.4.c.(i)    The actual emissions from the operational period
                         extrapolated over the year the source commenced
                         operation, or

                  VI.E.4.c.(ii)   The amount of emissions allowed under permit in the
                         year the source commenced operation.

           VI.E.4.d.     If a major stationary source’s emissions are irregular,
                  cyclical, or otherwise vary significantly from year to year, the source
                  may calculate the baseline emissions in accordance with Part D,
                  Sections II.A.4.a. through II.A.4.d. (baseline actual emissions). Any
                  source that calculates baseline emissions pursuant to this section
                  must submit the calculation to the Division by March 1 of the year
                  after the attainment year, or of the year after the source
                  commenced operation if after the attainment year.

     VI.E.5.      Aggregated baseline amount. After calculating each pollutant’s
           baseline emissions in accordance with Section VI.E.3., a major stationary
           source may combine the baseline emissions as follows.

           VI.E.5.a.     VOC emissions into a single, aggregated VOC baseline
                  amount for multiple major stationary sources under common
                  control.


                                                                                       74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           VI.E.5.b.     NOx emissions into a single, aggregated NOx baseline
                  amount for multiple major stationary sources under common
                  control.

           VI.E.5.c.     VOC and NOx emissions into a single, aggregated baseline
                  amount for multiple major stationary sources under common
                  control.

           VI.E.5.d.     VOC and NOx emissions into a single, aggregated baseline
                  amount for a single major stationary source.

           VI.E.5.e.     Pollutants that are combined into a single, aggregated
                  baseline amount must have the same time period and the same
                  basis of either actual or authorized emissions for calculating the
                  baseline emissions.

           VI.E.5.f.     Any source that aggregates baseline emissions pursuant to
                  this section must submit a list of the aggregated major stationary
                  sources and associated emissions to the Division by March 1 of the
                  year after the attainment year, or of the year after the source
                  commenced operation if after the attainment year.

           VI.E.5.g.     If the United States Environmental Protection Agency
                  disapproves of the incorporation of this Section VI.E.5. into
                  Colorado’s State Implementation Plan, the Division is directed to
                  withdraw from EPA's consideration Section VI.E.5. prior to
                  publication date of EPA's final disapproval.

     VI.E.6.      Collection of fees.

           VI.E.6.a.     Beginning for each year after the attainment year, or the year
                  after a granted extension year(s), major stationary sources must
                  pay a fee per ton of VOC or NOx emissions, for which the source is
                  major, during the calendar year that exceed 80% of the source’s
                  baseline emissions of VOC or NOx.




                                                                                       75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                       VI.E.6.a.(i)    The fee is $5,000 per ton, adjusted annually
                              beginning in the year 1991, by the change in the Consumer
                              Price Index.

                       Fee = 5000 * [Ea – (0.8 * Eb)] * (1 + CPI)

                       Where:

                       Fee = Clean Air Act Section 185 fee

                       Ea = actual emissions for the applicable fee assessment year

                       Eb = baseline emissions determined in accordance with Sections
                       VI.E.4. or VI.E.5.

                       CPI = percent change in the Consumer Price Index

                       VI.E.6.a.(ii)   The Consumer Price Index adjustment will be made
                              pursuant to the Clean Air Action Sections 185(b)(3) and
                              502(b)(3)(B)(v) (1990).

VII.     Confidential Information or Data Contained in Air Pollutant Emission
Notices, Permit Applications, or Reports Submitted Pursuant to Part C, Section
V.C.6.
VII.A. Upon written request to the Division, any person filing an Air Pollutant Emission
         Notice or permit application, or submitting reports pursuant to Regulation Number
         3, Part C, Sections V.C.6. or V.C.7., may request that information contained in
         such an Air Pollutant Emission Notice, permit application, or report relating to
         secret processes or methods of manufacture or production be kept confidential.
         The written request must identify the basis for the claim that the information
         relates to secret processes or methods of manufacture or production. All
         information claimed as confidential must be segregated from the rest of the Air
         Pollutant Emission Notice, permit application, or report when submitted, with
         each page clearly marked as “Confidential,” “Trade Secret,” or other similar
         marking.




                                                                                            76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VII.B. The Division will evaluate confidentiality claims based on the written request. The
        burden of establishing that the information relates to secret processes or
        methods of manufacture or production is on the claimant. Emission data, as
        defined in Colorado Revised Statutes Section 25-7-103(11.5), shall not be
        entitled to confidential treatment notwithstanding this Section VII., or any other
        law to the contrary. In no event shall an Operating Permit or the compliance
        certifications submitted pursuant to Section III.B.8. of Part C of this Regulation
        Number 3 be entitled to confidential treatment. If the Division determines that
        information requested to be kept confidential is not entitled to confidential
        treatment, it shall provide written notice of this determination at least three
        working days prior to making such information available to the public.

VII.C. A request for confidential treatment of information or data submitted to the
        Division shall be deemed a limited waiver by the applicant of the time constraints
        contained in Section III.B. of Part B, or Section IV. of Part C of this regulation.
        Therefore, any delay in the processing of a permit application resulting from the
        Division's being required to give notice under Section VII.B., hereof, shall not be
        considered in determining whether the time constraints set forth in this regulation
        have been met.

VIII.   Technical Modeling and Monitoring Requirements
VIII.A. Air Quality Models

        VIII.A.1.     All estimates of ambient concentrations required under this
               Regulation Number 3 shall be based on the applicable air quality models,
               databases, and other requirements generally approved by U.S. EPA and
               specifically approved by the Division. If a non-U.S. EPA approved model,
               such as a wind tunnel study, is proposed, the nature and requirements of
               such a model should be outlined to the Division at a pre-application
               meeting. The application will be deemed incomplete until there has been
               an opportunity for a public hearing on the proposed model and written
               approval of the U.S. EPA has been received.

VIII.B. Monitoring


                                                                                              77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       VIII.B.1.     All monitoring must be performed in accordance with U.S. EPA
              accepted procedures as approved by the Division.

       VIII.B.2.     An owner or operator may submit a monitoring program for a
              proposed source or modification to the Division for review. Within sixty
              days after such submittal, the Division shall:

              VIII.B.2.a.   Approve the monitoring program; or

              VIII.B.2.b.   Specify the changes necessary for approval; otherwise, the
                     monitoring program shall be deemed approved.

VIII.C. Stack Heights

       This regulation sets limits for the maximum stack height credit to be used in
       ambient air quality modeling for the purpose of setting an emission limitation and
       calculating the air quality impact of a source. It does not limit the actual physical
       stack height for any source. The following shall not be considered in determining
       whether an emission limitation is met:

       VIII.C.1.     Stack height in excess of good engineering practice; or

       VIII.C.2.     Any other dispersion technique except that the provisions of this
              Section VIII.C. shall not apply to stack heights in existence or dispersion
              techniques implemented before December 31, 1970. Sources that were
              constructed, reconstructed, or for which major modifications were carried
              out after December 31, 1970, and that are emitting pollutants from such
              stacks, or using such dispersion techniques, shall be subject to the
              provisions of this section.

VIII.D. Definitions as used in Section VIII.C.

       VIII.D.1.     Stack in existence means that the owner or operator had:

              VIII.D.1.a.   Begun, or caused to begin, a continuous program of physical
                     on site construction of the stack; or

              VIII.D.1.b.   Entered into binding agreements or contractual obligations
                     that could not be cancelled or modified without substantial loss to


                                                                                            78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   the owner or operator, to undertake a program of construction of
                   the stack to be completed in a reasonable time.

     VIII.D.2.     Dispersion Technique means any technique that attempts to affect
            the concentration of a pollutant in the ambient air by using that portion of a
            stack that exceeds good engineering practice stack height, varying the
            rate of emission of a pollutant according to atmospheric conditions or
            ambient concentrations of that pollutant, or by increasing final exhaust gas
            plume rise by manipulating source process parameters, exhaust gas
            parameters, or combining exhaust gases from several existing stacks into
            one stack; or other selective handling of exhaust gas streams so as to
            increase the exhaust gas plume rise. The preceding sentence does not
            include:

            VIII.D.2.a.   The reheating of a gas stream, following use of a pollution
                   control system, for the purpose of returning the gas to the
                   temperature at which it was originally discharged from the facility
                   generating the gas stream;

            VIII.D.2.b.   The merging of exhaust gas streams where:

                   VIII.D.2.b.(i) The source owner or operator demonstrates that the
                          facility was originally designed and constructed with such
                          merged gas streams;

                   VIII.D.2.b.(ii) After July 8, 1983, such merging is part of a change in
                          operation at the facility that includes the installation of
                          pollution controls and is accompanied by a net reduction in
                          the allowable emissions of a pollutant. This exclusion from
                          the definition of dispersion techniques shall apply only to the
                          emission limitation for the pollutant affected by such change
                          in operation; or

                   VIII.D.2.b.(iii) Before July 8, 1985, such merging was part of a
                          change in operation at the facility that included the



                                                                                         79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          installation of emissions control equipment or was carried
                          out for sound economic or engineering reasons. Where there
                          was an increase in the emissions limitation or, in the event
                          that no emission limitation was in existence prior to the
                          merging, the reviewing agency shall presume that merging
                          was significantly motivated by intent to gain emissions credit
                          for greater dispersion.

                   Absent a demonstration by the source owner or operator that
                   merging was not significantly motivated by such intent, the
                   reviewing agency shall deny credit for the effects of such merging in
                   calculating the allowable emissions for the source;

            VIII.D.2.c.   Smoke management in agricultural or silvicultural prescribed
                   burning programs;

            VIII.D.2.d.   Episodic restrictions on residential wood burning and open
                   burning; or

            VIII.D.2.e.   Techniques that increase final exhaust gas plume rise where
                   the resulting allowable emissions of sulfur dioxide from the facility
                   do not exceed five thousand tons per year.

     VIII.D.3.     Good Engineering Practice Stack Height means the greater of:

            VIII.D.3.a.   65 meters; or

            VIII.D.3.b.   For stacks in existence on January 12, 1979 and for which
                   the owner or operator had obtained all applicable pre-construction
                   permits or approvals required, Hg = 2.5H, provided the owner or
                   operator produces evidence that this equation was actually relied
                   on in establishing an emission limitation; and

            VIII.D.3.c.   For all other stacks, Hg = H + 1.5L where:

                   VIII.D.3.c.(i) Hg = good engineering practice stack height
                          measured from the ground level elevation at the base of the
                          stack;


                                                                                         80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   VIII.D.3.c.(ii) H = height of nearby structure(s) measured from the
                          ground level elevation at the base of the stack;

                   VIII.D.3.c.(iii) L = lesser dimension (height or projected width) of
                          nearby structure(s) provided that the reviewing agency may
                          require the use of a field study or fluid model to verify Good
                          Engineering Practice stack height for the source; or

            VIII.D.3.d.   The height demonstrated by a fluid model or a field study
                   approved by the reviewing agency, which ensures that the
                   emissions from a stack do not result in excessive concentrations of
                   any air pollutant as a result of atmospheric downwash, wakes, or
                   eddy effects created by the source itself, structures, or terrain
                   obstacles.

     VIII.D.4.     Nearby as applied to good engineering practice is:

            VIII.D.4.a.   For purposes of applying the formulae provided in Sections
                   VIII.D.3.b. and VIII.D.3.c. in the definition of good engineering
                   practice stack height means that distance up to five times the lesser
                   of the height or the width dimension of a structure, but not greater
                   than 0.8 kilometers (1/2 mile), and

            VIII.D.4.b.   For conducting demonstrations in Section VIII.D.3. in the
                   definition of good engineering practice means not greater than 0.8
                   kilometers (1/2 mile), except that the portion of a terrain feature
                   may be considered to be nearby that falls within a distance of up to
                   ten times the maximum height of the feature, not to exceed two
                   miles if such feature achieves a height 0.8 kilometers from the
                   stack that is at least forty percent of the good engineering practice
                   stack height determine by the formula or twenty-six meters,
                   whichever is greater.

     VIII.D.5.     Excessive concentrations for the purpose of determining good
            engineering practice, stack height in a fluid model or field study, means:



                                                                                          81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           VIII.D.5.a.   For sources seeking credit for stack height exceeding that
                  established by the formulae, a maximum ground level concentration
                  due to emissions from a stack due in whole or part to downwash,
                  wakes, and eddy effects produced by nearby structures or nearby
                  terrain features that individually is at least forty percent in excess of
                  the maximum concentration experienced in the absence of such
                  downwash, wakes, or eddy effects and that contributes to a total
                  concentration due to emissions from all sources that is greater than
                  an ambient air quality standard.

                  For sources subject to the prevention of significant deterioration
                  program, an excessive concentration alternatively means a
                  maximum ground level concentration due to emissions from a stack
                  due in whole or part to downwash, wakes, or eddy effects produced
                  by nearby structures or nearby terrain features that individually is at
                  least forty percent in excess of the maximum concentration
                  experienced in the absence of such downwash, wakes, or eddy
                  effects and greater than a prevention of significant deterioration
                  increment. The allowable emission rate to be used in making
                  demonstrations shall be prescribed by the new source performance
                  standard that is applicable to the source category unless the owner
                  or operator demonstrates that this emission rate is infeasible.
                  Where such demonstrations are approved by the Division, an
                  alternative emission rate shall be established in consultation with
                  the source owner or operator;

           VIII.D.5.b.   For sources seeking credit after October 1, 1983 for
                  increases in existing stack heights up to the heights established by
                  the formulae, either:

                  VIII.D.5.b.(i) A maximum ground level concentration due in whole
                         or part to downwash, wakes or eddy effects as provided in
                         Section VIII.D.5.a. except that the emission rate specified by



                                                                                        82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                           any applicable state implementation plan (or, in the absence
                           of such a limit, the actual emission rate) shall be used; or

                   VIII.D.5.b.(ii) The actual presence of a local nuisance caused by
                           the existing stack, as determined by the Division; and

                   VIII.D.5.b.(iii) For sources seeking credit after January 12, 1979 for
                           a stack height determined using the formula, where the
                           Division requires the use of a field study or fluid model to
                           verify good engineering practice stack height; for sources
                           seeking stack height credit after November 9, 1984 based on
                           the aerodynamic influence of cooling towers; and for sources
                           seeking credit after December 31, 1970 based on the
                           aerodynamic influence of structures not adequately
                           represented by the formulae: a maximum ground level
                           concentration due in whole or part to downwash, wakes or
                           eddy effects that is at least forty percent in excess of the
                           maximum concentration experienced in the absence of such
                           downwash, wakes or eddy effects.

IX.   (State-Only) Annual Emissions Reports
IX.A. General Provisions

      IX.A.1.      Applicability

            IX.A.1.a.      Unless otherwise exempted from reporting under Section
                   IX.A.2., on or before June 30, 2027 (and on or before June 30 each
                   year thereafter), owners or operators of a stationary source
                   required to have an operating permit under Regulation Number 3,
                   Part C are required to report emissions at such stationary source
                   annually in accordance with Section IX.B.

            IX.A.1.b.      Unless otherwise exempted from reporting under Section
                   IX.A.2., on or before June 30, 2027 (and on or before June 30 each
                   year thereafter), owners or operators of a stationary source defined



                                                                                          83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  as a synthetic minor source under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                  Section IX.A.3.e. are required to report emissions at such stationary
                  source annually in accordance with Section IX.B.

           IX.A.1.c.     Unless otherwise exempted from reporting under Section
                  IX.A.2., on or before June 30, 2027 (and on or before June 30 each
                  year thereafter), owners or operators of a stationary source defined
                  as a minor source, that do not qualify as a synthetic minor source,
                  in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.31. are required to
                  report emissions at such stationary source annually in accordance
                  with Section IX.B., if they meet the following source criteria:

                  IX.A.1.c.(i)    Stationary sources whose activities include
                         electroplating, plating, polishing, anodizing, and coloring, or
                         other industrial processes, including, but not limited to,
                         thermal spraying, welding, plasma cutting, and metal heat
                         treating or other metal fabrication, except for fuel
                         combustion, that use and emit cadmium, nickel, or
                         hexavalent chromium above the de minimis thresholds in
                         Appendix C.

                  IX.A.1.c.(ii)   Stationary sources that use and emit ethylene oxide
                         above the de minimis threshold in Appendix C.

                  IX.A.1.c.(iii) Unless otherwise exempted from reporting under
                         Section IX.A.2., on or before June 30, 2028 (and on June 30
                         each year thereafter), minor sources specified in this Section
                         IX.A.1.c. that have not reported annual emissions since
                         January 1, 2020, pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                         Section II. (APEN Requirements), Regulation Number 22,
                         Part A (GHG Reporting), or the EPA Toxic Release Inventory,
                         must report 2027 emissions in accordance with IX.B.

           IX.A.1.d.     On or before June 30, 2027 (and on or before June 30 each
                  year thereafter), owners or operators of activities or equipment


                                                                                       84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  reporting under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V., are
                  required to report emissions annually in accordance with Section
                  IX.B.2. and Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. Owners or
                  operators subject to this Section IX.A.1.d. are not required to report
                  pursuant to any other provisions of Section IX.A.1.

           IX.A.1.e               On or before June 30, 2027 (and on or before June
                  30 each year thereafter), owners or operators of facilities reporting
                  any stack or fugitive air release to EPA Toxic Release Inventory
                  (TRI) must also report emissions of any TRI pollutant that is also a
                  TAC in accordance with Section IX.B., if the release is above the de
                  minimis thresholds in Appendix C.

     IX.A.2.      Exemptions

           Equipment and sources that are exempt from the requirement to report
           TAC or CAP emissions must nevertheless comply with all State and
           Federal requirements that are otherwise applicable to the exempted
           emission units or activities.

           IX.A.2.a.     Sources required to submit annual emissions reports as
                  specified in Sections IX.A.1.a. through IX.A.1.c. or IX.A.1.e. may
                  utilize the exemptions from Air Pollutant Emission Notice
                  requirements in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D. in
                  estimating actual annual criteria pollutant or precursor emissions.

           IX.A.2.b.     Sources required to submit annual emissions reports do not
                  need to quantify and include TAC emissions from the following
                  types of equipment or activities at the source.

                  IX.A.2.b.(i)    Air conditioning or ventilating systems not designed to
                         remove air pollutants generated by or released from other
                         processes or equipment.

                  IX.A.2.b.(ii)   Fireplaces used for recreational purposes, inside or
                         outside.



                                                                                         85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IX.A.2.b.(iii) Fires and equipment used for noncommercial cooking
                        of food for human consumption, or cooking of food for
                        human consumption at commercial food service
                        establishments, except for char broilers and wood fired
                        equipment (but not including campfires) in PM10
                        nonattainment areas. Charbroiler shall mean a cooking
                        device in a commercial food service establishment, either
                        gas fired or using charcoal or other fuel, upon which grease
                        drips down upon an open flame, charcoal or embers.

                 IX.A.2.b.(iv) Safety flares used to indicate danger to the public.

                 IX.A.2.b.(v) Agricultural operations such as farming, cultivating,
                        harvesting, seasonal crop drying, grain handling operations
                        that are below New Source Performance Standards de
                        minimis levels (including milling and grain elevator
                        operations), and animal feeding operations that are not
                        housed commercial swine feeding facilities as defined in
                        Regulation Number 2, Part B.

                        This exemption does not apply to an agricultural operation
                        that: (1) is a major source (as defined in Section I.B.30. of
                        this part); (2) meets or exceeds the storage capacity
                        thresholds of a federal New Source Performance Standard
                        (Regulation Number 6, Part A); or (3) participates in the early
                        reduction program of the Federal Act, Section 112. Ancillary
                        operations such as fueling stations located at farms or
                        ranches are not exempt from Air Pollutant Emission Notice
                        and permit requirements unless otherwise below the de
                        minimis emission levels contained in this regulation, and are
                        not exempt from other applicable regulation promulgated by
                        the Commission




                                                                                        86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IX.A.2.b.(vi) Emissions from, or construction, or alteration of
                        residential structures, including all buildings or other
                        structures used primarily as a place of residence, and
                        including home heating devices.

                 IX.A.2.b.(vii) Bench scale laboratory equipment and laboratory
                        equipment used exclusively for chemical and physical
                        analysis, including associated vacuum producing devices.

                 IX.A.2.b.(viii) Disturbance of surface areas for purposes of land
                        development, that do not exceed twenty-five contiguous
                        acres and that do not exceed six months in duration. (This
                        does not include mining operations or disturbance of
                        contaminated soil).

                 IX.A.2.b.(ix) Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment, that
                        uses gaseous fuel, that has a design rate less than or equal
                        to ten (10) million British thermal units (Btu) per hour, that is
                        used solely for heating buildings for personal comfort, unless
                        the aggregate annual fuel usage is greater than 75 million
                        standard cubic feet, or 77,000 million British thermal units
                        (Btu) per year. (See definition of fuel burning equipment,
                        Common Provisions Regulation).

                 IX.A.2.b.(x) Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment, other
                        than smokehouse generators and internal combustion
                        engines, that uses gaseous fuel, that has a design rate less
                        than or equal to five (5) million British thermal units (Btu) per
                        hour, unless the aggregate annual fuel usage is greater than
                        75 million standard cubic feet, or 77,000 million British
                        thermal units (Btu) per year. (See definition of fuel burning
                        equipment, Common Provisions Regulation).

                 IX.A.2.b.(xi) Internal combustion engines powering portable drilling
                        rigs.


                                                                                        87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IX.A.2.b.(xii) Sanding of streets and roads to abate traffic hazards
                        caused by ice and snow.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xiii) Open burning activities, except that all reporting and
                        permitting requirements that apply to such operations must
                        be followed (see Regulation Number 9).

                 IX.A.2.b.(xiv) Brazing, soldering, welding, or laser cutting
                        operations, except from sources with the following North
                        American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes:
                        325, 331, 332, 333, 335, 811, 333. All welding that occurs
                        strictly for short-term maintenance purposes is exempt.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xv) Street and parking lot striping.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xvi) Battery recharging areas.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xvii) Aerosol can usage.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xviii) Sawing operations, that is ancillary to facility
                        operations and is not part of the production process.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xix) The process of demolition and re bricking of furnaces
                        and kilns. This does not include subsequent operation of
                        such furnaces or kilns.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xx) Road and lot paving operations at commercial and
                        industrial facilities, except that asphalt and cement batch
                        plants require Air Pollutant Emission Notices and permits,
                        unless exempt under some other section.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxi) Use of adhesive, architectural painting, roof coating,
                        or surface preparation products for minor maintenance, and
                        repair of process and industrial equipment, and
                        maintenance, including WD-40 and other lubricants,
                        sealants, touch-up paints, spray paints, and varnishes and
                        adhesives. Minor maintenance and repair shall not include



                                                                                      88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                        maintenance and repair which is routinely scheduled or
                        which is due to predictable process upsets.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxii) Fire training activities.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxiii)       Caulking operations that are not part of a
                        production process.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxiv)        Landscaping and site housekeeping devices
                        equal to or less than ten (10) horsepower in size
                        (lawnmowers, trimmers, snow blowers, etc.).

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxv)         Fugitive emissions from landscaping activities
                        (e.g., weeding, sweeping).

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxvi)        Landscaping use of pesticides, fumigants, and
                        herbicides.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxvii)       Emergency events such as accidental fires.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxviii)      Smoking rooms and areas.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxix)        Plastic pipe welding.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxx)         Vacuum cleaning systems used exclusively for
                        industrial, commercial, or residential housekeeping
                        purposes.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxi)        Beauty salons.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxii)       Pharmacies.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxiii)      Chemical storage areas where chemicals are
                        stored in closed containers, and where total storage capacity
                        does not exceed five thousand gallons. This exemption
                        applies solely to storage of such chemicals. This exemption
                        does not apply to transfer of chemicals from, to, or between
                        such containers.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxiv)       Janitorial activities and products.



                                                                                       89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxv)       Grounds keeping activities and products.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxvi)      Sources of odorous emissions that do not
                        utilize emission control equipment for control of odorous
                        emissions. This exemption applies to the odor emissions
                        only. All other emissions are subject to other exemptions set
                        forth in this regulation. This exemption does not exempt any
                        source from the requirements of Regulation Number 2.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxvii)     Truck and car wash units.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxviii)           Office emissions, including cleaning,
                        copying, and restrooms.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xxxix)      Electrically operated curing ovens, drying
                        ovens and similar activities, articles, equipment, or
                        appurtenances. This exemption applies to the ovens only,
                        and not to the items being dried in the ovens.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xl) Equipment used exclusively for portable steam
                        cleaning.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xli) Blast cleaning equipment using a suspension of
                        abrasive in water and any exhaust system or collector
                        serving them exclusively.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlii) Commercial laundries (except dry cleaners) that do
                        not burn liquid or solid fuel.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xliii) Storage of butane, propane, or liquefied petroleum
                        gas in a vessel with a capacity of less than sixty thousand
                        gallons, provided the requirements of Regulation Number 7,
                        Section IV. are met, where applicable.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xliv) Storage tanks of capacity less than forty thousand
                        gallons of lubricating oils or used lubricating oils.




                                                                                       90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlv) Venting of compressed natural gas, butane or
                        propane gas cylinders, with a capacity of one gallon or less.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlvi) Indirect sources are exempt until a permit regulation
                        specific to indirect sources is promulgated by the
                        Commission.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlvii)       Storage tanks meeting all of the following
                        criteria:

                        IX.A.2.b.(xlvii)(A)    Annual throughput is less than four
                                 hundred thousand gallons; and

                        IX.A.2.b.(xlvii)(B)    The liquid stored is one of the following:

                                 (1)    Diesel fuels 1 D, 2 D, or 4 6;

                                 (2)    Fuel oils #1 through #6;

                                 (3)    Gas turbine fuels 1 GT through 4 GT;

                                 (4)    Oil/water mixtures with a vapor pressure equal
                                        to or lower than that of diesel fuel (Reid Vapor
                                        Pressure of 0.025 pounds per square inch
                                        absolute).

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlviii)      Natural gas vehicle fleet fueling facilities.

                 IX.A.2.b.(xlix) Electric motors driving equipment at non-commercial
                        machining shops.

                 IX.A.2.b.(l)    Recreational swimming pools.

                 IX.A.2.b.(li)   Forklifts.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lii) Handling equipment and associated activities for
                        glass that is destined for recycling.

           IX.A.2.b.(liii) Ventilation of emissions from mobile sources operating
                 within a tunnel, garage, or building that are not operating for




                                                                                        91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 transportation purposes and are subject to stationary source
                 requirements.

                 IX.A.2.b.(liv) Non-asbestos demolition.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lv) Sandblast equipment when the blast media is
                        recycled and the blasted material is collected, including
                        small sandblast glove booths.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lvi) Surface water storage impoundment of non-potable
                        water and storm water evaporation ponds, with the
                        exceptions of oil and gas production wastewater
                        impoundments (including produced water tanks) and
                        commercial facilities that accept oil and gas production
                        wastewater for processing.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lvii) Non-potable water pipeline vents.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lviii) Steam vents and safety release valves.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lix) Seal and lubricating oil systems for steam turbine
                        electric generators.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lx) Venting of natural gas lines for safety purposes. This
                        exemption does not apply to routine or predictable emissions
                        at or associated with a stationary source.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lxi) Sodium hydroxide storage tanks.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lxii) Containers, reservoirs, or tanks used exclusively for
                        dipping operations that contain no organic solvents for
                        coating objects with oils, waxes, greases, or natural or
                        synthetic resins.

                 IX.A.2.b.(lxiii) Wet screening operations notwithstanding the
                        applicability of the New Source Performance Standards
                        included in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part
                        60, Subpart OOO.



                                                                                      92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  IX.A.2.b.(lxiv) Combustion of residual, distillate, or diesel oil, Tier 4
                         or higher diesel engines: 100 gallons of fuel combusted per
                         year, or 5 hours per year of non-emergency operation. Tier
                         zero through tier 3 diesel Engines: 30 gallons of fuel
                         combusted per year, or 5 hours per year of non-emergency
                         operation. Combustion devices other than compression
                         ignition engines: 100 gallons of fuel combusted per year.

                  IX.A.2.b.(Ixv) Unpaved public and private roadways, except for
                         those sources that have processes or activities that
                         contribute to the deposition and entrainment of toxic air
                         contaminants from surface soils.

                  IX.A.2.b.(lxvi) Fugitive emissions of hazardous air pollutants that are
                         natural constituents of native soils and rock (not added or
                         concentrated by chemical or mechanical processes) NOT
                         associated with underground mines or surface mines, unless
                         the source of such emissions is a major source of hazardous
                         air pollutants under Part C of Regulation Number 3.

                  IX.A.2.b.(lxvii)      The collection and transmission processes at
                         wastewater collection systems by floor drains, manholes,
                         siphons, and lift stations.

     IX.A.3.      Definitions

           IX.A.3.a.     “Actual Emissions” means (for the purpose of Section IX.)
                  the estimated emissions determined by accounting for actual
                  emission rates associated with normal source operation and actual
                  or representative production rates (i.e., capacity utilization and
                  hours of operation) and any relevant controls for the pollutant.
                  Actual emissions include emissions of a pollutant that occur during
                  periods of startup and shutdown.




                                                                                          93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            IX.A.3.b.     “Criteria Air Pollutants or Precursors” means emissions of
                   carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), volatile organic
                   compounds (VOC), sulfur dioxide (SO2), total particulate matter 2.5
                   (PM2.5), and total particulate matter 10 (PM10) that are emitted
                   from a stationary source.

            IX.A.3.c.     “Synthetic Minor Source” means any source which would
                   otherwise meet the definition of major source for any pollutants but
                   for the existence of enforceable emission limitations contained in
                   the permit or regulations applicable to that source, pursuant to
                   Section 25-7-114(6) C.R.S.

            IX.A.3.d      .        “Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC)” means any of the
                   pollutants listed in Appendix C.

IX.B. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

      IX.B.1.             Recordkeeping

            IX.B.1.a.     Owners or operators subject to Section IX.A.1. must retain
                   all listed data elements and reports used in reporting annual
                   emissions.

                   IX.B.1.a.(i)    Calculations or modeling runs used to estimate TAC
                          emissions if calculations are performed outside of the
                          Division-approved reporting format.

                   IX.B.1.a.(ii)   Equipment sheets from vendors containing emissions
                          factors or guarantees.

                   IX.B.1.a.(iii) Safety data sheets or fuel or material analysis for
                          TAC-containing materials.

                   IX.B.1.a.(iv) Purchase or consumption records to verify quantities
                          of material used.




                                                                                        94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           IX.B.1.b.     Records must be maintained for five (5) years from the date
                  of submissions of the annual emissions report and made available
                  to the Division upon request.

     IX.B.2.      General Reporting Requirements

           IX.B.2.a.     Annual emissions reports must be submitted to the Division
                  on or before June 30 of each year, containing emissions for the
                  prior calendar year, in a Division-approved format.

           IX.B.2.b.     Reports must use the best available data to report emissions
                  in accordance with the Division-approved format.

           IX.B.2.c.     The owner or operator must submit a revised report by the
                  dates specified in Section IX.B.2.c. after discovering that an annual
                  report submitted within the previous two (2) years contained one or
                  more substantive errors. A substantive error is a mass of emissions
                  of any individual pollutant subject to reporting in Appendix C, or any
                  individual criteria air pollutant or precursor that is at least 10%
                  higher or lower than the mass of emissions of the pollutant reported
                  across the stationary source or the activities or equipment required
                  to report emissions pursuant to IX.A.1. A refinement of or
                  improvement to an emissions estimation technique or emission
                  factor is not a substantive error but must be noted in the
                  subsequent annual report after the refinement or improvement.

                  IX.B.2.c.(i)    A substantive error can be discovered independently
                         by the owner or operator, or through notification from the
                         Division. A notification email and/or letter from the Division
                         shall be considered “discovery” of the substantive error by
                         the owner or operator and triggers a requirement to submit a
                         revision.

                  IX.B.2.c.(ii)   By August 31 of the same year, if the substantive
                         error is discovered between January 1 and June 30; and



                                                                                          95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  IX.B.2.c.(iii) By February 28, if the substantive error is discovered
                         between July 1 and December 31 of the preceding calendar
                         year.

           IX.B.2.d.     Unless otherwise arranged, if there is a change of ownership
                  or control of the stationary source, activities, or equipment required
                  to report emissions pursuant to IX.A.1., prior to June 30 of the year
                  that the annual report must be submitted, the owner or operator as
                  of June 30 of that year is responsible for submitting the annual
                  emissions report.

     IX.B.3.      Required Contents of the Annual Emissions Report

           IX.B.3.a.     Reports must include the following information:

                  IX.B.3.a.(i)    The stationary source name, description, mailing
                         address, contact person and contact person phone number,
                         and physical address and location, if different than the
                         mailing address; and equipment identifiers including but not
                         limited to the AIRS number and the permit identifier
                         information (if applicable) for the source.

                  IX.B.3.a.(ii)   Process information for the stationary source
                         including, but not limited to, design capacity, throughput,
                         operations schedule, location of release of reported
                         emissions at the stationary source, AIRS number and permit
                         identifier information (if applicable) for the emission point,
                         and emissions control devices including their description and
                         efficiencies.

                  IX.B.3.a.(iii) The actual emissions including documentation of the
                         method of measurement calculation, or estimation of the
                         following air pollutants:

                         IX.B.3.a(iii)(A)      Each TAC listed in Appendix C emitted
                                  above the de minimis thresholds.



                                                                                          96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                        IX.B.3.a(iii)(B)      For criteria pollutants or precursors,
                               actual emissions must be reported for each individual
                               emission point in a nonattainment area with
                               uncontrolled actual emissions of one ton per year or
                               more of any individual criteria pollutant (pollutants are
                               not summed) for which the area is nonattainment and
                               each individual emission point in an attainment or
                               attainment/maintenance area with uncontrolled actual
                               emissions of two (2) tons per year or more of any
                               individual criteria pollutant or precursor (pollutants are
                               not summed).

                               IX.B.3.a(iii)(B)(1)    For TAC emissions that are VOC,
                                       the actual VOC emissions must be reported if
                                       they are used in the calculations for reporting
                                       VOC-affiliated TAC.

                               IX.B.3.a(iii)(B)(3)    For TAC emissions that are part
                                       of PM2.5 or PM10, the actual PM2.5 and PM10
                                       must be reported if they are used in the
                                       calculations for reporting the PM2.5 or PM10-
                                       affiliated TAC.

                  IX.B.3.a.(iv) Reports may group similar equipment under a single
                        emission point in accordance with Section IX.B.3.b. For
                        emissions that are not assigned to an emission point, the
                        report must include a description of the activity or equipment.
                        Emissions may be grouped and reported as total by type
                        (fugitive, portable, other insignificant activity).

                  IX.B.3.a.(v) Owners or operators must accept the certification
                        statement, as to the validity and accuracy of the report, as
                        specified in the Division-specified reporting platform or form.

           IX.B.3.b.    Emission Point, Activity or Equipment Grouping


                                                                                       97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Multiple pieces of equipment or processes from a single stationary source may be
grouped or associated together and emissions reported in aggregate, as allowed in the
Division-approved reporting format.




                                                                                   98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

APPENDIX A
De Minimis Levels for Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants

An Air Pollutant Emission Notice must be filed for each emission point (individual or
grouped) that has uncontrolled actual emissions equal to or greater than 250 pounds
per year of any non-criteria reportable pollutant listed in Appendix B. As provided in
Section II.C.4., sources submitting revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices due to
Sections II.C.1.a., II.C.1.b., or II.C.1.e. must report actual annual emissions. Actual
annual emissions for sources utilizing emission control equipment or procedures
represent controlled actual annual emissions.

If a non-criteria reportable pollutant is not listed in Appendix B, it does not have to be
reported unless it is included in a chemical compound group.

Definitions

Point - an individual emission point or a group of individual emission points reported on
one Air Pollutant Emission Notice as provided for in Part A, Section II.B.4.

APPENDIX B
Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants (Sorted by CAS Number)

Note: HAP means federal, or federal and state hazardous air pollutant

       HAPs means state-only hazardous air pollutant



              CAS                     Toxics

 HAP          -                       Lindane (all isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane)

              -                       Thallium compounds

 HAPs         -                       Nitrilotriacetic acid, Ca-, Na-, K salts

              -                       Ozone depleting compounds (CFC, etc.)

 HAP          0                       Antimony compounds

 HAP          0                       Arsenic compounds



                                                                                             99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       0                      Beryllium compounds

HAP       0                      Cadmium compounds

HAP       0                      Chromium compounds (incl. 6+ compounds,
                                 etc.)

HAP       0                      Cobalt compounds (as cobalt metal dust and
                                 fumes)

HAP       0                      Coke Oven Emissions

HAP       0                      Cyanide compounds

HAP       0                      Fine mineral fibers

HAP       0                      Glycol ethers

HAP       0                      Lead compounds (except elemental lead)

HAP       0                      Manganese compounds

HAP       0                      Mercury compounds

HAP       0                      Nickel compounds (incl. nickel subsulfide)

HAP       0                      Polycyclic Organic Matter

HAP       0                      Radionuclides (including radon)

HAP       0                      Selenium compounds

HAP       50000                  Formaldehyde

HAP       51285                  2,4-Dinitrophenol

HAP       51796                  Ethyl carbamate (Urethane)

HAP       53963                  2-Acetylaminofluorene

          54115                  Nicotine

          54626                  Aminopterin



                                                                               100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAPs      55185                  N-Nitrosodiethylamine

          55914                  Isofluorphate

HAPs      55981                  1,4-Butanediol dimethanesulphonate

HAP       56235                  Carbon tetrachloride

HAP       56382                  Parathion

          56724                  Coumaphos

HAP       57147                  1,1-Dimethyl hydrazine

          57249                  Strychnine

HAP       57578                  Propiolactone, beta

HAP       57749                  Chlordane

HAP       59892                  N-Nitrosomorpholine

HAP       60117                  Dimethyl aminoazobenzene

HAP       60344                  Methyl hydrazine

HAP       60355                  Acetamide

          60413                  Strychnine sulfate

          60515                  Dimethoate

HAPs      60571                  Dieldrin

HAP       62533                  Aniline

HAP       62737                  Dichlorvos

          62748                  Sodium fluoroacetate

HAP       62759                  N-Nitrosodimethylamine

HAP       63252                  Carbaryl




                                                                              101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          64006                  Phenol,3-(1-methylethyl)-methylcarbamate

HAP       64675                  Diethyl sulfate

          66819                  Cyclohexamide

HAP       67561                  Methanol (Methyl alcohol)

HAP       67663                  Chloroform (Trichloromethane)

HAP       67721                  Hexachloroethane

HAP       68122                  Dimethylformamide

HAP       71432                  Benzene

HAP       71556                  1,1,1-Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)

          72208                  Endrin

HAP       72435                  Methoxychlor

HAP       74839                  Methyl bromide (Bromomethane)

HAP       74873                  Methyl chloride (Chloromethane)

HAP       74884                  Methyl iodide (Iodomethane)

          74931                  Methyl mercaptan (Methanethiol)

HAP       75003                  Ethyl chloride (Chloroethane)

HAP       75014                  Vinyl chloride

HAP       75058                  Acetonitrile

HAP       75070                  Acetaldehyde

HAP       75092                  Methylene chloride (Dichloromethane)

HAP       75150                  Carbon disulfide

          75183                  Dimethyl sulfide (Methyl sulfide)




                                                                              102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       75218                  Ethylene oxide

HAP       75252                  Bromoform

HAP       75343                  Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)

HAP       75354                  1,1-Dichloroethylene (Vinylidene chloride)

HAP       75445                  Phosgene

HAP       75558                  1,2-Propylenimine (2-Methyl aziridine)

HAP       75569                  Propylene oxide

HAP       76448                  Heptachlor

HAP       77474                  Hexachlorocyclopentadiene

HAP       77781                  Dimethyl sulfate

          77816                  Tabun

          78342                  Dioxathion

          78535                  Amiton

HAP       78591                  Isophorone

HAP       78875                  Propylene dichloride (1,2-Dichloropropane)

          78944                  Methyl vinyl ketone (3-butene-2-one)

HAPs      78988                  Methylglyoxal

HAP       79005                  1,1,2-Trichloroethane

HAP       79016                  Trichloroethylene (TCE)

HAP       79061                  Acrylamide

HAP       79107                  Acrylic acid

HAP       79118                  Chloroacetic acid




                                                                                103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          79196                  Thiosemicarbizide

          79210                  Peracetic acid

          79221                  Methyl chloroformate

HAP       79345                  1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane

HAP       79447                  Dimethyl carbamoyl chloride

HAP       79469                  2-Nitropropane

HAP       80626                  Methyl methacrylate

          81812                  Warfarin

          82666                  Diphacinone

HAP       82688                  Pentachloronitrobenzene (Quintobenzene)

HAP       84742                  Dibutyl phthalate

HAP       85449                  Phthalic anhydride

          86500                  Methyl azinphos

          86884                  ANTU (alpha-naphthylthiourea)

HAP       87683                  Hexachlorobutadiene

HAP       87865                  Pentachlorophenol

          88051                  Aniline,2,4,6-Trimethyl

HAP       88062                  2,4,6-Trichlorophenol

HAP       90040                  o-Anisidine

          91087                  2,6-Toluene diisocyanate

HAP       91203                  Naphthalene

HAP       91225                  Quinoline




                                                                           104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       91941                  3,3-Dichlorobenzidene

HAP       92524                  Biphenyl

HAP       92671                  4-Aminobiphenyl

HAP       92875                  Benzidine (p-Diamino diphenyl)

HAP       92933                  4-Nitrobiphenyl

HAP       94757                  2,4-D, salts and esters (2,4-
                                 Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid)

HAP       95476                  o-Xylene

HAP       95487                  o-Cresol

HAP       95534                  o-Toluidine

HAP       95807                  2,4-Toluene diamine

HAP       95954                  2,4,5-Trichlorophenol

HAP       96093                  Styrene oxide

HAP       96128                  1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane

HAP       96457                  Ethylene thiourea

HAP       98077                  Benzotrichloride

HAP       98828                  Cumene

HAP       98862                  Acetophenone

          98873                  Benzal chloride [(Dichloromethyl)benzene;
                                 benzylidenechloride]

HAP       98953                  Nitrobenzene

          99989                  Dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine

HAP       100027                 4-Nitrophenol



                                                                             105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       100414                 Ethyl benzene (Phenylethane)

HAP       100425                 Styrene

HAP       100447                 Benzyl chloride, (Chloromethyl)benzene

HAP       101144                 4,4-Methylene bis (2-chloroaniline)

HAP       101688                 Methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI)

HAP       101779                 4,4-Methylenedianiline

HAP       106423                 p-Xylene

HAP       106445                 p-Cresol

HAP       106467                 1,4-Dichlorobenzene

HAP       106503                 p-Phenylenediamine

HAP       106514                 Quinone

HAP       106887                 1,2-Epoxybutane

HAP       106898                 Epichlorohydrin (1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane)

HAP       106934                 Ethylene dibromide (1,2-Dibromoethane)

          106967                 Propargyl bromide

HAP       106990                 1,3-Butadiene

HAP       107028                 Acrolein

HAP       107051                 Allyl chloride

HAP       107062                 Ethylene dichloride (1,2-Dichloroethane)

          107073                 Chloroethanol

HAP       107131                 Acrylonitrile

          107153                 Ethylene diamine




                                                                               106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          107186                 Allyl alcohol

HAP       107211                 Ethylene glycol

HAP       107302                 Chloromethyl methyl ether

          107448                 Sarin

          107493                 TEPP (Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate)

HAP       108054                 Vinyl acetate

HAP       108101                 Methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK) (Hexone)

          108236                 Isopropyl chlorformate

HAP       108316                 Maleic anhydride

HAP       108383                 m-Xylene

HAP       108394                 m-Cresol

HAP       108883                 Toluene

HAP       108907                 Chlorobenzene

          108918                 Cyclohexylamine

HAP       108952                 Phenol

          108985                 Thiophenol (Phenyl mercaptan)

          110009                 Furan

HAP       110543                 Hexane

          110576                 Trans 1,4-dichlorobutene

          110894                 Piperidine

HAP       111422                 Diethanolamine

HAP       111444                 Dichloroethyl ether (Bis(2-chloroethyl)ether)




                                                                                 107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       114261                 Propoxur (Baygon)

          115264                 Dimefox

HAPs      115286                 Chlorendic acid

          115297                 Endosulfan

          115902                 Fensulfothion

          116063                 Aldicarb (Temik)

HAPs      117102                 Chrysazin (Dorbane)

HAP       117817                 Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) (Dioctyl
                                 phthalate)

HAP       118741                 Hexachlorobenzene

          119380                 Isopropylmethylpyrazolyl dimethylcarbamate
                                 (Isolan)

HAP       119904                 3,3-Dimethoxybenzidine

HAP       119937                 3,3'-Dimethyl benzidine

HAP       120809                 Catechol

HAP       120821                 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene

HAP       121142                 2,4-Dinitrotoluene

HAP       121448                 Triethylamine

HAP       121697                 N,N-Diethyl aniline (N,N-Dimethylaniline)

          122145                 Fenitrothion

HAPs      122601                 Phenyl glyceryl ether (3 phenoxy 1,2
                                 propanediol)

HAP       122667                 1,2-Diphenylhydrazine




                                                                                108
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       123319                 Hydroquinone

HAP       123386                 Propionaldehyde

          123739                 Crotonaldehyde (E)

HAP       123911                 1,4-Dioxane (1,4-Diethyleneoxide)

          126987                 Methacrylonitrile

HAP       126998                 Chloroprene (2-Chloro-1,3-butadiene)

HAP       127184                 Perchloroethylene (Tetrachloroethylene)

          129066                 Warfarin sodium

HAP       131113                 Dimethyl phthalate

          131522                 Sodium pentachlorophenate

HAPs      132274                 2-Biphenylol sodium salt

HAP       132649                 Dibenzofurans

HAP       133062                 Captan

HAP       133904                 Chloramben (3-amino-2,5-dichloro benzoic
                                 acid)

          140761                 Pyridine, 2-methyl-5-vinyl

HAP       140885                 Ethyl acrylate

          141662                 Dicrotophos

          144490                 Fluoracetic acid

          149746                 Dichloromethylphenylsilane

HAP       151564                 Ethylene imine (Aziridine)

          152169                 Diphosphoramide, octamethyl

HAP       156627                 Calcium cyanamide



                                                                                109
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          297789                 Isobenzan

          297972                 Thionazin (O,O-Diethyl-O-(2-
                                 pyrazinyl)phosphorothioate)

          298000                 Parathion-methyl

          298022                 Phorate

          298044                 Disulfoton

HAP       302012                 Hydrazine

HAPs      309002                 Aldrin

          315184                 Mexacarbate

HAP       334883                 Diazomethane

          359068                 Fluoroacetyl chloride

          371620                 Ethylene fluorohydrin

HAP       463581                 Carbonyl sulfide

          465736                 Isodrin

          470906                 Chlorfenvinfos

          505602                 Mustard gas (Dichlorodiethyl sulfide)

          509148                 Tetranitromethane

HAP       510156                 Chlorobenzilate (ethyl-4,4'-dichlorobenzilate)

HAP       532274                 2-Chloroacetophenone

          534076                 Bis(chloromethyl)ketone

HAP       534521                 4,6-Dinitro o-cresol, and salts

          535897                 Crimidine

          538078                 Ethyl bis (2-chloroethyl)amine



                                                                                  110
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       540841                 2,2,4-Trimethylpentane

          540885                 Tertiary Butyl Acetate

          541537                 Dithiobiuret

HAP       542756                 1,3-Dichloropropene

HAP       542881                 Bischloromethyl ether

          542905                 Ethylthiocyanate

          555771                 Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine

          556616                 Methyl isothiocyanate

          563122                 Ethion

HAP       584849                 2,4-Toluene diisocyanate

HAP       593602                 Vinyl bromide

HAPs      615532                 N-nitroso-N-methylurethane

HAP       624839                 Methyl isocyanate

          624920                 Methyl disulfide

          625558                 Isopropyl formate

          640197                 Fluoroacetamide

          644644                 Dimetilan

          675149                 Cyanuric fluoride

HAP       680319                 Hexamethylphosphoramide

HAP       684935                 N-nitroso-N-methylurea

          732116                 Phosmet

          786196                 Carbophenothion




                                                                       111
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          814686                 Acrylyl chloride

HAP       822060                 Hexamethylene-1,6-diisocyanate

          919868                 Demeton-s-methyl

HAPs      924163                 N-Nitroso-di-n-butylamine

          944229                 Fonofos

          947024                 Phosfolan

          950107                 Mephosfolan

          950378                 Methidathion

          991424                 Norbormide

HAP       1120714                1,3-Propane sultone

          1122607                Nitrocyclohexane

          1314847                Zinc phosphide

HAP       1319773                Cresylic acid/Cresols

HAP       1330207                Xylene (and mixed isomers)

HAP       1332214                Asbestos

HAP       1336363                Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) (Aroclors)

          1397940                Antimycin A

HAPs      1402682                Aflatoxins

          1420071                Dinoterb

          1464535                Diepoxybutane

          1563662                Carbofuran

HAP       1582098                Trifluralin




                                                                               112
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

HAP       1634044                MTBE (Methyl tertiary butyl ether)

          1642542                Diethylchlorophosphate

HAP       1746016                2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)

          1910425                Paraquat

          1982474                Chloroxuron

          2001958                Valinomycin

          2032657                Methiocarb

          2074502                Paraquat methosulfate

HAPs      2475458                Disperse Blue 1

          2497076                Oxydisulfoton

          2524030                Dimethylphosphorochloridothioate

          2540821                Formothion

          2631370                Promecarb

          2642719                Ethyl azinphos

HAPs      2646175                CI Solvent Orange 2

          2778043                Endothion

HAP       3547044                DDE (Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene)

          3689245                Sulfotep

          3691358                Chlorophacinone

          3734972                Amiton oxalate

          3735237                Methyl phenkapton

          3878191                Fuberidazole




                                                                              113
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          4098719                Isophorone diisocyanate

          4170303                Crotonaldehyde

          4301502                Fluenetil

          4835114                Hexamethylenediamine, N,N-dibutyl

          5836293                Coumatetralyl

          7446119                Sulfur trioxide

HAP       7550450                Titanium tetrachloride

HAPs      7644410                1,4-Dichloro-2-butene

HAP       7647010                Hydrochloric acid (Hydrogen chloride)

HAP       7664393                Hydrogen fluoride (Hydrofluoric acid)

          7664417                Ammonia

          7664939                Sulfuric acid

          7697372                Nitric acid

HAP       7723140                Phosphorous

          7726956                Bromine

          7782414                Fluorine

HAP       7782505                Chlorine

          7783064                Hydrogen sulfide

          7786347                Mevinphos

HAP       7803512                Phosphine

HAP       8001352                Toxaphene (Camphechlor)

          8065483                Demeton




                                                                                 114
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          10265926               Methamidophos

          10294345               Boron trichloride

          10311849               Dialifor

          106945                 N-propyl bromide

          13071799               Terbufos

          13171216               Phosphamidon

          13194484               Ethoprophos (Ethoprop)

          13494809               Tellurium

          16752775               Methomyl

          17702577               Formparanate

          19287457               Diborane

          20859738               Aluminum phosphide

          21548323               Fosthietan

          21609905               Leptophos

          21923239               Chlorthiophos

          22224926               Fenaminophos (Fenamiphos)

          23135220               Oxamyl

          23422539               Formotanate hydrochloride

          23505411               Pirimifos-ethyl

          24934916               Chlormephos

          28347139               Xylylene dichloride

          28772567               Bromodiolone




                                                                     115
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

          CAS                    Toxics

          53558251               Pyriminil

HAPs      60153493               3-(N-Nitrosomethylamine) (Propionitrile)

HAPs      64091914               Ketone, 3-pyridyl-3-(N-methyl-N-nitrosoamino)
                                 propyl

HAPs      108171262              Chlorinated paraffins (C12, 60% chlorine)




                                                                                 116
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

APPENDIX C
Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC) List (Sorted by CAS Number) with De Minimis
Reporting

Each owner or operator of a source required to submit an annual emissions report must
include in the report all TAC emissions at or above the de minimis reporting threshold
limits listed in Appendix C unless otherwise noted.

Table Notes:

1.    The reporting threshold is based on the source-wide annual actual TAC
      emissions from the previous calendar year for each individual TAC, after
      considering any controls that may be installed. Emissions from any exemptions in
      Section IX.A.2. do not need to be included in this source-wide total.

2.    For equipment and activities reporting TAC under Regulation 7, Part B, Section
      V.B.1.h. (ONGAEIR), the reporting threshold is based on the facility total actual
      emissions from the previous calendar year for each individual TAC, after
      considering any controls that may be installed. The facility total only includes
      equipment or activities owned or operated by the reporting customer number.
      Emissions from any exemptions in Regulation 7, Part B, Section V.B.1.h.(iii). do
      not need to be included.

3.    Emissions of ultrafine particles and black carbon are exempt from reporting
      under Section IX.B and under Regulation 7, Part B, Section V.B.1.h. (ONGAEIR).




                                                                                         117
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                           Reporting
                                                           Threshold
CAS                                                        (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                 1


13010474    1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea   250

106945      1-bromopropane                                 27

5522430     1-nitropyrene                                  2

            1,(2-chloroethyl)-3-(4 methyl-cyclohexyl)-1
13909096    nitrosourea                                    250

75354       1,1-Dichloroethylene (Vinylidene chloride)     62

57147       1,1-Dimethyl hydrazine                         3.20E-02

71556       1,1,1-Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)      250

79005       1,1,2-Trichloroethane                          3

79345       1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane                      3

96128       1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane                    2.60E-02

122667      1,2-Diphenylhydrazine                          0.72

106887      1,2-Epoxybutane                                250

75558       1,2-Propylenimine (2-Methyl aziridine)         250

120821      1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene                         32

106990      1,3-Butadiene                                  5

542756      1,3-Dichloropropene                            39

1120714     1,3-Propane sultone                            0.23

55981       1,4-Butanediol dimethanesulphonate             250

764410      1,4-Dichloro-2-butene                          3.80E-02




                                                                          118
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                           Reporting
                                                           Threshold
CAS                                                        (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                 1


106467      1,4-Dichlorobenzene                            14

123911      1,4-Dioxane (1,4-Diethyleneoxide)              32

42397648    1,6-dinitropyrene                              2.60E-02

42397659    1,8-dinitropyrene                              0.26

53963       2-Acetylaminofluorene                          7.60E-02

68006837    2-amino-3-methyl-9h-pyrido[2,3-b]indole        250

76180966    2-amino-3-methylimadazo[4,5-f]quinoline        250

67730114    2-amino-6-methyldipyrido[1,2-a32-d]imidazole   250

67730103    2-aminodipyrido[1,2-a3,2-d]imidazole           250

132274      2-Biphenylol sodium salt                       250

532274      2-Chloroacetophenone                           0.47

607578      2-nitrofluorene                                26

79469       2-Nitropropane                                 0.27

540841      2,2,4-Trimethylpentane                         250

1746016     2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)                          2.20E-04

            2,4-D, salts and esters (2,4-                  250
94757       Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid)

51285       2,4-Dinitrophenol                              250

121142      2,4-Dinitrotoluene                             2

95807       2,4-Toluene diamine                            0.14




                                                                          119
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                       Reporting
                                                       Threshold
CAS                                                    (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                             1


584849      2,4-Toluene diisocyanate                   0.13

95954       2,4,5-Trichlorophenol                      250

88062       2,4,6-Trichlorophenol                      51

91087       2,6-Toluene diisocyanate                   0.13

60153493    3-(N-Nitrosomethylamine) (Propionitrile)   250

91941       3,3-Dichlorobenzidene                      0.46

119904      3,3-Dimethoxybenzidine                     250

119937      3,3'-Dimethyl benzidine                    250

92671       4-Aminobiphenyl                            2.60E-02

92933       4-Nitrobiphenyl                            250

100027      4-Nitrophenol                              73

57835924    4-nitropyrene                              1

101144      4,4-Methylene bis (2-chloroaniline)        0.37

101779      4,4-Methylenedianiline                     0.34

534521      4,6-Dinitro o-cresol, and salts            8

484208      5-methoxypsoralen                          250

7496028     6-nitrochrysene                            1.60E-02

298817      8-methoxypsoralen                          250

83329       acenaphthene                               3

208968      acenaphthylene                             3




                                                                      120
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 Reporting
                                 Threshold
CAS                              (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name       1


75070       Acetaldehyde         72

60355       Acetamide            8

75058       Acetonitrile         250

98862       Acetophenone         250

107028      Acrolein             0.32

79061       Acrylamide           0.99

79107       Acrylic acid         3

107131      Acrylonitrile        2

23214928    Adrianmycin          250

1402682     Aflatoxins           250

309002      Aldrin               3.20E-02

107186      Allyl alcohol        2

107051      Allyl chloride       16

7664417     Ammonia              250

62533       Aniline              16

120127      anthracene           2

            Antimony compounds   3

1309644     Antimony oxide       3

            Arsenic compounds    3.70E-02

1332214     Asbestos             0.69




                                                121
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                          Reporting
                                                          Threshold
CAS                                                       (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                1


320672      Azactidine                                    250

446866      Azathioprine                                  250

56553       benz(a)anthracene                             0.79

71432       Benzene                                       20

92875       Benzidine (p-Diamino diphenyl)                1.50E-03

50328       benzo(a)pyrene                                3.20E-02

205992      benzo(b)fluoranthene                          0.79

192972      benzo(e)pyrene                                3.20E-02

207089      benzo(k)fluoranthene                          0.79

98077       Benzotrichloride                              250

100447      Benzyl chloride, (Chloromethyl)benzene        3

            Beryllium compounds                           6.60E-02

92524       Biphenyl                                      6

            Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) (Dioctyl   66
117817      phthalate)

154938      Bischloroethyl nitrosourea                    250

542881      Bischloromethyl ether                         2.50E-03

            Black carbon

10294345    Boron trichloride                             250

7726956     Bromine                                       27




                                                                         122
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                             Reporting
                                                             Threshold
CAS                                                          (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                   1


75252       Bromoform                                        143

2646175     C1 solvent orange2                               250

            Cadmium compounds                                8.80E-02

156627      Calcium cyanamide                                13

133062      Captan                                           239

63252       Carbaryl                                         250

75150       Carbon disulfide                                 250

56235       Carbon tetrachloride                             26

463581      Carbonyl sulfide                                 158

120809      Catechol                                         250

133904      Chloramben (3-amino-2,5-dichloro benzoic acid)   250

57749       Chlordane                                        2

115286      Chlorendic acid                                  250

108171262   Chlorinated paraffins (C12, 60% chlorine)        250

7782505     Chlorine                                         2

494031      Chlornaphazine                                   250

79118       Chloroacetic acid                                250

108907      Chlorobenzene                                    250

510156      Chlorobenzilate (ethyl-4,4'-dichlorobenzilate)   2

67663       Chloroform (Trichloromethane)                    7




                                                                            123
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                            Reporting
                                                            Threshold
CAS                                                         (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                  1


107302      Chloromethyl methyl ether                       0.23

126998      Chloroprene (2-Chloro-1,3-butadiene)            0.33

54749905    Chlorozotocin                                   2.30E-03

            Chromium compounds (incl. 6+ compounds, etc.)   1.30E-02

18540299    Chromium compounds,hexavalent                   1.30E-02

117102      Chrysazin (Dorbane)                             250

218019      Chrysene                                        0.79

15663271    Cisplatin                                       250

305033      Clorambucil                                     250

            Cobalt compounds (as cobalt metal dust and      1.80E-02
            fumes)

            Coke Oven Emissions                             0.16

1319773     Cresylic acid/Cresols                           250

4170303     Crotonaldehyde                                  128

98828       Cumene                                          250

            Cyanide compounds                               13

50180       Cyclophosphamide                                250

59865133    Cyclosporin A                                   250

79217600    Cyclosporine                                    250

3547044     DDE (Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene)          250




                                                                           124
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                            Reporting
                                                            Threshold
CAS                                                         (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                  1


334883      Diazomethane                                    250

53703       dibenz(a,h)anthracene                           0.16

132649      Dibenzofurans                                   250

84742       Dibutyl phthalate                               250

111444      Dichloroethyl ether (Bis(2-chloroethyl)ether)   0.48

62737       Dichlorvos                                      2

60571       Dieldrin                                        3.40E-02

111422      Diethanolamine                                  3

64675       Diethyl sulfate                                 250

75183       Dimethylsulfide                                 3

60117       Dimethyl aminoazobenzene                        0.12

79447       Dimethyl carbamoyl chloride                     250

131113      Dimethyl phthalate                              250

77781       Dimethyl sulfate                                250

68122       Dimethylformamide                               250

56531       Diethylstilbestrol                              1.60E-03

2475458     Disperse Blue 1                                 250

106898      Epichlorohydrin (1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane)     16

12510428    Erionite                                        250

140885      Ethyl acrylate                                  126




                                                                           125
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                         Reporting
                                                         Threshold
CAS                                                      (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                               1


100414      Ethyl benzene (Phenylethane)                 63

51796       Ethyl carbamate (Urethane)                   0.34

75003       Ethyl chloride (Chloroethane)                250

106934      Ethylene dibromide (1,2-Dibromoethane)       0.26

107062      Ethylene dichloride (1,2-Dichloroethane)     6

107211      Ethylene glycol                              250

151564      Ethylene imine (Aziridine)                   8.30E-03

75218       Ethylene oxide                               3.20E-02

96457       Ethylene thiourea                            12

75343       Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)   99

            Fine mineral fibers                          250

206440      fluoranthene                                 0.79

86737       fluorene                                     3

7782414     Fluorine                                     205

50000       Formaldehyde                                 12

            Glycol ethers                                250

16568028    Gyromitrin                                   250

76448       Heptachlor                                   0.12

118741      Hexachlorobenzene                            0.34

87683       Hexachlorobutadiene                          7




                                                                        126
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                             Reporting
                                                             Threshold
CAS                                                          (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                   1


608731      Hexachlorocyclohexane-tech                       0.3

77474       Hexachlorocyclopentadiene                        3

67721       Hexachloroethane                                 14

822060      Hexamethylene-1,6-diisocyanate                   0.16

680319      Hexamethylphosphoramide                          250

110543      Hexane                                           250

302012      Hydrazine                                        3.20E-02

7647010     Hydrochloric acid (Hydrogen chloride)            250

74908       hydrogen cyanide                                 13

7664393     Hydrogen fluoride (Hydrofluoric acid)            221

7783064     Hydrogen sulfide                                 32

123319      Hydroquinone                                     250

193395      indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene                           0.79

78591       Isophorone                                       250

            Ketone, 3-pyridyl-3-(N-methyl-N-nitrosoamino)    250
64091914    propyl

319846      L-hexachlorocyclohexane                          8.80E-02

            Lead compounds (except elemental lead)           2

            Lindane (all isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane)   0.3

108394      m-Cresol                                         250




                                                                            127
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                     Reporting
                                                     Threshold
CAS                                                  (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                           1


108383      m-Xylene                                 250

108316      Maleic anhydride                         11

            Manganese compounds                      0.79

            Mercury compounds                        5

126987      Methacrylonitrile                        250

67561       Methanol (Methyl alcohol)                250

590965      Methanol, (methyl-onn-azoxy)             250

72435       Methoxychlor                             250

74839       Methyl bromide (Bromomethane)            79

74873       Methyl chloride (Chloromethane)          88

60344       Methyl hydrazine                         0.16

74884       Methyl iodide (Iodomethane)              250

108101      Methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK) (Hexone)   250

624839      Methyl isocyanate                        16

80626       Methyl methacrylate                      250

75092       Methylene chloride (Dichloromethane)     250

101688      Methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI)    9

78988       Methylglyoxol                            250

1634044     MTBE (Methyl tertiary butyl ether)       250

70257       N-methyl-n-nitro-n-nitrosoguanidine      6.60E-02




                                                                    128
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                                   Reporting
                                                                   Threshold
CAS                                                                (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                         1


924163      N-Nitroso-di-n-butylamine                              9.90E-02

684935      N-nitroso-N-methylurea                                 4.60E-03

615532      N-nitroso-N-methylurethane                             250

55185       N-Nitrosodiethylamine                                  3.70E-03

62759       N-Nitrosodimethylamine                                 7.20E-03

59892       N-Nitrosomorpholine                                    8.30E-02

16543558    N-nitrosonornicotine                                   250

121697      N,N-Diethyl aniline (N,N-Dimethylaniline)              250

91203       Naphthalene                                            5

            Nickel compounds (incl. nickel subsulfide)             0.16

7697372     Nitric acid                                            205

2399817     Nitrilotriacetic acid, beryllium salt(1:1)             250

            Nitrilotriacetic acid, Ca-, Na-, K salts               250

1188472     Nitrilotriacetic acid, copper(2+)salt(1:1)             250

1188483     Nitrilotriacetic acid, magnesium salt(1:1)             250

19010732    Nitrilotriacetic acid,aluminium (3+) complex           250

46242448    Nitrilotriacetic acid,antimony (3+) complex            250

2399839     Nitrilotriacetic acid,barium salt(1:1)                 250

18983727    Nitrilotriacetic acid,beryllium potassium salt (1:1)   250

18432547    Nitrilotriacetic acid,cadmium (2+) complex             250




                                                                                  129
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                                   Reporting
                                                                   Threshold
CAS                                                                (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                         1


23555988    Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium potassium salt (2:1:4)   250

2455085     Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium potassium salt(1:1:1)    250

14981089    Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium salt                     250

62979896    Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium salt (2:3)               250

2399942     Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium salt(1:1)                250

60034459    Nitrilotriacetic acid,calcium sodium salt (1:1:1)      250

29027905    Nitrilotriacetic acid,cerium salt                      250

23319519    Nitrilotriacetic acid,cobalt (3+) complex              250

53108502    Nitrilotriacetic acid,cobalt (3+) hydrogen complex     250

            Nitrilotriacetic acid,compound with iron chloride,     250
14695886    as FeCl3

15844527    Nitrilotriacetic acid,copper (2+) complex              250

            Nitrilotriacetic acid,copper (2+) complex              250
71484805    ammonium salt

            Nitrilotriacetic acid,copper (2+) complex sodium       250
53108477    salt

72629493    Nitrilotriacetic acid,dilithium salt                   250

2399862     Nitrilotriacetic acid,dipotassium salt                 250

86892899    Nitrilotriacetic acid,disodium ammonium salt           250

15467206    Nitrilotriacetic acid,disodium salt                    250




                                                                                  130
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                                     Reporting
                                                                     Threshold
CAS                                                                  (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                           1


            Nitrilotriacetic acid,disodium salt, compound with       250
5798436     oxo (dihydrogen nit)

23255030    Nitrilotriacetic acid,disodium salt, monohydrate         250

10413715    Nitrilotriacetic acid,erbium(3+) salt (3:1)              250

28927380    Nitrilotriacetic acid,holmium salt                       250

19456587    Nitrilotriacetic acid,inidium (3+) complex               250

            Nitrilotriacetic acid,iron (2+) complex sodium salt      250
61017627    (1:1:1)

16448547    Nitrilotriacetic acid,iron (3+) complex                  250

79915085    Nitrilotriacetic acid,lead (2+) potassium salt (1:1:1)   250

79849028    Nitrilotriacetic acid,lead (2+) salt (1:1)               250

79915096    Nitrilotriacetic acid,lead (2+) salt (2:3)               250

73772915    Nitrilotriacetic acid,magnesium salt                     250

36711587    Nitrilotriacetic acid,manganese salt                     250

18105038    Nitrilotriacetic acid,mercury (2+) salt (2:3)            250

15934028    Nitrilotriacetic acid,monoammonium salt                  250

18946946    Nitrilotriacetic acid,neodymium (3+) salt (1:1)          250

34831033    Nitrilotriacetic acid,nickel (2+) hydrogen complex       250

22965602    Nitrilotriacetic acid,nickel (3+) complex                250

            Nitrilotriacetic acid,potassium magnesium                250
2399884     salt(1:1:1)



                                                                                    131
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                                    Reporting
                                                                    Threshold
CAS                                                                 (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                          1


25817247    Nitrilotriacetic acid,potassium salt                    250

23555966    Nitrilotriacetic acid,potassium strontium salt (2:4:1) 250

2399895     Nitrilotriacetic acid,potassium strontium salt(1:1:1)   250

3130958     Nitrilotriacetic acid,scandium (3+) salt (1:1)          250

10042849    Nitrilotriacetic acid,sodium salt (unspecified)         250

92988119    Nitrilotriacetic acid,strontium sodium salt             250

53818841    Nitrilotriacetic acid,tin (2+) salt                     250

32685179    Nitrilotriacetic acid,triammonium salt                  250

50648027    Nitrilotriacetic acid,tricadium (2+) complex            250

2399851     Nitrilotriacetic acid,tripotassium salt                 250

92474390    Nitrilotriacetic acid,trisilver salt                    250

5064313     Nitrilotriacetic acid,trisodium salt                    250

18662538    Nitrilotriacetic acid,trisodium salt monohydrate        250

15414252    Nitrilotriacetic acid,yttrium (3+) salt (1:1)           250

29507582    Nitrilotriacetic acid,zinc (3+) complex sodium salt     250

98953       Nitrobenzene                                            4

86500       Methyl azinphos                                         158

90040       o-Anisidine                                             3

95487       o-Cresol                                                250

95534       o-Toluidine                                             3




                                                                                   132
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                                Reporting
                                                                Threshold
CAS                                                             (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                      1


95476       o-Xylene                                            250

106445      p-Cresol                                            250

106503      p-Phenylenediamine                                  250

106423      p-Xylene                                            250

56382       Parathion                                           250

82688       Pentachloronitrobenzene (Quintobenzene)             250

87865       Pentachlorophenol                                   31

79210       Peracetic acid                                      12

127184      Perchloroethylene (Tetrachloroethylene)             250

85018       phenanthrene                                        13

108952      Phenol                                              250

122601      Phenyl glyceryl ether (3 phenoxy 1,2 propanediol)   250

75445       Phosgene                                            5

7803512     Phosphine                                           5

7723140     Phosphorous                                         250

85449       Phthalic anhydride                                  250

1336363     Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) (Aroclors)         0.28

            Polycyclic Organic Matter                           3.20E-02

366701      Procarbazine hydrochloride                          250

57578       Propiolactone, beta                                 250




                                                                               133
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                         Reporting
                                                         Threshold
CAS                                                      (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                               1


123386      Propionaldehyde                              126

114261      Propoxur (Baygon)                            250

78875       Propylene dichloride (1,2-Dichloropropane)   43

75569       Propylene oxide                              43

129000      pyrene                                       0.79

91225       Quinoline                                    250

106514      Quinone                                      250

            Radionuclides (including radon)              250

10043922    Radon decay products                         250

            Selenium compounds                           250

100425      Styrene                                      250

96093       Styrene oxide                                250

7446119     Sulfur trioxide                              16

7664939     Sulfuric acid                                16

14807966    Talc (containing asbestos fibers)            250

540885      Tertiary Butyl Acetate                       121

7550450     Titanium tetrachloride                       2

108883      Toluene                                      250

8001352     Toxaphene (Camphechlor)                      0.49

299752      Treosulphan                                  250




                                                                        134
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                                             Reporting
                                                             Threshold
CAS                                                          (pounds per year)
Number      Pollutant Name                                   1


817094      Trichlormethine                                  250

79016       Trichloroethylene (TCE)                          32

121448      Triethylamine                                    110

1582098     Trifluralin                                      250

52244       Tris(aziridinyl)-phosphine sulfide (Thio-tepa)   250

62450060    trp-p-1                                          250

62450071    trp-p-2                                          250

            Ultrafine particles

108054      Vinyl acetate                                    250

593602      Vinyl bromide                                    5

75014       Vinyl chloride                                   18

1330207     Xylene (and mixed isomers)                       250

78933       Methyl Ethyl Ketone                              250

110576      Trans 1,4-dichlorobutene                         3.80E-02




                                                                            135
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

PART B         CONCERNING CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
I.      Applicability
I.A.    The provisions of this Part B shall apply statewide. All sources that did not
        commence construction or operation prior to February 1, 1972, are required to
        have a construction permit except as specified in Section II.

II.     General Requirements for Construction Permits
II.A.   General Considerations

        II.A.1. Except where specifically authorized by the terms of this Regulation
               Number 3, no person shall construct, modify, or operate any stationary
               source or commence the conduct of any such activity without first
               obtaining or having a valid construction permit from the Division.

        II.A.2. Any permit that has been issued pursuant to a prior regulation of the
               Commission, with respect to a project or the operation thereof, shall
               continue in full force and effect for the purpose for that it was originally
               issued, unless this current regulation no longer requires such permit, in
               that case the permit can be rescinded upon request of the owner or
               operator of the permitted source.

        II.A.3. Any orders or decisions of the Division shall be final upon issuance,
               according to Section III.F.3. of this Part B.

        II.A.4. Construction permits for criteria pollutants, GHG and hazardous air
               pollutants shall be issued based on the production/process rate requested
               in the Air Pollutant Emission Notice submitted with the permit application
               or as requested in the application. The emission rate associated with the
               requested production/process rate shall be a permit condition. For permits
               to limit the potential to emit criteria, pollutants, GHG or hazardous air
               pollutants the Division may modify the production/process rate, hours of
               operation or other requested permit conditions in order to create state-only
               or federally and practically enforceable permit conditions; provided,
               however, that the applicant may decline to accept such modifications and



                                                                                              136
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

               elect instead to forego limits on its potential to emit or pursues any right of
               appeal or other available alternative. For details regarding permits to limit
               the potential to emit hazardous air pollutants see Regulation Number 8,
               Part E, Section IV.

        II.A.5. Construction permits are required for hazardous air pollutants if:

               II.A.5.a.     The source is subject to Colorado Maximum Achievable
                      Control Technology or Generally Available Control Technology.

        II.A.6. Owners or operators of sources that have valid operating permits in
               accordance with Part C of this regulation may construct or modify such
               source without obtaining a construction permit prior to construction or
               modification, provided the construction or modification qualifies for a minor
               permit modification or for operational flexibility, and the applicable
               provisions as set forth in Sections X., XI., or XII. of Part C are met. In
               addition, all applicable requirements that are related to construction permit
               approval and that are set forth in Sections III.D.1.a. through III.D.1.g. of
               this Part B remain in effect.

        II.A.7. A source that is voluntarily applying for a permit to create state-only or
               federally enforceable permit conditions, as appropriate, to limit the
               potential to emit criteria, pollutants, GHG or hazardous air pollutants may
               request to obtain such limits in a construction permit.

II.B.   Transfer or Assignment of Ownership

If transfer or assignment of ownership or operation of an air pollution emission source
permitted pursuant to this Part B is completed, the new owner or operator shall apply to
the Division on Division supplied administrative permit amendment forms for reissuance
of the existing permit within 30 days of completing acquisition of the source. The
responsibility for compliance with the permit shall transfer to the new owner or operator
upon submittal of completed forms. Section III. of Part A of this regulation governs the
administrative permit amendment procedures required for transfer or assignment of
ownership.



                                                                                             137
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In accordance with the provisions of this section, the permit shall be reissued upon
completion of the transfer or assignment if the applicant certifies that no change is
contemplated that might constitute a new or modified air pollution source. In no event
shall the new owner or operator of a source that was subject to the requirements of
these regulations prior to the transfer or assignment be relieved of the obligation to
comply with such requirements by reason of a transfer. Such transfers are subject to all
applicable permit processing and inspection fees.

If a company is changing its name only, the owner or operator shall apply to the
Division, on Division supplied administrative permit amendment forms, for reissuance of
the existing permit. Section III. of Part A, governs the administrative permit amendment
procedures required for identifying a change in name. If all other procedures and
information as stated in the last submitted Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) remains
unchanged, only one Air Pollutant Emission Notice need be submitted for each
stationary source, indicating the name change.

No administrative permit amendment for transfer or assignment of ownership of a
source shall be complete until a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer
of permit, responsibility, coverage and liability between the current and new permittee is
received by the Division.

II.C.   Portable Sources

A permitted portable source (e.g., asphalt plants, crushers, etc.) shall have its permit
number permanently and prominently displayed on each major component of equipment
that is a part of that portable source.

II.D.   Exemption from Construction Permit Requirements

Permit exemptions taken under this section do not affect the applicability of any State or
Federal regulations that are otherwise applicable to the source. An applicant may not
omit any information regarding APEN or permit exempt emission units in any application
if such information is needed to determine the applicability of Title V (Part C of this
Regulation Number 3), Prevention of Significant Deterioration (Section VI. of Part D of




                                                                                           138
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

this Regulation Number 3), or Nonattainment New Source Review (Section V. of Part D
of this Regulation Number 3).

      II.D.1. The following sources are exempt because by themselves, or cumulatively
             as a category, they are deemed to have a negligible impact on air quality:

             II.D.1.a.       Those sources exempted from the filing of Air Pollutant
                     Emission Notices in Section II.D. of Part A, of this regulation.

             II.D.1.b.       Containers, reservoirs, or tanks used exclusively for dipping
                     operations for coating objects with oils, waxes, greases, or natural
                     or synthetic resins containing no organic solvents.

             II.D.1.c.       Stationary Internal Combustion Engines that:

                     II.D.1.c.(i)     Are power portable drilling rigs; or

                     II.D.1.c.(ii)    Are emergency power generators that operate no
                             more than two hundred and fifty hours per year; or

                     II.D.1.c.(iii)   Have uncontrolled actual emissions less than five
                             tons per year or manufacturer’s site-rated horsepower of
                             less than fifty.

             II.D.1.d.       The collection, transmission, liquid treatment, and solids
                     treatment processes at domestic wastewater treatment works, or
                     treatment facilities that treat only domestic type wastewater, except
                     for combustion processes.

             II.D.1.e.       Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment, other than
                     smokehouse generators, that uses gaseous fuel, and that has a
                     design rate less than or equal to ten million British thermal units per
                     hour.

             II.D.1.f.       Gasoline stations located in ozone attainment areas, except
                     for stations located in the Denver 1-hour ozone
                     attainment/maintenance area.




                                                                                          139
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.D.1.g.       Surface mining activities that mine seventy thousand tons or
                    fewer of product material per year. A fugitive dust control plan is
                    required for such sources. Crushers, screens and other processing
                    equipment activities are not included in this exemption.

            II.D.1.h.       Composting piles, however, all odor requirements of
                    Regulation Number 2 must be met.

            II.D.1.i.       Commercial and product quality control laboratory
                    equipment.

            II.D.1.j.       Fires and equipment used for noncommercial cooking of
                    food for human consumption and for cooking of food for human
                    consumption at commercial food service establishments.

            II.D.1.k.       Petroleum industry flares, not associated with refineries,
                    combusting natural gas containing no hydrogen sulfide except in
                    trace (less than five hundred parts per million weight) amounts,
                    approved by the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation commission
                    and having uncontrolled emissions of any pollutant of less than five
                    tons per year.

            II.D.1.l.       Crude oil truck loading equipment at exploration and
                    production sites where the loading rate does not exceed 10,000
                    gallons of crude oil per day averaged on an annual basis.
                    Condensate truck loading equipment at exploration and production
                    sites that splash fill less than 6750 barrels of condensate per year
                    or that submerge fill less than 16308 barrels of condensate per
                    year.

            II.D.1.m.Exemption Repealed (January 30, 2020).

            II.D.1.n.       Exemption Repealed.

     II.D.2. Facilities located in a nonattainment area for any criteria pollutant for
            which the area is nonattainment; with total facility uncontrolled actual




                                                                                          140
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            emissions (potential emissions at actual operating hours) that are less
            than the following amounts:

            II.D.2.a.     Two tons per year volatile organic compounds.

            II.D.2.b.     One ton per year PM10.

            II.D.2.c.     One ton per year PM2.5.

            II.D.2.d.     Five tons per year total suspended particulate.

            II.D.2.e.     Five tons per year carbon monoxide.

            II.D.2.f.     Five tons per year sulfur dioxide.

            II.D.2.g.     Five tons per year nitrogen oxides.

            II.D.2.h.     Two hundred pounds per year lead.

     For purposes of calculating total facility uncontrolled actual emissions, only those
     individual (or grouped) emission points requiring Air Pollutant Emission Notices
     are to be considered.

     II.D.3. Facilities located in attainment or attainment/maintenance areas for all
            criteria pollutants with total facility uncontrolled actual emissions less
            (potential emissions at actual operating hours) than the following amounts:

            II.D.3.a.     Five tons per year volatile organic compounds.

            II.D.3.b.     Five tons per year PM10.

            II.D.3.c.     Five tons per year PM2.5.

            II.D.3.d.     Ten tons per year total suspended particulate.

            II.D.3.e.     Ten tons per year carbon monoxide.

            II.D.3.f.     Ten tons per year sulfur dioxide.

            II.D.3.g.     Ten tons per year nitrogen oxides.

            II.D.3.h.     Two hundred pounds per year lead.




                                                                                         141
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       For purposes of calculating total facility uncontrolled actual emissions, only those
       individual (or grouped) emission points requiring Air Pollutant Emission Notices
       are to be considered.

       II.D.4. Facilities that emit any other criteria pollutant that is not listed in Sections
              II.D.2. and II.D.3., (fluorides, sulfuric acid mist, hydrogen sulfide, total
              reduced sulfur, reduced sulfur compounds, and municipal waste
              combustor emissions), with total facility uncontrolled actual emissions of
              such pollutants that are less than two tons per year.

       II.D.5. When a facility that was previously exempt from permit requirements
              exceeds one of the permit de minimis levels stated in Sections II.D.2.
              through II.D.4., due to the addition of new emission points, the Division will
              issue either a facility-wide permit for all non-grandfathered emission units
              above Air Pollutant Emission Notice de minimis levels, or individual
              emission permits for those emission units.

       II.D.6. All incinerators require a permit as stated in Regulation Number1, Section
              III.B.1.

       II.D.7. Exemption Repealed (January 30, 2020).

       II.D.8. Any person may request the Division to add source categories to the
              permit exemption list, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
              Section II.D.4. of Part A of this regulation.

       II.D.9. Sources with a valid operating permit are not required to obtain a
              construction permit prior to commencing construction or modification, as
              set forth in Section II.A.6. of this Part B.

       II.D.10.          Sources reporting greenhouse gases in accordance with Part A,
              Section II.A.2., are not required to obtain a construction permit solely for
              greenhouse gas.

III.   Construction Permit Review Procedures
III.A. Option for Pre Application Meeting




                                                                                             142
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Prior to submitting an application for a permit, an applicant may request and, if so
requested, the Division shall grant, a pre-application meeting with the applicant. At such
meeting, the Division shall advise the applicant of the applicable permit requirements,
including the information, plans, specifications and the data required to be furnished
with the permit application.

III.B. Application for a Construction Permit

       III.B.1. An application for a Construction Permit shall be prepared on forms
              currently supplied by the Division.

       III.B.2. Applications for Construction Permits, and modifications to Construction
              Permits, must include an Air Pollutant Emission Notice or alternate forms
              required by the Division.

       III.B.3. Applications shall be signed by a person legally authorized to act on
              behalf of the applicant. The applicant shall furnish all information and data
              required by the Division to evaluate the permit application and to make its
              preliminary analysis in accordance with Section III.B.7. of this part.

       III.B.4. (State Only) In addition to any requirements under Section III.B.7. of this
              Part B, or Section III.C.12.d. of Part C of this Regulation Number 3, for
              applications submitted on or after July 15, 2023, the Division will require
              dispersion modeling for the project being permitted by the Affected
              Construction Source in a Cumulatively Impacted Community as of the
              date the permit application is received by the Division. Dispersion
              modeling will only be required for the Affected Pollutants for which a
              source is an Affected Construction Source, and will not be required for
              emissions of total volatile organic compounds. Such sources shall indicate
              if they are located in a Cumulatively Impacted Community as part of their
              permit application.

              III.B.4.a.       (State Only) Modeling required under this section must
                      follow established state protocols and procedures outlined in
                      Section VIII.A. of Part A of this Regulation Number 3.



                                                                                          143
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            III.B.4.b.      (State Only) If a permit applicant demonstrates to the
                    Division that the source is already conducting acceptable source-
                    specific monitoring for an Affected Pollutant, then the source will not
                    be required to conduct enhanced modeling pursuant to this Section
                    III.B.4. for that Affected Pollutant.

     III.B.5. (State Only) Beginning July 15, 2023, all permit applications must include
            an environmental justice summary for each census block group in which
            the source is located as part of the permit application. Beginning July 15,
            2024, all permit applications must include a Division-verified
            environmental justice summary for each census block group in which the
            source is located as part of the permit application. An environmental
            justice summary is considered Division-verified when the source receives
            a notification from the Division verifying that it is complete and accurate.
            The summary must include, but is not limited to:

            III.B.5.a.      A description of the proposed permit application, including,
                    but not limited to, a description of the project and the identification
                    of which Affected Pollutants will be emitted from the source.

            III.B.5.b.      An aerial or satellite mapped image of the source’s location
                    that shows a 1-mile radius around the source’s location. The map
                    must show the source’s location in relation to any
                    Disproportionately Impacted Communities and any Occupied Areas
                    not within Owner/Operator control within 1-mile of the Affected
                    Construction Source.

            III.B.5.c.      The Colorado EnviroScreen score and environmental,
                    health, and sociodemographic data as identified in the
                    Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of Colorado
                    EnviroScreen incorporated into this regulation for the census block
                    group(s) in which the source is located.

                    III.B.5.c.(i)   Beginning January 14, 2026, for the census block
                            group(s) in which the source is located, the Colorado


                                                                                         144
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          EnviroScreen score and environmental, health, and
                          sociodemographic data as identified in the
                          Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November
                          2024) after selecting the criteria for “Mobile home
                          communities”, “low-income population above 40%”, “People
                          of color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened
                          population above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population
                          above 20%”, and “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score
                          above 80”.

           III.B.5.d.     For any new sources located in Disproportionately Impacted
                   Communities, or for any modifications to existing sources located in
                   Disproportionately Impacted Communities that will increase overall
                   facility emissions of any individual Affected Pollutant the summary
                   required by this section should include considerations such as, but
                   not limited to, a description and documentation of any planned or
                   completed engagement with members of the Disproportionately
                   Impacted Community who reside within 1-mile of the applicable
                   source or frequent an Occupied Area within 1-mile of the applicable
                   source unless the Occupied Area is under the control of the
                   applicable source’s owner/operator, a description and
                   documentation of any emission reduction and control strategies
                   implemented or any changes made to the source equipment or
                   operations based on engagement with and assessment of the
                   Disproportionately Impacted Community and indicator data from the
                   Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November 2024),
                   and any other considerations intended to facilitate the fair treatment
                   and meaningful involvement of Disproportionately Impacted
                   Community members.

           III.B.5.e.     Sources submitting construction permit applications for any
                   of the following reasons are exempt from the requirement to include
                   a verified environmental justice summary with the application:


                                                                                     145
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 III.B.5.e.(i)    The application is only for administrative permit
                         amendments, as defined in Section I.B.1.a. of Part A of this
                         Regulation Number 3.

                 III.B.5.e.(ii)   The application requests an overall decrease or no
                         change in the annual emissions limits of each Affected
                         Pollutant across the facility.




                                                                                      146
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   III.B.5.e.(iii) The application is for a modification at an existing
                          source and a verified environmental justice summary has
                          already been submitted with a permit application for the
                          source using the most current version of the
                          Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November
                          2024). This exemption does not apply if the
                          Disproportionately Impacted Community Map has been
                          updated since the last environmental justice summary was
                          submitted for the source. Permit applicants relying on this
                          exemption must state in their permit application that they
                          have previously submitted an applicable summary and must
                          identify the date the summary was verified by the Division.

           III.B.5.f.     An environmental justice summary will not be deemed to be
                   complete unless it includes all information required in Sections
                   III.B.5.a. through III.B.5.d. Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of an
                   environmental justice summary, the Division will give notice to the
                   applicant that the summary has been verified, or if not, to what
                   respect the summary is incomplete or inaccurate. The timeframe for
                   the Division’s review may be extended by 14 days if: (i) the Division
                   receives an unexpected number of environmental justice
                   summaries that prevent review; or (ii) needed to request and
                   receive additional information from the applicant. If the Division fails
                   to timely notify an applicant that a summary is incomplete, the
                   summary may be submitted with a permit application without
                   Division verification and the Division will process the permit
                   application using the unverified summary. The unverified summary
                   may be submitted with a permit application, but will not be
                   considered for the exemptions in Part B, Section III.B.5.e.(iii) and
                   Part C, Section III.C.14.a.(iii) for any future permit applications,
                   unless subsequently verified by the Division. Permit applicants
                   submitting an unverified summary must state in their permit


                                                                                          147
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    application that the Division failed to give notice that the summary
                    was verified or not.

     III.B.6. An application for a Construction Permit will not be deemed to be
            complete until all information and data required to evaluate the application
            have been submitted to the Division. Within sixty calendar days after the
            receipt of an application or any supplemental information timely requested
            by the Division, the Division will give notice to the applicant if and in what
            respect the application is incomplete. If the Division fails to notify an
            applicant that the application is incomplete within sixty calendar days of
            receipt of the original application or receipt of the requested supplemental
            information, the application shall be deemed to have been complete as of
            the day of receipt by the Division of the application or the last submitted
            supplemental information, whichever is later.

     III.B.7. Except for applications for sources subject to the requirements of Section
            VI. of Part D of this regulation (Prevention of Significant Deterioration), the
            Division shall prepare its preliminary analysis within sixty calendar days
            after receipt of a complete permit application. The preliminary analysis
            allows the Division to determine whether the new source will, at date of
            commencement of operation, comply with:

            III.B.7.a.     All applicable emission control regulations,

            III.B.7.b.     Applicable regulations for the control of hazardous
                    pollutants,

            III.B.7.c.     Requirements of the nonattainment and attainment
                    programs (Sections V. and VI. of Part D), and

            III.B.7.d.     Any applicable ambient air quality standards and all
                    applicable regulations.

            The preliminary analysis shall indicate what impact, if any, the new source
            will have (as of the projected date of commencement of operation) on all
            areas (attainment, attainment/maintenance, nonattainment,



                                                                                        148
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             unclassifiable), within the probable area of influence of the proposed
             source. If so requested on the permit application form, a copy of this
             preliminary analysis shall be forwarded to the applicant postmarked no
             later than fifteen calendar days after the completion of the preliminary
             analysis.

             When the preliminary analysis includes modeling, the model used shall be
             an appropriate one given the topography, meteorology and other
             characteristics of the region that the source will impact. Use of any non-
             guideline model requires U.S. EPA approval under Section VIII.A. of Part A
             of this regulation.

III.C. Public Comment Requirements

      III.C.1. The following sources, unless exempted in Section III.C.2., are subject to
             public comment:

             III.C.1.a.      Sources with projected controlled annual emissions of any
                     pollutant for which an ambient air quality standard has been
                     designated, where such emissions will be greater than twenty five
                     tons per year if the source is located in a nonattainment area, fifty
                     tons per year if the source is located in an attainment or
                     attainment/maintenance area, or two hundred pounds per year of
                     lead (for any area of the state).

             III.C.1.b.      Sources for which preliminary analysis indicates a possible
                     violation of Commission Regulation Number 2 (odor emissions).

             III.C.1.c.      For hazardous air pollutants if:

                     III.C.1.c.(i)    The source is subject to Federal National Emission
                             Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants,

                     III.C.1.c.(ii)   The source is subject to Federal or Colorado
                             Maximum Achievable Control Technology or Generally
                             Available Control Technology standards, or




                                                                                        149
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.C.1.c.(iii) The source is voluntarily applying for permit
                           conditions to limit the source's potential to emit hazardous air
                           pollutants.

            III.C.1.d.     Sources subject to Sections V. or VI. of Part D of this
                    regulation that are attempting to obtain a federally enforceable limit
                    on the potential to emit of the source in order to avoid other
                    requirements.

            III.C.1.e.     Sources submitting an application for a BART determination
                    or BART alternative pursuant to Regulation Number 23.

     III.C.2. The following sources are generally not required to be subject to public
            comment, unless the Division determines that public comment is
            warranted pursuant to Section III.C.3.:

            III.C.2.a.     Sources of six months’ duration or less, except that public
                    comment shall be required for all major sources of hazardous
                    pollutants without regard to the duration of the operation of such
                    source unless specifically exempted.

            III.C.2.b.     Demolition projects, even if asbestos materials are present,
                    provided that all the requirements of Regulation Number 8 are
                    followed for any and all materials suspected of containing asbestos.

            III.C.2.c.     Construction or modification of sources in accordance with
                    the minor modification and operational flexibility provisions of
                    Sections X., XI., and XII. of Part C of this regulation are subject to
                    the public participation requirements of Part C.

     III.C.3. Sources for which a permit is required, but for which public comment is not
            required by Sections III.C.1., III.C.2.a., or III.C.2.b., are exempt from public
            comment requirements unless the Division determines that public
            comment is warranted. In making such determinations, the Division shall
            take into consideration the duration of the operation, its location, the




                                                                                         150
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           nature and projected amount of emissions, anticipated public concern, and
           other relevant factors.

     III.C.4. When public comment is required by Section III.C.1., or when the Division
           determines, pursuant to Section III.C.3., that an application warrants
           public comment, the Division shall, within fifteen calendar days after the
           preparation of the preliminary analysis, cause public notice of the
           application to be published in a newspaper of general distribution in the
           area in which the proposed project or activity is or will be located, or by
           such other means necessary to assure notice to the affected public, that
           may include posting of such notice on the publicly accessible portion of
           the Division’s web site. The Division will provide a copy of the application,
           the preliminary analysis, and the draft permit, or information about how to
           access digital versions of these documents on a publicly accessible
           website, to the county clerk for each county in which the source is, or will
           be located. Documents provided directly to the county clerk may be in
           digital or hard copy format. The Division will send written or electronic
           notice to persons requesting notice of permit applications that are subject
           to public notice requirements. Electronic notice may include email
           notification to persons on an email list developed and maintained by the
           Division. For sources applying for a permit to limit the potential to emit
           criteria pollutants or federal hazardous air pollutants, the Division will send
           a copy of the public notice and the draft permit to the U.S. EPA
           Administrator for comment. The newspaper notice or other such means of
           notice shall contain all of the following information in Sections III.C.4.a.
           through III.C.4.e.

           III.C.4.a.    The location and nature of the proposed project or activity for
                  which a construction permit application has been filed.

           III.C.4.b.    The locations where the application and preliminary analysis
                  are available for public inspection.




                                                                                          151
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             III.C.4.c.     That comments concerning the ability of the proposed
                     project or activity to comply with the applicable standards and
                     regulations of the Commission are solicited from any interested
                     person.

             III.C.4.d.     That the Division will receive and consider public comments
                     for thirty calendar days after such publication.

             III.C.4.e.     The Division's preliminary determination of approval,
                     conditional approval, or disapproval of the application.

III.D. Construction Permit Review Requirements

      III.D.1. Requirements applicable to all construction permit applications (except
             that processing timeframes of combined construction/operating
             applications shall be as set forth in Part C, Section IV., of this Regulation
             Number 3). Within thirty calendar days following the completion of the
             Division's preliminary analysis for applications not subject to the public
             comment, within thirty calendar days following the period for public
             comment for applications subject to public comment, or if a public
             comment hearing is held for sources subject to the provisions of Part D,
             Sections V. and VI., within thirty calendar days following such hearing, the
             Division shall grant the permit if it finds that:

             III.D.1.a.     The proposed source or activity will meet all applicable
                     emission control regulations and regulations for the control of
                     hazardous air pollutants;

             III.D.1.b.     As applicable, the proposed source or activity will meet the
                     requirements of the attainment program as outlined in Section V. of
                     Part D of this regulation, if any;

             III.D.1.c.     The proposed source or activity will not cause an
                     exceedance of any National Ambient Air Quality Standards;

             III.D.1.d.     The source or activity will meet any applicable ambient air
                     quality standards and all applicable regulations;


                                                                                          152
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           III.D.1.e.     As applicable, the proposed source or modification will meet
                   the requirements of the prevention of significant deterioration
                   program of Section VI. of Part D of this regulation.

           [Provided however, that the Division shall not deny a permit for failure of
           the proposed source to meet any applicable requirement of the state
           implementation plan where (1) there is pending an application for a
           revision to the state implementation plan pursuant to Colorado Revised
           Statute, Section 25-7-305 (Alternative Emission Reduction) that, if
           adopted, would require the Division to grant the permit and (2) the
           applicant waives the time constraints on the Division to act on its
           application until the Commission has issued its final decision on the
           request for a state implementation plan revision and the U.S. EPA has
           acted on the proposed revision to the state implementation plan. In such
           circumstances, the Division shall delay its decision on the permit
           application until after final action on the request for revision of the state
           implementation plan (including action by the U.S. EPA)];

           III.D.1.f.     The fees required in Section VI. of Part A of this regulation
                   have been paid;

           III.D.1.g.     Permit approval shall not relieve any owner or operator of
                   the responsibility to comply fully with applicable provisions of the
                   state implementation plan and any other requirements under local,
                   state, or federal law.

     III.D.2. RACT Requirements for new or modified Minor Sources (including new or
           modified minor emissions units at major stationary sources) of volatile
           organic compounds, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, and
           PM10 in nonattainment and attainment/maintenance areas, and (State
           Only), RACT requirements for new or modified Minor Sources (including
           new or modified minor emissions units at major stationary sources) of
           volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and direct PM2.5 in
           Cumulatively Impacted Communities.


                                                                                           153
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           III.D.2.a.      Minor sources in designated nonattainment or
                   attainment/maintenance areas that are otherwise not exempt
                   pursuant to Section II.D. of this Part, shall apply Reasonably
                   Available Control Technology for the pollutants for which the area is
                   nonattainment or attainment/maintenance.

           III.D.2.b.      In the Denver Metropolitan PM10 attainment/maintenance
                   area, for any new minor source with a potential to emit forty tons
                   per year or more of nitrogen oxides or sulfur dioxide, or a
                   modification of an existing minor source with a net emissions
                   increase of forty tons per year or more of nitrogen oxides or sulfur
                   dioxide, the source will install Reasonably Available Control
                   Technology.

           III.D.2.c.      (State Only) New sources of Affected Pollutants located in
                   Cumulatively Impacted Communities as of the date the permit
                   application is received by the Division, with construction permit
                   applications submitted on or after January 1, 2024 must apply
                   Reasonably Available Control Technology to emission units with
                   requested permitted emissions of volatile organic compounds,
                   nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 in excess of the construction
                   permit thresholds in Part B, Sections II.D.2. or II.D.3. The owner or
                   operator of the proposed source shall apply RACT only for the
                   Affected Pollutant exceeding the construction permit threshold at
                   the new emissions unit.

                   III.D.2.c.(i)   For the purposes of this Section III.D.2.c., any source
                           subject to RACT requirements in Regulation Number 7 (as
                           reorganized) or the Colorado State Implementation Plan
                           (SIP) shall be presumed to comply with this III.D.2.c. for any
                           pollutants covered by those existing RACT requirements.

           III.D.2.d.      (State Only) Modifications to existing sources of Affected
                   Pollutants located in Cumulatively Impacted Communities as of the


                                                                                        154
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                       date the permit application is received by the Division, with
                       construction permit applications submitted on or after January 1,
                       2024 must apply Reasonably Available Control Technology to the
                       project’s emission units that result in an overall increase in the
                       modified source’s requested permitted emissions of volatile organic
                       compounds, nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 in an amount
                       exceeding the construction permit thresholds in Part B, Sections
                       II.D.2. or II.D.3. The owner or operator of the proposed source shall
                       apply RACT only for the Affected Pollutant exceeding the
                       construction permit threshold at the modified emissions unit.

                       III.D.2.d.(i)   For the purposes of this Section III.D.2.d., any source
                               subject to RACT requirements in Regulation Number 7 (as
                               reorganized) or the Colorado State Implementation Plan
                               (SIP) shall be presumed to comply with this III.D.2.d. for any
                               pollutants covered by those existing RACT requirements.

III.E. Permit Terms and Conditions

         The Division shall include such terms and conditions in any permit as it deems
         necessary for the proposed project or activity to qualify for the permit.

III.F.   Denial or Revocation of the Construction Permit

         III.F.1. If the Division determines that a source cannot comply with the provisions
                of Part B, Section III.D., of this regulation, the Division shall issue its
                written denial of the permit application stating the reasons for such denial.
                Any Division denial of a permit shall become final upon mailing of the
                denial notice to the applicant by certified mail. The applicant may appeal
                the Division's final denial of a permit as provided in Section III.F.3.

         III.F.2. Any applicant for a construction permit shall advise the Division in writing
                of any refusal to accept any permit condition imposed by the Division
                within twenty calendar days after receipt of the permit. Such refusal shall
                be deemed a denial of the permit application.



                                                                                              155
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.F.3. If the Division denies a permit, imposes conditions upon a permit that are
            contested by the applicant, revokes a permit, or requires a permit from a
            source that may qualify for an exemption, the applicant or owner or
            operator of a source may request a hearing before the Commission for
            review of the Division’s action. The request for a hearing must be filed with
            the Commission within thirty days after the issuance of the permit, denial
            or revocation. The hearing shall be heard in accordance with the
            provisions of Section VI. of the Commission’s Procedural Rules, Colorado
            Revised Statute Sections 25-7-114.5(8), and 25-7-119, (Colorado Air
            Pollution Prevention and Control Act) and Section 24-4-105, (State
            Administrative Procedure Act).

     III.F.4. Initial Approval Expiration

            III.F.4.a.     An initially approved permit shall expire if the owner or
                    operator of the source for which the permit was issued: (i) does not
                    commence construction or operation of the source within eighteen
                    months after either the date of issuance of the permit or the date on
                    which such construction or activity was scheduled to commence as
                    set forth in the permit, whichever is later; (ii) discontinues
                    construction for a period of eighteen months or more; or (iii) does
                    not complete construction within a reasonable time of the estimated
                    completion date.

            III.F.4.b.     Upon a showing of good cause by the permittee, the Division
                    may grant extensions of the permit not to exceed eighteen months
                    per extension. Construction or operation shall commence or be
                    resumed within a reasonable period of time from the granting of the
                    extension. In determining what constitutes good cause or a
                    reasonable period of time, the Division shall consider the degree of
                    construction already completed, the amount invested or legally
                    committed to the project, whether an extension would prevent (e.g.,
                    through reservation of a Prevention Significant Deterioration



                                                                                       156
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    increment) economic development in the affected area, general
                    economic conditions, the health of the community as it affects the
                    ability of the permittee to proceed, and other relevant factors. The
                    Division shall notify the Commission of any requested extensions
                    and the reason given for each request.

III.G. Final Permit Approval

      III.G.1.      Unless prior and mutually acceptable arrangements have been
             made, the applicant shall give notice to the Division within fifteen calendar
             days after the date on which commencement of operation takes place.

      III.G.2.      Within 180 calendar days after commencement of operation, the
             source shall demonstrate to the Division compliance with the terms and
             conditions of the initial approval construction permit. The Division may
             inspect the source to determine whether or not the operating terms and
             conditions of the initial approval construction permit have been satisfied.
             At the end of 180 days, the Division must revoke the construction permit;
             or, continue the construction permit if applicable; or, notify the owner or
             operator that the source has demonstrated compliance with the
             construction permit.

      III.G.3.      Before final approval of the permit is granted, the Division may
             require the applicant to conduct and pay for performance tests in
             accordance with methods approved by the Division. A test protocol shall
             be submitted to the Division for review and approval at least thirty days
             prior to testing. The Division may monitor such tests and may, at its
             expense, conduct its own performance tests.

      III.G.4.      For sources that submit an application for an operating permit
             pursuant to Part C of this Regulation Number 3, including any application
             for a permit modification or permit renewal, prior to issuance of a final
             approval construction permit, upon demonstration by the source of
             compliance with all terms and conditions of the construction permit or a
             satisfactory final approval inspection, as required pursuant to this Section


                                                                                           157
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                III.G., the Division may elect to either issue a final approval construction
                permit or allow the initial approval construction permit to continue in full
                force and effect. The Division shall provide written notice to the permittee
                of its election.

         III.G.5.      If the Division determines that the terms and conditions of the
                permit have been satisfied, the Division shall issue in writing its final
                permit approval to the applicant, or shall incorporate the terms and
                conditions into an operating permit issued in accordance with Part C of
                this regulation. Otherwise, the Division shall revoke the permit.

         III.G.6.      Final approval may be issued at the same time as initial approval
                for temporary sources of duration of one month or less.

         III.G.7.      Prior to issuance of final approval, the applicant shall furnish:

                III.G.7.a.     An operating and maintenance plan for all control equipment
                       and control practices; and

                III.G.7.b.     A proposed record keeping format for demonstrating
                       compliance on an ongoing basis.

                III.G.7.c.     (State Only) If required, a Division-approved source-specific
                       monitoring plan pursuant to III.J.2. of this Part B.

III.H. Permit Cancellation

Whenever an owner or operator wishes to cancel a permit, the owner or operator shall
notify the Division, using forms provided by the Division.

III.I.   General Construction Permits

         III.I.1. The Division may issue a general construction permit covering numerous
                similar sources to a source that would otherwise be required to obtain a
                construction permit pursuant to this Part B. Any general construction
                permit shall comply with all applicable requirements, including notice and
                opportunity for public participation where warranted for such sources. The




                                                                                            158
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            Division may issue a general construction permit in accordance with one
            or more of the following considerations:

            III.I.1.a.        The control equipment utilized by the sources;

            III.I.1.b.        The design characteristics of the sources;

            III.I.1.c.        The operational variability of the sources;

            III.I.1.d.        The location of the sources.

     III.I.2. A source shall not perform any of the following without first obtaining a
            valid general construction permit from the Division pursuant to this
            provision, or a valid construction permit as otherwise required pursuant to
            Section III. of this Part B:

            III.I.2.a.        Construct, operate, or modify any building, facility, structure,
                     or installation;

            III.I.2.b.        Install any machine, equipment, or other device;

            III.I.2.c.        Commence the conduct of any such activity;

            III.I.2.d.        Commence performance of any combinations thereof; or

            III.I.2.e.        Commence operations of any of the same that will or do
                     constitute a new stationary source.

     III.I.3. Administration

            III.I.3.a.        General construction permits may be issued, modified,
                     revoked and reissued, or terminated in accordance with the
                     provisions of this regulation.

            III.I.3.b.        Sources shall submit applications to be covered under the
                     general construction permit on forms provided by the Division.

            III.I.3.c.        Individual Permit Requirements

                     III.I.3.c.(i)   The Division may require any source authorized by a
                              general construction permit to apply for and obtain an




                                                                                           159
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          individual permit. Cases where an individual permit may be
                          required include, but are not limited to, the following:

                          III.I.3.c.(i)(A) A change has occurred in the availability of
                                   control technology or practices for the control or
                                   abatement of air pollutants applicable to the source;
                                   or

                          III.I.3.c.(i)(B) Circumstances have changed since the time of
                                   the request to be covered so that the source is no
                                   longer appropriately controlled under the general
                                   construction permit.

                 III.I.3.c.(ii)    Any source authorized by a general construction
                          permit may request to be excluded from the coverage of the
                          general construction permit by applying for an individual
                          permit, as provided for under Parts A and B.

                 III.I.3.c.(iii)   When the Division issues an individual permit to a
                          source otherwise subject to a general construction permit,
                          the applicability of the general construction permit to the
                          individual permittee is automatically terminated on the
                          effective date of the individual permit.

                 III.I.3.c.(iv)    A source excluded from a general construction permit
                          solely because it already has an individual permit may
                          request that the individual permit be revoked, and that it be
                          covered by the general construction permit. Upon revocation
                          of the individual permit, the general construction permit shall
                          apply to the source.

                 III.I.3.c.(v)     In determining whether an individual permit is
                          required, the Division may consider the compliance history
                          and current compliance status of the source.




                                                                                          160
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

         III.I.4. The Division shall review the application and certify or deny the request
                based on criteria specified in the general construction permit established
                by the Division for that type of source.

         III.I.5. General construction permits shall include conditions necessary to ensure
                the sources will meet all applicable requirements.

         III.I.6. General construction permits issued by the Division may include the
                following requirements, as appropriate and as specified in each permit:

                III.I.6.a.     An operating and maintenance plan for all control equipment
                         and control practices;

                III.I.6.b.     A record keeping format for demonstrating compliance;

                III.I.6.c.     Monitoring methods to assure compliance; and

                III.I.6.d.     Alternative operating scenarios that include specific
                         monitoring, record keeping, and reporting methods that will assure
                         compliance with the permit conditions.

         III.I.7. All general construction permits shall undergo statewide public notice. If a
                source wants to be covered under a general construction permit, the
                source must apply within the time period specified in the public notice.

III.J.   (State Only) Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring Provisions

         III.J.1. (State Only) Applicability

         The provisions of Sections III.J.2., III.J.4., and III.J.5. shall apply to sources of
         Affected Pollutants located in Disproportionately Impacted Communities as of the
         date the permit application is received by the Division, that submit permit
         applications on or after July 15, 2024. The provisions of Section III.J.3 shall apply
         to sources of Affected Pollutants located in Disproportionately Impacted
         Communities as of the date the permit application is received by the Division,
         that submit permit applications on or after October 15, 2024.

         III.J.2. (State Only) Source-Specific Monitoring




                                                                                                 161
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       Table 1 – Cumulatively Impacted Community Monitoring Thresholds

       Affected Pollutant                   Maximum Annual Average Modeled
                                            Concentration

       Benzene                              ≥ 5 ppb

       Toluene                              ≥ 664 ppb

       Ethylbenzene                         ≥ 115 ppb

       Xylene                               ≥ 12 ppb

       PM2.5                                > 6 µg/m3

       Nitrogen Dioxide                     > 50 µg/m3

           III.J.2.a.       For each Affected Pollutant modeled pursuant to Section
                   III.B.4. of this Part B with a maximum annual average modeled
                   concentration at or above the Cumulatively Impacted Community
                   Monitoring Thresholds as defined in Table 1 of this Part, the owner
                   or operator of the Affected Construction Source must design and
                   implement a Division-approved source-specific monitoring plan if
                   the source is not already operating source-specific monitoring for
                   that Affected Pollutant. Source-specific monitoring will not be
                   required for total volatile organic compounds.

           III.J.2.b.       Source-specific monitoring plans required pursuant to
                   Section III.J.2. of this Part B or Section V.C.5.d.(i) of Part C of this
                   Regulation Number 3 must identify how the selected source-
                   specific monitoring is the best available monitoring technology that
                   is reasonably available and capable of detecting or monitoring
                   pollutants for which the Affected Construction Source triggered
                   source-specific monitoring. The source-specific monitoring plan
                   must also identify how the source-specific monitoring will inform
                   how the emissions of the Affected Pollutant being monitored will
                   impact the ambient air concentrations in the Disproportionately



                                                                                         162
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   Impacted Community in which the source is located. Source-
                   specific monitoring must be implemented utilizing one of the
                   following options:

                   III.J.2.b.(i)     Design and operation of a Division-approved
                            fenceline monitoring network;

                   III.J.2.b.(ii)    If accessible to the source’s owner/operator, the
                            installation and operation of air quality monitors within 0.25-
                            miles of the area of highest annual average modeled
                            concentration if the area of highest annual average modeled
                            concentration is within 0.25-miles of an Occupied Area or the
                            nearest logistically practical location. Monitor locations must
                            be approved by the Division;

                   III.J.2.b.(iii)   Operation of monitoring technologies in accordance
                            with a Division-approved detailed description of all existing
                            monitoring being performed and/or new monitoring being
                            adopted by the source for the relevant Affected Pollutant(s),
                            including the type and frequency of monitoring, and a
                            demonstration of how such monitoring informs impacts on
                            the ambient air concentrations in the Disproportionately
                            Impacted Community in which the source is located, which
                            may include dispersion modeling data or other relevant
                            information. Monitoring can include, but is not limited to,
                            operation of Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems
                            (CEMS), performance testing, utilization of Division-
                            approved parametric monitoring, source-specific sampling,
                            and real or near real-time process monitoring systems such
                            as supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA).

           III.J.2.c.       For sources subject to the monitoring requirements of
                   Section III.J.2., data collected through monitoring efforts must be
                   provided by the source to the Division via Application Program


                                                                                          163
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    Interface (API) or in accordance with Division-approved frequency
                    and methods.

           III.J.2.d.        The types of monitoring technology that can be used will be
                    dependent on the measurement objectives and may include
                    compound specific small sensors; real, or near real-time single, or
                    multi-compound analyzers; open-path monitoring systems; and
                    alternative methods of monitoring as approved by the Division.

           III.J.2.e.        If source-specific monitoring is required, owners or operators
                    must submit a source-specific air quality monitoring plan to the
                    Division at least sixty (60) days prior to beginning operations.

           III.J.2.f.        Sources subject to source-specific monitoring pursuant to
                    Section III.J.2. of this Part B may petition to discontinue source-
                    specific monitoring requirements after two years of monitoring. The
                    petition must include monitoring data which demonstrates that
                    concentrations are below Cumulatively Impacted Community
                    Monitoring Thresholds outlined in Table 1. The Division may
                    approve the petition to discontinue monitoring requirements if it
                    finds that sufficient information has been collected to assess a
                    source’s impact on the Disproportionately Impacted Community in
                    which the source is located. In determining approval of the petition
                    to discontinue monitoring, the Division may consider the source’s
                    compliance history, monitored concentration levels, burdens
                    experienced by communities, density of monitoring occurring in the
                    community, and planned startup, shutdown, and malfunction events
                    with high levels of emissions.

                    III.J.2.f.(i)   The Division's approval of a request to discontinue
                             source-specific monitoring does not relieve a source's
                             requirement to reevaluate the need for source-specific
                             monitoring of any future modifications.

     III.J.3. (State Only) Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring


                                                                                          164
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission



           Table 2 - Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring Fees

                                   Socioeconomically     Cumulatively
                                       Vulnerable          Impacted
                                       Community          Community

       Pollutant Above APEN        $50.00               $100.00               Per
       Reporting Thresholds                                                Affected
       and Less than Affected                                             Pollutant in
       Construction Source                                                 this Tier
       Threshold

       Pollutant Greater than      $200.00              $400.00               Per
       or Equal to Affected                                                Affected
       Construction Source                                                Pollutant in
       Threshold                                                           this Tier

       Pollutant Above APEN        $500.00              $750.00               Per
       Reporting Threshold at                                              Affected
       a Major Source of                                                  Pollutant in
       Affected Pollutant                                                  this Tier

           III.J.3.a.       This Section III.J.3. applies to new or modified sources of
                   Affected Pollutants located in Disproportionately Impacted
                   Communities that are not subject to source-specific monitoring
                   requirements per Section III.J.2 or Section III.J.4. of this Part B and
                   are issued a construction permit to increase the source’s requested
                   permitted emissions of volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides
                   and/or direct PM2.5 and sources that are issued a construction
                   permit based on an Air Pollutant Emission Notice reflecting
                   increased estimated annual actual emissions of benzene, toluene,
                   ethylbenzene, and/or xylenes in an amount exceeding non-criteria
                   reportable pollutant thresholds set forth in Part A., Section II.B.3.b.



                                                                                          165
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    of this Regulation Number 3. The estimated annual actual
                    emissions of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and/or xylenes
                    and/or the requested permitted emissions of volatile organic
                    compounds, nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 noted on the Air
                    Pollutant Emission Notice and information submitted pursuant to
                    Section III.B. of this Part B filed with the Division shall be used for
                    Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring Fee
                    assessment.

            III.J.3.b.     Sources subject to Section III.J.3.a. must participate in
                    Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring by paying the
                    invoiced processing fees to the Stationary Source Control Fund as
                    outlined in Table 2 – Disproportionately Impacted Community
                    Monitoring Fees. All invoiced processing fees assessed must be
                    received within thirty (30) days of the date of invoice issuance. All
                    processing fees collected under this section III.J.3. must be made
                    payable to the Colorado Department of Public Health and
                    Environment.

            III.J.3.c.     The Division shall use the fees collected through the
                    Stationary Source Control Fund to administer the
                    Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring program set
                    forth in Section III.J.3. of this Part B.

     III.J.4. (State Only) Requirements for well production facilities

            III.J.4.a.     Owners or operators of well production facilities subject to
                    the monitoring requirements of Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                    Section VI.C. which are located in Cumulatively Impacted
                    Communities must continue to monitor air quality at and/or around
                    the pre-production and early-production operations for the duration
                    of facility operations. Owners/operators of well production facilities
                    are not subject to the monitoring requirements set forth in Section
                    III.J.2. of this Part B unless the well production facility submits a


                                                                                            166
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   permit modification on or after July 15, 2024 that results in the
                   project’s requested permitted emissions of volatile organic
                   compounds, nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 or estimated
                   annual actual emissions of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and/or
                   xylenes exceeding the thresholds outlined in Section I.B.4. of Part A
                   of this Regulation Number 3.

                   III.J.4.a.(i)   Owners or operators may choose to satisfy the
                           monitoring requirements for well production facilities by
                           using alternative methods of monitoring utilizing technology
                           that may include compound specific small sensors; real, or
                           near real-time single, or multi-compound analyzers, open-
                           path monitoring systems; or other alternative methods of
                           monitoring as approved or required by the Division. Utilizing
                           an alternative method of monitoring does not relieve a
                           source of its obligations pursuant to Regulation Number 7,
                           Part B, Section VI.C.

           III.J.4.b.      Sources subject to well production monitoring pursuant to
                   Section III.J.4. of this Part B may petition to discontinue well
                   production monitoring after two years of monitoring if the monitoring
                   has not demonstrated an exceedance of Cumulatively Impacted
                   Community Monitoring Thresholds outlined in Table 1 for any
                   Affected Pollutant being monitored and that the source’s requested
                   permitted emissions of volatile organic compounds, nitrogen
                   oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 or estimated annual actual emissions
                   of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylene are below thresholds
                   outlined in Section I.B.4. of Part A of this Regulation Number 3. The
                   Division may approve the petition to discontinue monitoring
                   requirements if it finds that sufficient information has been collected
                   to assess a source’s impact on the Cumulatively Impacted
                   Community in which the source is located. In determining approval
                   of the petition to discontinue monitoring the Division may consider


                                                                                       167
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   the source’s compliance history, monitored concentration levels,
                   burdens experienced by communities, density of monitoring
                   occurring in the community, and planned startup, shutdown, and
                   malfunction events with high levels of emissions.

                   III.J.4.b.(i)   The Division's approval of a request to discontinue
                           well production monitoring does not relieve a source's
                           requirement to reevaluate the need for source-specific
                           monitoring of any future modifications.

           III.J.4.c.      Well production facilities may petition to discontinue well
                   production monitoring after one year and the Division may approve
                   the petition to discontinue monitoring if the source can demonstrate
                   that monitored concentrations are below Cumulatively Impacted
                   Community Monitoring Thresholds in Table 1 and the source meets
                   the design and operational criteria identified in Regulation Number
                   7, Part B, Sections II.E.4.f.(i) and II.E.4.f.(ii).

                   III.J.4.c.(i)   The Division's approval of a request to discontinue
                           well production monitoring does not relieve a source's
                           requirement to reevaluate the need for source-specific
                           monitoring of any future modifications.

     III.J.5. Owners or operators of new or modified sources located in
           Disproportionately Impacted Communities that are utilizing general
           permits must submit a notification at the time of registration for a general
           permit or permits issued pursuant to Section III.I. of this Part B indicating
           the source will comply with the monitoring requirements outlined in this
           Section III.J., as applicable, by either:

           III.J.5.a.      Complying with source-specific monitoring pursuant to
                   Section III.J.2. of this Part B;

           III.J.5.b.      Paying community monitoring fees pursuant to Section
                   III.J.3. of this Part B; or



                                                                                         168
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           III.J.5.c.     Complying with well production facility monitoring pursuant
                   to Section III.J.4. of this Part B.

           III.J.5.d.     Owners or operators must comply with the monitoring
                   methodology selected on the general permit registration form.




                                                                                   169
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

PART C        CONCERNING OPERATING PERMITS
I.     Applicability
The provisions of this Regulation Number 3, Part C shall apply statewide to all sources
of air pollutants that are required to obtain an operating permit as specified in Section II.
The provisions of this Part C shall also apply, except as otherwise provided herein, to
those minor sources of air pollutants that voluntarily choose to obtain an operating
permit.

I.A.   DEFINITIONS

       I.A.1. Affected Source (acid deposition program)

              A source of air pollutants that includes one or more fossil fuel fired
              combustion devices subject to emission reduction requirements or
              limitations under Title IV of the Federal Act, Code of Federal Regulations
              Title 40, Part 72, or under the state Act.

       I.A.2. Minor Permit Modification

              Any revisions to an operating permit issued by the Division that meets the
              criteria of Sections X. or XI. of this Part C.

       I.A.3. Permit Modification

              Any revision to an operating permit issued by the Division that cannot be
              accomplished under the administrative permit amendment procedures set
              forth in Section III. of Part A of this regulation, or the minor permit
              modification procedures set forth in Sections X. or XI. of this Part C. A
              permit modification for purposes of the acid rain portion of a permit shall
              be governed by regulations promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act,
              found at Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 72.

       I.A.4. Permit Shield

              Where a source operates in compliance with all operating permit terms
              and conditions, the source shall be deemed in compliance with the state
              and Federal Acts where the permit includes all applicable requirements of



                                                                                          170
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           such acts, specifically states that other identified provisions are not
           applicable, and states that the permit shield applies. The permit shield
           does not apply to terms and conditions that become applicable to the
           source subsequent to permit issuance. The permit shield shall not alter or
           affect the provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes Sections 25-7-112 or
           25-7-113, Section 303 of the Federal Act, the applicable requirements of
           the acid rain program, consistent with Section 408(a) of the Federal Act, or
           the ability of the Administrator to obtain information from a source
           pursuant to Section 114 of the Federal Act; nor shall the permit shield
           affect the liability of an owner or operator of a source for any violation of
           applicable requirements prior to or at the time of permit issuance.

     I.A.5. Renewal of an Operating Permit

           The process by which a permit is reissued at the end of its term.

     I.A.6. Section 502(b)(10) Changes

           Changes that contravene an express permit term. Such changes do not
           violate applicable requirements or contravene federally enforceable permit
           terms and conditions that are monitoring (including test methods), record
           keeping, reporting, or compliance certification requirements.

     I.A.7. Significant Permit Modification

           All operating permit modifications that do not qualify as minor permit
           modifications or as administrative permit amendments. At a minimum, a
           significant permit modification shall include:

           I.A.7.a.      Any change that causes a significant increase in the rate of
                  emissions as described by any permit term or condition;

           I.A.7.b.      Any change that is considered a modification under Title I of
                  the Federal Act;

           I.A.7.c.      Any change that requires or changes a case-by-case
                  determination of an emission limitation or other standard;



                                                                                       171
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.A.7.d.       Any change that requires or changes a source specific
                     determination for temporary sources of ambient impacts;

              I.A.7.e.       Any change that requires or changes a visibility or increment
                     analysis;

              I.A.7.f. Every significant change in existing monitoring permit terms or
                     conditions; and

              I.A.7.g.       Every relaxation of reporting or record keeping permit terms
                     or conditions.

              I.A.7.h.       Every change that seeks to establish or change a permit
                     term or condition for which there is no corresponding underlying
                     applicable requirement and that the source has assumed to avoid
                     an applicable requirement to which the source would otherwise be
                     subject. Such terms and conditions include:

                     I.A.7.h.(i)      A federally enforceable emissions cap assumed to
                             avoid classification as a modification under any provision of
                             Title I of the Federal Act; and

                     I.A.7.h.(ii)     An alternative emissions limit approved pursuant to
                             regulations promulgated under Section 112(i)(5) of the
                             Federal Act

              I.A.7.i. The establishment of a Plant-wide Applicability Limitation (PAL) in
                     accordance with Section XVII. of Part D of this regulation.

              I.A.7.j. All significant permit modifications shall be processed using the
                     procedures set forth in Part C of Regulation Number 3 for combined
                     Construction/Operating Permit issuance. Such source may choose
                     to obtain a construction permit pursuant to Part B and shall
                     subsequently meet the operating permit requirements of Part C.

II.     General Requirements for Operating Permits
II.A.   General Considerations



                                                                                           172
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     II.A.1. Except where specifically authorized by the terms of this Regulation
           Number 3, Part C, no person shall operate any of the following sources
           without first obtaining an operating permit in accordance with the
           provisions of this regulation.

           II.A.1.a.     Any affected source;

           II.A.1.b.     Any major source; with the exception of those sources that
                  would be major based only on total suspended particulates
                  emissions

           II.A.1.c.     Any source required to have a permit pursuant to the
                  prevention of significant deterioration program of Part C, Title I, of
                  the Federal Act;

           II.A.1.d.     Any source required to have a permit pursuant to the
                  program for the attainment and maintenance of national ambient air
                  quality standards or Part D of Title I of the Federal Act; and

           II.A.1.e.     Any solid waste incineration unit that is a distinct operating
                  unit of any facility that combusts any solid waste material from
                  commercial or industrial establishments or the general public
                  (including single residences, hotels, and motels). Such term does
                  not include: (1) incinerators or other units required to have a permit
                  under United States Code Title, 42, Section 6925 of the Solid
                  Waste Disposal Act; (2) materials recovery facilities (including
                  primary or secondary smelters) which combust waste for the
                  primary purpose of recovering metals; (3) qualifying small power
                  production facilities, as defined in United States Code Title 16,
                  Section 769(17)(C), or qualifying cogeneration facilities, as defined
                  in United States Code Title 16, Section 796(18)(B), of the Federal
                  Power Act, that burn homogenous waste for the production of
                  electric energy or in the case of qualifying cogeneration facilities
                  that burn homogeneous waste for the production of electric energy
                  and steam or forms of useful energy (such as heat) that are used


                                                                                         173
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                       for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes; or (4) air
                       curtain incinerators provided that such incinerators only burn wood
                       wastes, yard wastes and clean lumber and that such air curtain
                       incinerators comply with any applicable opacity limitations.
                       Operating permits for solid waste incineration units shall be
                       obtained within thirty-six months of promulgation of a new source
                       performance standard applicable to such units, or by November 15,
                       1994, whichever is later.

               II.A.1.f.      Any source designated by the Administrator and the
                       Commission as requiring an operating permit.

               II.A.1.g.      A source is not required to obtain an operating permit solely
                       because it is subject to regulation or requirements pursuant to
                       Section 112(r) of the Federal Act.

        II.A.2. Any construction permit that has been issued pursuant to Regulation
               Number 3, Part B, with respect to a source that is subject to the operating
               permit requirements of this Part C, shall continue in full force and effect
               until such time as the operating permit is issued for such source, if the
               source has filed a timely and complete operating permit application. If a
               complete operating permit application has been timely filed with the
               Division by the source in accordance with the provisions of Section III., the
               source will not be subject to an enforcement action for operating the
               source without an operating permit. No source subject to an operating
               permit may operate after the time it is required to file a timely and
               complete application except in compliance with a previously issued
               operating permit and as set forth in Section II.B. A previously issued
               construction permit shall not constitute a defense for operating a source in
               violation of the requirement to have an operating permit.

        II.A.3. Any orders or decisions of the Division shall be final upon issuance.

II.B.   Application Shield




                                                                                           174
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        A timely and complete application for an operating permit under the provisions of
        this Part C shall operate as a defense to an enforcement action for the source's
        failure to have an operating permit until the Division or the Commission makes a
        final determination on the permit application. This defense to an enforcement
        action shall not apply if, subsequent to the completeness determination required
        by Section IV.B.1. of this Part C, the applicant fails to submit by the deadline
        specified in writing by the Division any additional information identified as
        necessary to process the application, or to otherwise supplement its application
        in accordance with the provisions of Sections IV.B.3. and IV.B.4. of this Part C.
        This defense to an enforcement action shall not be available to an applicant that
        files a fraudulent application. Permit expiration terminates the source's right to
        operate unless a timely and complete renewal application has been submitted to
        the Division.

II.C.   Transfer or assignment of ownership

        If transfer or assignment of ownership or operation of an air pollution emission
        source permitted pursuant to the operating permit requirements of this Part C of
        Regulation Number 3 is anticipated, the prospective owner or operator shall
        apply to the Division, on Division supplied administrative permit amendment
        forms, for reissuance of the existing permit. Part A, Section III. governs the
        administrative permit amendment procedures required for transfer or assignment
        of ownership of a source subject to the operating permit requirements. No
        administrative permit amendment shall be complete until a written agreement
        containing a specific date for transfer of permit, responsibility, coverage, and
        liability between the current and new permittee has been submitted to the
        Division.

II.D.   Portable Sources

        A portable source that conducts the same or similar type activity at multiple
        temporary locations throughout the state may be issued a single operating permit
        under this Part C, provided that the operation involves at least one change in
        location of the source during the five year permit term. Portable sources must


                                                                                           175
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        notify the Division at least ten days in advance of each change in location. The
        owner or operator of a portable source must demonstrate that all applicable
        requirements will be met at all locations at which the source will operate before
        an operating permit authorizing operations at the multiple locations will be issued.
        Sources subject to the acid rain provisions of Title IV of the Federal Act shall not
        constitute portable sources.

II.E.   Insignificant Activities and Exemptions from Operating Permit Requirements

Sources that are otherwise required to obtain an operating permit are not required to
include insignificant activities from the following list in their operating permit
applications, except as otherwise provided.

None of the exemptions listed, including emission de minimis levels, shall apply if by
taking such exemption a source would avoid any specific federal or state applicable
requirement, including, but not limited to, New Source Performance Standards,
Regulation Number 7, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (Section VI., Part D of this
Regulation Number 3), nonattainment New Source Review requirements (Section V.
Part D of this Regulation Number 3), Title III, National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants, Title V, and Colorado Maximum Achievable Control
Technology or Generally Available Control Technology . (If the potential to emit, taking
into account full design rate and continuous operation, triggers Prevention of Significant
Deterioration or New Source Review requirements, the source must submit an Air
Pollutant Emission Notice and apply for the appropriate permit, or must apply for a
permit to limit the physical or operational capacity of the source such that the source is
not considered to be a major source as defined in Section I.B.30. of Part A of this
regulation.).

Sources otherwise required to obtain an operating permit are required to include a list of
insignificant activities in their permit applications if the insignificant activities are listed in
Sections II.E.1. and II.E.2., or marked with an asterisk in Section II.E.3. The asterisk
denotes an insignificant activity source category based on the size of the activity,
emissions levels from the activity or the production rate of the activity. The owner or
operator of individual emission points marked with an asterisk in Section II.E.3., must


                                                                                               176
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

maintain sufficient record keeping verifying that the exemption applies. Such records
shall be made available for Division review upon request.

The following sources are exempt from the requirement to obtain an operating permit
pursuant to this Part C:

       II.E.1. Sources subject to regulation or requirements pertaining to standards of
              performance for new residential wood heaters pursuant to Regulation
              Number 6; or

       II.E.2. Sources subject to regulation or requirements pertaining to national
              emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants for asbestos in the
              course of demolition and renovation pursuant to Regulation Number 8.

       II.E.3. Certain categories of sources and activities which are considered to be
              insignificant contributors to air pollution as listed. A source solely
              comprised of one or more of these activities are not required to obtain an
              operating permit pursuant to this regulation, unless the source's emissions
              trigger the major source threshold as defined in Section I.B.30. of Part A of
              this Regulation Number 3 (definition of major source):

              II.E.3.a.      *Individual emission points in nonattainment areas having
                     uncontrolled actual emissions of any criteria pollutant (as defined in
                     Section I.B.20. of Part A of this Regulation Number 3) of less than
                     one ton per year, and individual emission points in attainment or
                     attainment/maintenance areas having uncontrolled actual
                     emissions of any criteria pollutant of less than two tons per year,
                     and each individual emission point with uncontrolled actual
                     emissions of lead less than one hundred pounds per year,
                     regardless of where the source is located.

              II.E.3.b.      Individual emission points of non-criteria reportable
                     pollutants having uncontrolled actual emissions less than the de
                     minimis levels as determined following the procedures set forth in
                     Appendix A.



                                                                                         177
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.c.      Air conditioning or ventilating systems not designed to
                   remove air pollutants generated by or released from other
                   processes or equipment.

           II.E.3.d.      Fireplaces used for recreational purposes, inside or outside.

           II.E.3.e.      Fires and equipment used for noncommercial cooking of
                   food for human consumption, or cooking of food for human
                   consumption at commercial food service establishments, except for
                   char broilers and wood fired equipment (but not including
                   campfires) in PM10 nonattainment areas. Charbroiler shall mean a
                   cooking device in a commercial food service establishment, either
                   gas fired or using charcoal or other fuel, upon which grease drips
                   down upon an open flame, charcoal or embers.

           II.E.3.f.      Flares used to indicate danger to the public.

           II.E.3.g.      Agriculture operations such as farming, cultivating and
                   harvesting, seasonal crop drying, grain handling operations that are
                   below New Source Performance Standards de minimis levels
                   (including milling and grain elevator operations), and animal feeding
                   operations that are not housed commercial swine feeding facilities
                   as defined in Regulation Number 2, Part B. This exemption does
                   not apply to an agricultural operation that: (1) is a major source
                   (Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.30.); (2) meets or
                   exceeds the storage capacity thresholds of a federal New Source
                   Performance Standards (Regulation Number 6, Part A); or (3)
                   participates in the early reduction program of the Federal Act,
                   Section 112. Ancillary operations such as fueling stations located at
                   farms or ranches are not exempt from Air Pollutant Emission Notice
                   and permit requirements unless otherwise below the de minimis
                   emission levels contained in this regulation, and are not exempt
                   from other applicable regulations promulgated by the Commission.




                                                                                        178
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.h.        Emissions from, or construction, or alteration of residential
                   structures, including all buildings or other structures used primarily
                   as a place of residence, and including home heating devices.

           II.E.3.i.        Research laboratories

                   II.E.3.i.(i)     Noncommercial (in house) experimental and
                            analytical laboratory equipment that is bench scale in nature
                            including quality control/quality assurance laboratories,
                            process support laboratories, environmental laboratories
                            supporting a manufacturing or industrial facility, and research
                            and development laboratories.

                   II.E.3.i.(ii)    *Research and development activities that are of a
                            small pilot scale and that process less than ten thousand
                            pounds of test material per year;

                   II.E.3.i.(iii)   *Small pilot scale research and development projects
                            less than six months in duration with controlled actual
                            emissions less than five hundred pounds of any criteria
                            pollutant or ten pounds of any non-criteria reportable
                            pollutant.

           II.E.3.j.        *Disturbance of surface areas for purposes of land
                   development, that do not exceed twenty-five contiguous acres and
                   that do not exceed six months in duration. (This does not include
                   mining operations or disturbance of contaminated soil).

           II.E.3.k.        *Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment, other than
                   smokehouse generators and internal combustion engines, that
                   uses gaseous fuel, and that has a design rate less than or equal to
                   five million British thermal units per hour. (See definition of fuel
                   burning equipment in the Common Provisions Regulation).

           II.E.3.l.        Internal combustion engines powering portable drilling rigs.




                                                                                          179
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.m.     *Petroleum industry flares, not associated with refineries,
                   combusting natural gas containing no hydrogen sulfide except in
                   trace amounts (less than five hundred parts per million weight),
                   approved by the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission
                   and having uncontrolled emissions of any pollutant of less than five
                   tons per year.

           II.E.3.n.     *Chemical storage tanks or containers that hold less than
                   five hundred gallons, that have an annual average throughput less
                   than twenty-five gallons per day, and are not associated with either
                   oil and gas production wastewater or commercial facilities that
                   accept oil production wastewater for processing.

           II.E.3.o.     Unpaved public and private roadways, except for haul roads
                   located within a stationary source site boundary.

           II.E.3.p.     Sanding of streets and roads to abate traffic hazards caused
                   by ice and snow.

           II.E.3.q.     Open burning activities, except that all reporting and
                   permitting requirements that apply to such operations must be
                   followed (see Regulation Number 9).

           II.E.3.r.     Brazing, soldering, or welding operations that use lead
                   based compounds. All welding that occurs strictly for maintenance
                   purposes is exempt.

           II.E.3.s.     Street and parking lot striping.

           II.E.3.t.     Battery recharging areas.

           II.E.3.u.     Aerosol can usage.

           II.E.3.v.     Sawing operations that are ancillary to facility operations and
                   are not part of the production process.




                                                                                       180
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.w.       The process of demolition and re-bricking of furnaces and
                   kilns. This does not include subsequent operation of such furnaces
                   or kilns.

           II.E.3.x.       Road and lot paving operations at commercial and industrial
                   facilities, except that asphalt and cement batch plants require Air
                   Pollutant Emission Notices and permits, unless exempt under some
                   other section.

           II.E.3.y.       Adhesive use that is not related to production.

           II.E.3.z.       Fire training activities.

           II.E.3.aa.      Caulking operations that are not part of a production
                   process.

           II.E.3.bb.      *Landscaping and site housekeeping devices equal to or
                   less than ten horsepower in size (lawnmowers, trimmers, snow
                   blowers, etc.).

           II.E.3.cc.      Fugitive emissions from landscaping activities (e.g.,
                   weeding, sweeping).

           II.E.3.dd.      Landscaping use of pesticides, fumigants, and herbicides.

           II.E.3.ee.      *Crude oil loading truck equipment at exploration and
                   production sites where the loading rate does not exceed 10,000
                   gallons of crude oil per day averaged on an annual basis.
                   Condensate truck loading equipment at exploration and production
                   sites that splash fill less than 6750 barrels of condensate per year
                   or that submerge fill less than 16308 barrels of condensate per
                   year.

           II.E.3.ff .     Emergency events such as accidental fires.

           II.E.3.gg.      Smoking rooms and areas.

           II.E.3.hh.      Plastic pipe welding.




                                                                                     181
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.ii.     Vacuum cleaning systems used exclusively for industrial,
                   commercial, or residential housekeeping purposes.

           II.E.3.jj.     Beauty salons.

           II.E.3.kk.     Operations involving acetylene, butane, propane and other
                   flame cutting torches.

           II.E.3.ll.     Pharmacies.

           II.E.3.mm.     *Chemical storage areas where chemicals are stored in
                   closed containers, and where total storage capacity does not
                   exceed five thousand gallons. This exemption applies solely to
                   storage of such chemicals. This exemption does not apply to
                   transfer of chemicals from, to, or between such containers.

           II.E.3.nn.     Architectural painting, roof coating material and associated
                   surface preparation (except for sandblasting and except for volatile
                   organic compound emissions, associated with surface preparation,
                   above Air Pollutant Emission Notice de minimis levels) for
                   maintenance purposes at industrial or commercial facilities.

           II.E.3.oo.     Emissions of air pollutants that are not criteria or non-criteria
                   reportable pollutants (see Sections I.B.20. and I.B.35. of Part A of
                   this regulation). These emissions include methane, ethane and
                   carbon dioxide.

           II.E.3.pp.     Janitorial activities and products.

           II.E.3.qq.     Grounds keeping activities and products.

           II.E.3.rr.     Sources of odorous emissions that do not utilize emission
                   control equipment for control of odorous emissions. This exemption
                   applies to the odor emissions only. All other emissions are subject
                   to other exemptions set forth in this regulation. This exemption does
                   not exempt any source from the requirements of Regulation
                   Number 2.



                                                                                       182
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.ss.       Truck and car wash units.

           II.E.3.tt.       Office emissions, including cleaning, copying, and
                   restrooms.

           II.E.3.uu.       Exemption Repealed (January 30, 2020).

           II.E.3.vv.       Electrically operated curing ovens, drying ovens and similar
                   activities, articles, equipment, or appurtenances. This exemption
                   applies to the ovens only, and not to the items being dried in the
                   ovens.

           II.E.3.ww.       Equipment used exclusively for portable steam cleaning.

           II.E.3.xx.       Blast-cleaning equipment using a suspension of abrasive in
                   water and any exhaust system or collector serving them exclusively.

           II.E.3.yy.       Commercial laundries (except dry cleaners) that do not burn
                   liquid or solid fuel.

           II.E.3.zz.       Storage of butane, propane, or liquefied petroleum gas in a
                   vessel with a capacity of less than sixty thousand gallons, provided
                   the requirements of Regulation Number 7, Section IV. are met,
                   where applicable.

           II.E.3.aaa.      Storage tanks of capacity less than forty thousand gallons of
                   lubricating oils or waste lubricating oils.

           II.E.3.bbb.      *Venting of compressed natural gas, butane or propane gas
                   cylinders, with a capacity of one gallon or less.

           II.E.3.ccc.      *Fuel storage and dispensing equipment in ozone attainment
                   areas operated solely for company-owned vehicles where the daily
                   fuel throughput is no more than four hundred gallons per day,
                   averaged annually. Sources in an ozone attainment/maintenance
                   area must utilize Stage 1 vapor recovery on all tanks greater than
                   five hundred and fifty gallons capacity, as required by Regulation
                   Number 24, in order to take this exemption.



                                                                                        183
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.ddd.       Exemption Repealed.

           II.E.3.eee.       Indirect sources are exempt until a (permit) regulation
                    specific to indirect sources is promulgated by the Commission.

           II.E.3.fff.       *Storage tanks meeting all of the following criteria:

                    II.E.3.fff.(i)    Annual throughput is less than four hundred thousand
                             gallons; and

                    II.E.3.fff.(ii)   The liquid stored is one of the following:

                             II.E.3.fff.(ii)(A)     Diesel fuels 1-D, 2-D, or 4-6;

                             II.E.3.fff.(ii)(B)     Fuel oils #1 - #6;

                             II.E.3.fff.(ii)(C)     As turbine fuels 1 - GT through 4 - GT;

                             II.E.3.fff.(ii)(D)     An oil/water mixture with a vapor
                                      pressure less than or equal to that of diesel fuel (Reid
                                      vapor pressure of .025 psia).

           II.E.3.ggg.       Each individual piece of fuel burning equipment that uses
                    gaseous fuel, and that has a design rate less than or equal to ten
                    million British thermal units per hour, and that is used solely for
                    heating buildings for personal comfort.

           II.E.3.hhh.       Natural gas vehicle fleet fueling facilities.

           II.E.3.iii.       Electric motors driving equipment at non-commercial
                    machining shops.

           II.E.3.jjj.       Recreational swimming pools.

           II.E.3.kkk.       Forklifts.

           II.E.3.lll.       Handling equipment and associated activities for glass that
                    is destined for recycling.

           II.E.3.mmm. Containers, reservoirs, or tanks used exclusively for dipping
                    operations, that contain no organic solvents, for coating objects
                    with oils, waxes, greases, or natural or synthetic resins.


                                                                                           184
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.nnn.     Stationary Internal Combustion Engines that:

                   II. E.3.nnn.(i) Are power portable drilling rigs; or

                   II. E.3.nnn.(ii) Are emergency power generators that operate no
                           more than two hundred fifty hours per year; or

                   II. E.3.nnn.(iii)         Have uncontrolled actual emissions less than
                           five tons per year or manufacturer’s site-rated horsepower of
                           less than fifty

           II.E.3.ooo.     The collection, transmission, liquid treatment, and solids
                   treatment processes at domestic wastewater treatment works, or
                   treatment facilities that treat only domestic type wastewater, except
                   for combustion processes.

           II.E.3.ppp.     Gasoline stations located in ozone attainment areas.

           II.E.3.qqq.     *Surface mining activities that mine seventy thousand tons
                   or fewer of product material per year. A fugitive dust control plan is
                   required for such sources. Crushers, screens and other processing
                   equipment activities are not included in this exemption.

           II.E.3.rrr.     Composting piles, however, all odor requirements of
                   Regulation Number 2 must be met.

           II.E.3.sss.     Fugitive emissions of hazardous air pollutants that are
                   natural constituents of native soils and rock (not added or
                   concentrated by chemical or mechanical processes) from
                   underground mines or surface mines unless such source is a major
                   source of hazardous air pollutants under Part C of this Regulation
                   Number 3.

           II.E.3.ttt.     The use of pesticides, fumigants, and herbicides when used
                   in accordance with requirements established under the federal
                   Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act as established by the
                   U.S. EPA (United States Code Title 7, Section 136 et seq.).



                                                                                        185
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.E.3.uuu.    Ventilation of emissions from mobile sources operating
                  within a tunnel, garage, or building that are not operating for
                  transportation purposes and are subject to stationary source
                  requirements,.

           II.E.3.vvv.    Non-asbestos demolition.

           II.E.3.www. Sandblast equipment when the blast media is recycled and
                  the blasted material are collected.

           II.E.3.xxx.    Exemption Repealed.

           II.E.3.yyy.    Surface water storage impoundment of non-potable water
                  and storm water evaporation ponds, with the exceptions of
                  impoundment of oil and gas production wastewater (including
                  produced water tanks) and commercial facilities that accept oil and
                  gas production wastewater for processing.

           II.E.3.zzz.    Non-potable water pipeline vents.

           II.E.3.aaaa. Steam vents and safety release valves.

           II.E.3.bbbb. Exemption Repealed.

           II.E.3.cccc.   Seal and lubricating oil systems for steam turbine electric
                  generators.

           II.E.3.dddd. Venting of natural gas lines for safety purposes. This
                  exemption does not apply to routine or predictable emissions at or
                  associated with a stationary source.

           II.E.3.eeee. Chemical storage tanks

                  II.E.3.eeee.(i)       *Sulfuric acid storage tanks not to exceed ten
                          thousand five hundred gallons capacity.

                  II.E.3.eeee.(ii)      *Sodium hydroxide storage tanks.




                                                                                        186
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

               II.E.3.ffff.   Wet screening operations notwithstanding the applicability of
                        the New Source Performance Standards included in the Code of
                        Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 60, Subpart OOO.

               II.E.3.gggg. *Any condensate storage tank with a production rate of 730
                        barrels per year or less or condensate storage tanks that are
                        manifold together with a production rate of 730 barrels per year or
                        less that are owned and operated by the same person, and are
                        located at exploration and production sites.

II.F.   Sources that are not required by this Part C to obtain an operating permit may
        elect to apply for, and may be issued, an operating permit. Any such permit
        issued must contain terms and conditions sufficient to satisfy the requirements of
        this regulation.

II.G.   All federally enforceable terms and conditions in an operating permit, including
        any provisions designed to limit a source's potential to emit, are enforceable by
        the Administrator, as well as citizens pursuant to United States Code Title 42,
        Section 7604.

III.    Operating Permit Application Requirements
III.A. Option for pre application meeting

        Prior to submitting an application for a permit an applicant may request and, if so
        requested, the Division shall grant, a pre application meeting with the applicant.
        At such meeting, the Division shall advise the applicant of the applicable permit
        requirements, including the information, plans, specifications and the data
        required to be furnished with the permit application, based on the best
        information available from the applicant at the time. Failure of the Division to
        identify all requirements and information does not exempt the source from
        compliance with applicable requirements or these regulations.

III.B. Application for operating permit and combined construction/operating permit
        applications




                                                                                           187
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.B.1. An application for an operating permit must be prepared on forms supplied
            by the Division that meet all the requirements of the Federal Act.

     III.B.2. Each source required to obtain an operating permit pursuant to Section III.
            of this Part C, for the first time, shall submit an application for such a
            permit no later than twelve months after the source becomes subject to
            the operating permit requirement. A source that becomes subject to the
            operating permit program by operation of law, such as the adoption of new
            legal requirements, shall submit an application for an operating permit
            within twelve months of the effective date of such new legal requirements
            unless otherwise specified by the requirements. A new source or an
            existing source that modifies in a way that renders it newly subject to the
            operating permit requirements, shall submit a complete application for an
            operating permit within twelve months of commencing operation, except
            as otherwise provided herein. Modifications made to a source with an
            operating permit, through a permit issued under Part B shall apply for a
            modification to their operating permit within twelve months of startup. A
            new source and any significant modification to an operating permit must
            meet the applicable requirements of Part B.

     III.B.3. Reserved.

     III.B.4. Reserved.

     III.B.5. All other major sources existing on January 1, 1995 shall submit their
            operating permit applications unless otherwise notified by the Division.

     III.B.6. Each source subject to an operating permit shall submit an application for
            renewal of the operating permit at least twelve months, but not more than
            eighteen months, prior to the expiration of the operating permit. All of the
            provisions governing the application for and issuance of operating permits
            are applicable to applications for renewal of operating permits, except that
            an application for permit renewal may address only those portions of the
            permit that require revision, supplementing, or deletion, incorporating the
            remaining permit terms by reference from the previous permit. A copy of


                                                                                         188
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            any materials incorporated by reference must be included with the
            application. The Division may choose to issue a draft renewal or proposed
            renewal permit specifying only those portions that will be revised,
            supplemented, or deleted, incorporating the remaining permit terms by
            reference. All requirements for compliance plans, compliance schedules
            and compliance certifications found in Sections III.B.7., III.B.8., and III.C.8.
            through III.C.13. of this Part C, are applicable to the entire operating
            permit upon renewal.

     III.B.7. A source required to obtain a construction permit pursuant to Part B of this
            Regulation Number 3 may submit an application for a combined
            construction permit and operating permit on a standard application form
            supplied by the Division prior to commencing construction, modification,
            installation or commencement of any activities or operations for which a
            construction permit is required pursuant to Part B. In accordance with the
            provisions of Part B, a source applying for a combined
            construction/operating permit cannot construct before issuance of a
            permit.

     III.B.8. Applications shall be signed by a responsible official who shall also sign
            the compliance certification on the application. The compliance
            certification shall include: (a) a certification of compliance with all
            applicable requirements; (b) a statement of methods used for determining
            compliance, including a description of monitoring, record keeping, and
            reporting requirements and test methods; (c) a schedule for submission of
            compliance certifications during the permit term not less than annually, or
            more frequently as specified by the terms and conditions of the permit; (d)
            a statement indicating the source's compliance status with any applicable
            compliance assurance monitoring and compliance certification
            requirements; (e) if applicable to a source, a statement indicating the
            source has properly registered its risk management plan required
            pursuant to Section 112(r) of the Federal Act. Compliance certifications for
            state only conditions shall be separate from compliance certifications


                                                                                        189
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             required under the Federal Act, and shall only be required for sources of
             such state only conditions seeking the operational flexibility provisions of
             Sections X., XI., and XII. of this Part C. Sources seeking protection under
             the terms of the permit shield for such state only conditions, or sources of
             state only conditions are otherwise required to obtain an operating permit
             pursuant to the state Act.

      III.B.9. Each application form, report and compliance certification submitted
             pursuant to this regulation shall contain a certification by a responsible
             official of the truth, accuracy and completeness of such form, report or
             certification stating that, based on information and belief formed after
             reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are
             true, accurate and complete.

III.C. Complete applications

      The applicant shall furnish all information and data required by the Division to
      evaluate the permit application and to make its preliminary analysis in
      accordance with Section IV. of this Part C including, but not limited to:

      III.C.1. Identifying information, including company name and address (or plant
             name and address if different from the company name), owner's name
             and agent, and telephone number and name of plant site
             manager/contact;

      III.C.2. A description of the source's processes and products (by standard
             industrial classification code) including any associated with alternate
             scenarios identified by the source;

      III.C.3. The following emission-related information:

             III.C.3.a.    All emissions of pollutants for which the source is major, and
                    all emissions of regulated air pollutants. A permit application shall
                    describe all emissions of regulated air pollutants emitted from any
                    emissions unit, except where such units are exempted under
                    Section II.E. of this Part C, and all additional information related to



                                                                                          190
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    the emissions of pollutants sufficient to verify which requirements
                    are applicable to the source and other information necessary to
                    collect any permit fees owed pursuant to Section VI. of Part A of
                    this regulation;

            III.C.3.b.     Identification and description of all points of emissions
                    described in Section III.C.3.a., in sufficient detail to establish the
                    basis for fees and applicability of requirements of the Federal Act;

            III.C.3.c.     Emissions rate in tons per year and in such terms as are
                    necessary to establish compliance consistent with the applicable
                    standard reference test method;

            III.C.3.d.     The following information to the extent it is needed to
                    determine or regulate emissions: fuels, fuel use, raw materials,
                    production rates, and operating schedules;

            III.C.3.e.     Identification and description of air pollution control
                    equipment and compliance monitoring devices or activities;

            III.C.3.f.     Limitations on source operation affecting emissions or any
                    work practice standards, where applicable, for all regulated air
                    pollutants at the source;

            III.C.3.g.     Other information required by any applicable requirement,
                    including information related to stack height limitations developed
                    pursuant to United States Code Title 42, Section 7423 (Part A,
                    Section VIII. of this Regulation Number 3); and

            III.C.3.h.     Calculations on which the information required in Sections
                    III.C.3.a. through III.C.3.g. are based.

     III.C.4. The following air pollution control requirements:

            III.C.4.a.     Citation and description of all applicable requirements, and

            III.C.4.b.     Description of, or reference to, any applicable test method
                    for determining compliance with each applicable requirement.



                                                                                             191
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     III.C.5. Other specific information that may be necessary to implement and
           enforce other applicable requirements of the Federal Act or of this Section
           III., or to determine the applicability of such requirements.

     III.C.6. An explanation of any proposed exemptions from otherwise applicable
           requirements.

     III.C.7. Additional information as determined to be necessary by the Division to
           define alternative operating scenarios identified by the source pursuant to
           Section IV.A. of Part A of this regulation, or to define permit terms and
           conditions implementing Section XII. of this Part C.

     III.C.8. A compliance plan which contains: (a) a description of the compliance
           status of the source with respect to all applicable requirements; (b) for
           applicable requirements with which the source is in compliance, a
           statement that the source will continue to comply with such requirements;
           (c) for applicable requirements that will become effective during the permit
           term, a statement that the source will meet the requirements on a timely
           basis; and (d) for requirements for which the source is not anticipated to
           be in compliance at the time of permit issuance, a narrative description of
           how the source will achieve compliance with such requirements.

     III.C.9. A compliance schedule which contains: (a) for applicable requirements
           with which the source is in compliance, a statement that the source will
           continue to comply with such requirements; or (b) for applicable
           requirements that will become effective during the permit term, a
           statement that the source will meet the requirements on a timely basis. A
           statement that the source will meet in a timely manner applicable
           requirements that become effective during the permit term shall satisfy the
           provision, unless a more detailed schedule is expressly required by the
           applicable requirement; and (c) a schedule of compliance for sources that
           are not anticipated to be in compliance at the time of permit issuance. This
           schedule shall include a schedule of enforceable remedial milestones,
           leading to compliance with any applicable requirements for which the


                                                                                       192
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            source will be in noncompliance at the time of permit issuance. This
            compliance schedule shall be at least as stringent as that contained in any
            judicial consent decree or administrative order to which the source is
            subject. Any such schedule of compliance shall be supplemental to, and
            shall not sanction noncompliance with, the applicable requirements on
            which it is based.

     III.C.10.     A schedule for submission of progress reports no less frequently
            than every six months for sources required having a schedule of
            compliance to remedy a violation.

     III.C.11.     The compliance plan content requirements specified in this section
            shall apply and be included in the acid rain portion of a compliance plan
            for an affected source, except as specifically superseded by regulations
            promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act, Code of Federal
            Regulations Title 40, Part 72, with regard to the schedule and method(s)
            the source will use to achieve compliance with the acid rain emissions
            limitations.

     III.C.12.     Data necessary to allow the Division to determine whether the
            source complies with:

            III.C.12.a.    All applicable emission control regulations;

            III.C.12.b.    Applicable regulations for the control of hazardous air
                   pollutants;

            III.C.12.c.    Requirements of the nonattainment and attainment
                   programs, Sections V. and VI. of Part D of this regulation; and

            III.C.12.d.    Any applicable ambient air quality standards (for temporary
                   sources and new or modified sources applying for a combined
                   construction/operating permit only). When the data includes
                   modeling, the model used shall be an appropriate one given the
                   topography, meteorology, and other characteristics of the region
                   that the source will impact; and



                                                                                      193
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            III.C.12.e.   All applicable regulations.

     III.C.13.            If Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) have not been previously
            filed, a new Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) must be submitted in
            accordance with Part A, Section II.

     III.C.14.            (State Only) A Division-verified environmental justice
            summary in accordance with Section III.B.5. of Part B of this Regulation
            Number 3.

            III.C.14.a.   Sources submitting operating permit applications for any of
                   the following reasons are exempt from the requirement to include a
                   verified environmental justice summary with the application:

                   III.C.14.a.(i) The application is only for administrative permit
                          amendments, as defined in Section I.B.1.a. of Part A of this
                          Regulation Number 3.

                   III.C.14.a.(ii) The application requests an overall decrease or no
                          change in the annual emissions limits of each Affected
                          Pollutant across the facility.




                                                                                      194
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   III.C.14.a.(iii) The application is for a modification at an existing
                          source and a verified environmental justice summary has
                          already been submitted with a permit application for the
                          source using the most current version of the
                          Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November
                          2024). This exemption does not apply if the
                          Disproportionately Impacted Community Map has been
                          updated since the last environmental justice summary was
                          submitted for the source. Permit applicants relying on this
                          exemption must state in their permit application that they
                          have previously submitted an applicable summary and must
                          identify the date the summary was verified by the Division.
                          For the purposes of this exemption, if the source submitted a
                          Division-verified environmental justice summary along with a
                          construction permit application, the source may use the
                          summary submitted with the construction permit application
                          for the operating permit application if both of the following
                          apply:

                          III.C.14.a.(iii)(A)   The Disproportionately Impacted
                                   Community Map has not been updated to a new
                                   version since the construction permit application was
                                   submitted;

                          III.C.14.a.(iii)(B)   The provisions of the construction
                                   permit are being incorporated into the operating
                                   permit.

     III.C.15.     (State Only) For sources located in a Cumulatively Impacted
            Community as of the date the operating permit renewal application is
            received by the Division, a source-specific monitoring plan in accordance
            with Section V.C.5.d.(i) of Part C of this Regulation Number 3, if
            applicable.



                                                                                           195
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

III.D. Operating Permit Renewal

      In submitting an application for renewal of an operating permit issued under
      these regulations, a source may identify terms and conditions in its previous
      permit that remain unchanged and incorporate by reference those portions of its
      existing permit and the permit application and any permit amendments or
      modification applications that describe products, processes, operations, and
      emissions to which those terms and conditions apply. The source must identify
      specifically and list which portions of its previous permit and/or applications that
      are incorporated by reference. In addition, a renewal application must contain:

      III.D.1. Information for those products, processes, operations, and emissions, in
             accordance with the provisions of this Part C, that:

             III.D.1.a.      Are not addressed in the existing permit;

             III.D.1.b.      Are subject to applicable requirements that are not
                      addressed in the existing permit; or

             III.D.1.c.      Are permit terms and conditions that differ from those in the
                      existing permit.

      III.D.2. A compliance plan, schedule, and certification requirements for the entire
             permit in accordance with this Part C.

      III.D.3. (State Only) A Division-verified environmental justice summary in
             accordance with Section III.B.5. of Part B of this Regulation Number 3 if a
             summary has not been submitted for the source in accordance with
             Section III.B.5. in the five years preceding the operating permit renewal
             application.

III.E. A major source may comply with this section through any one of the following
      methods:

      III.E.1. The source may obtain a single permit for all relevant emission points
             located within a contiguous or adjacent area under common control
             (whether or not falling under the same two-digit standard industrialized
             code);


                                                                                        196
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

         III.E.2. The source may obtain separate permits for separate emission points or
                groups of emission points, or

         III.E.3. The Division may issue a permit covering one or more emission points
                eligible for coverage under a general permit and the source may obtain a
                separate permit or permits for emission points not eligible for such
                coverage.

III.F.   The acid rain portions of permit applications shall be made on nationally
         standardized forms pursuant to regulation promulgated by the Administrator at
         Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72.

IV.      Processing of Applications
IV.A. Standards for application determinations

         The Division shall evaluate operating permit applications and combined
         construction/operating permit applications. The evaluation of permit applications
         shall consider, for the construction permit portion, whether operation of the
         proposed new source at the date of start-up, and for operating permits whether
         the permitted emissions, will comply with all applicable emissions control
         regulations, regulations for the control of hazardous air pollutants, applicable
         ambient air quality standards and regulations, requirements for the prevention of
         significant deterioration of air quality that is better than the National Ambient Air
         Quality Standards, and nonattainment and attainment/maintenance area
         requirements. The submittal of a complete application shall not affect the
         requirement that any source have a construction permit pursuant to Part B of this
         Regulation Number 3, except as otherwise required herein.

IV.B. Completeness determinations

         IV.B.1. An application for an operating permit or a combined construction
                permit/operating permit, will not be deemed to be complete until all
                information and data required to evaluate the application have been
                submitted to the Division. Within sixty calendar days after the receipt of an
                application or any supplemental information requested by the Division, the



                                                                                            197
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           Division will give notice to the applicant if and in what respect the
           application is incomplete. If the Division fails to notify an applicant that the
           application is incomplete within sixty calendar days of receipt of the
           original application or receipt of the requested supplemental information,
           the application shall be deemed to have been complete as of the day of
           receipt by the Division of the application or the last submitted
           supplemental information, whichever is later, for the purposes specified in
           Section II.B. of this Part C (concerning the application shield). Nothing
           herein precludes the Division from requesting further information about the
           source in order to process the permit application. If the Division concludes
           that the application is not complete, it shall inform the applicant of the
           additional information that must be submitted prior to consideration of the
           application. No completeness determination shall be required for
           applications for administrative or minor permit modification procedures
           under Section III. of Part A of this regulation, or Sections X. and XI. of this
           Part C.

     IV.B.2. The Division shall review each application submitted to determine whether
           it is complete. An application shall be deemed to be complete when it
           contains the information required by Sections III.B., III.C., and III.D. of this
           Part C in sufficient detail for the Division to evaluate the subject source
           and the permit application, to determine all applicable requirements and to
           calculate all applicable fees.

     IV.B.3. A source shall supplement its permit application to correct or update
           information provided in its initial submission as soon as it becomes aware
           of any omissions or incorrect information submitted or to address changes
           made to the source after submission of the application, but prior to public
           notice as provided in Section VI. of this Part C.

     IV.B.4. A source shall supplement its permit application to address any
           requirements that become applicable to the source after the date the
           source submitted its application, but prior to issuance of a draft permit.



                                                                                         198
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

IV.C. Permit application processing timeframes

       For operating permit applications, or for combined construction and operating
       permit applications, the Division shall approve or disapprove the permit
       application within eighteen months of receipt of a complete application. Permit
       processing timeframes for operating permit applications for affected sources
       under the acid rain provisions shall be governed by Code of Federal Regulations
       Title 40, Part 72. If a timely and complete application is filed, but the Division fails
       to issue or deny a renewal operating permit prior to expiration of the operating
       permit for which a source is seeking renewal, the previously issued operating
       permit, and all of its terms and conditions, shall not expire until the renewal
       operating permit is issued and any previously extended permit shield continues in
       full force and operation. To the extent feasible, applications shall be acted upon
       in the order received except that priority shall be given to taking final action on
       applications for construction or modification under Title I, Parts C and Part D, of
       the Federal Act. Final action on such applications shall be taken within twelve
       months following receipt of a complete application.

IV.D. Requests for additional information

       If, after an application is deemed complete, the Division determines that
       additional information is necessary to evaluate or take final action on an
       application, the Division shall request necessary information in writing and set a
       reasonable deadline for response. Additional information submitted within the
       deadline will be evaluated by the Division. If the applicant fails to provide the
       requested information or does not meet the deadline, the source's ability to
       operate without a permit shall terminate on the date of the deadline as provided
       in Section II.B. of this Part C.

V.     Operating Permit Issuance, Renewals and Modifications
V.A.   Except as provided, the Division shall not issue, reissue or renew an operating
       permit until the source has obtained a final approval construction permit for all
       emission units pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G. However,
       nothing in this section shall preclude the Division from issuing, reissuing, or


                                                                                           199
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     renewing an operating permit if the holder of an initial approval construction
     permit has not commenced operation of the new construction or modification
     authorized by that construction permit. When the source has not demonstrated
     compliance with the terms of an initial approval construction permit as required
     pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G., or has not obtained a
     final approval construction permit as required, the Division may issue, reissue or
     renew an operating permit under the following circumstances:




                                                                                      200
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       V.A.1. If the source has not demonstrated compliance under the provisions of
             Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G., and the source is not
             anticipated to be in compliance at the time of the operating permit
             issuance with any of the terms or conditions of the initial approval
             construction permit, the operating permit must contain a compliance plan
             and compliance schedule that meets the requirements of this Part C,
             Sections III.C.8., III.C.9., and III.C.10., with respect to those permit
             term(s). In that instance, the deviation reporting required under this Part C,
             Section V.C.7.b. may, at the Division’s discretion, serve as the
             demonstration required pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
             III.G. and no final approval construction permit will be issued; or

       V.A.2. If the source has not demonstrated compliance under the provisions of
             Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G., and the source anticipates
             being in compliance at the time of the operating permit issuance with all of
             the terms or conditions of the initial approval construction permit, the
             Division can elect to allow the initial approval construction permit to
             continue in full force and effect pursuant Regulation Number 3, Part B,
             Section III.G.4. In that instance, the first deviation report after permit
             issuance as required under this Part C, Section V.C.7.b. may, at the
             Division’s discretion, serve as the demonstration required pursuant to
             Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G., and no final approval
             construction permit will be issued; or

       V.A.3. If the source has demonstrated compliance under the provisions of
             Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.G. but not yet received a final
             approval construction permit, the Division may, at its discretion, elect to
             either issue a final approval construction permit or allow the initial approval
             construction permit to continue in full force and effect. The Division shall
             provide written notice to the permittee of its election.

V.B.   An operating permit, permit modification or permit renewal shall be issued only
       upon a determination by the Division that the following criteria have been met:



                                                                                          201
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     V.B.1. The Division has received a complete application for a permit, permit
           modification, or permit renewal;

     V.B.2. Public comment and hearing requirements, except for modifications
           qualifying for minor permit modification procedures or administrative
           permit revisions;




                                                                                    202
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     V.B.3. Requirements for notifying and responding to affected states pursuant to
           Section IX. of this Part C. This section is not applicable to minor sources
           that voluntarily apply for an operating permit for purposes of Sections X.,
           XI., and XII., unless the source is required to have federally enforceable
           emissions limitations to be considered a minor source, nor to major
           sources of Colorado-only Hazardous Air Pollutants subject to the
           operating permit requirements solely due to state-only conditions under
           the state Act;

     V.B.4. Permit conditions provide for compliance with all applicable requirements
           and the requirements of this Regulation Number 3; and

     V.B.5. The Administrator has received a copy of the proposed permit and has not
           objected to its issuance within forty-five days of receipt of the proposed
           permit and all necessary supporting information. This section is not
           applicable to minor sources that voluntarily apply for an operating permit
           for purposes of Sections X., XI., and XII., unless the source is required to
           have federally enforceable emissions limitations to be considered a minor
           source, nor to major sources of Colorado-only Hazardous Air Pollutants
           subject to the operating permit requirements solely due to state only
           conditions under the state Act.

     V.B.6. The Administrator's objection to permit issuance shall be based on a
           determination that the proposed permit will not be in compliance with
           applicable requirements or requirements of Code of Federal Regulations
           Title 40, Part 70. Any such objection shall include a statement of the
           Administrator's reasons for objecting and a description of the terms and
           conditions that the permit must include to respond to the objection. Failure
           of the Division to do any of the following shall also constitute grounds for
           an objection by the Administrator:

           V.B.6.a.         Failure to comply with the provisions of Section V.F. of this
                  Part C for submission of copies of permit applications, proposed
                  permits, and final permits to the Administrator;


                                                                                        203
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              V.B.6.b.      Failure to comply with the provisions of Section IX. of this
                     Part C for review by affected states;

              V.B.6.c.      Failure to submit any information to the Administrator
                     necessary to review adequately the proposed permit; or

              V.B.6.d.      Failure to comply with the provisions of Section VI. of this
                     Part C for public participation.

       V.B.7. If the Division fails, within ninety days after an objection by the
              Administrator, to revise and submit a proposed permit in response to the
              objection, the Administrator will issue or deny the permit in accordance
              with the requirements of the federal program promulgated under Title V of
              the Federal Act.

       V.B.8. The permit applicant has paid all applicable hourly fees as set forth in Part
              A, Section VI. of this Regulation Number 3.

V.C.   An operating permit shall contain, at a minimum, the following:

       V.C.1. Emissions limitations and standards, including those operational
              requirements and limitations that assure compliance with all applicable
              requirements at the time of permit issuance, including:

              V.C.1.a.      The permit shall specify and reference the origin of and
                     authority for each term and condition, and identify any difference in
                     form as compared to the applicable requirement upon which the
                     term or condition is based; and

              V.C.1.b.      The permit shall state that, where an applicable requirement
                     of the Federal Act is more stringent than an applicable requirement
                     of regulations promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act, Code
                     of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72, both provisions shall be
                     incorporated into the permit and shall be federally enforceable; and

              V.C.1.c.              If allowed by the state implementation plan, an
                     alternative emissions limitation that is at least as stringent as an
                     applicable requirement may be substituted for an applicable


                                                                                            204
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   requirement as a permit term or condition, so long as the permit
                   containing such equivalency determination contains provisions to
                   ensure that any resulting emissions limitation is quantifiable,
                   accountable, enforceable and based on replicable procedures.

     V.C.2. The permit term shall be five years.

     V.C.3. The effective date and termination date of the permit shall be specifically
            identified in the permit.

     V.C.4. A statement of all monitoring and related record keeping and reporting
            requirements shall be specifically identified in the permit.

     V.C.5. Each permit shall contain the following requirements with respect to
            monitoring:

            V.C.5.a.      All emissions monitoring and analysis procedures or test
                   methods required under the applicable requirements, including any
                   required procedures and methods for compliance assurance
                   monitoring and compliance certification requirements;

            V.C.5.b.      Where the applicable requirement does not require periodic
                   testing or instrumental or non-instrumental monitoring, periodic
                   monitoring, or record keeping, sufficient to yield reliable data for the
                   relevant time period that are representative of the source's
                   compliance with the permit as required to be reported pursuant to
                   Section V.C.16.e. of this Part C. Such monitoring requirements shall
                   assure use of terms, test methods, units, averaging periods, and
                   other statistical conventions consistent with the applicable
                   requirements.

            V.C.5.c.              As necessary, requirements concerning the use,
                   maintenance and, where appropriate, installation of monitoring
                   equipment or methods.

            V.C.5.d.      (State Only) For each operating permit renewal application
                   submitted on or after July 15, 2024, the Division will include


                                                                                       205
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 requirements, as appropriate, for monitoring for existing sources of
                 Affected Pollutants located in Disproportionately Impacted
                 Communities as of the date the operating permit renewal
                 application is received by the Division. Compliance with the
                 provisions of this Section V.C.5.d. does not relieve a source of
                 compliance with monitoring requirements pursuant to other state or
                 federal law.

                 V.C.5.d.(i)    For sources located in Cumulatively Impacted
                        Communities, as of the date the operating permit renewal
                        application is received by the Division, for which there were
                        permit modification applications submitted or permits issued
                        since the last operating permit renewal application that
                        increased the source's emissions in excess of the thresholds
                        in Sections V.C.5.d.(i)(A) or V.C.5.d.(i)(B), the Division will
                        require the source to design and, within three months of
                        permit issuance, or other timeline approved by the Division,
                        implement a Division-approved source-specific monitoring
                        plan as outlined in Section III.J.2.b. of Part B of this
                        Regulation Number 3 for the Affected Pollutant(s) that
                        exceeded the applicable thresholds. Sources already
                        operating Division-approved source-specific monitoring for
                        the Affected Pollutant(s) are not required to conduct
                        additional monitoring under this V.C.5.d.(i). Source-specific
                        monitoring will not be required for total volatile organic
                        compounds.

                        V.C.5.d.(i)(A) Requested permitted emissions or permitted
                                emissions of nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 in
                                excess of the Affected Construction Source thresholds
                                defined in Part A, Section I.B.4.




                                                                                      206
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                         V.C.5.d.(i)(B) Estimated annual actual emissions of benzene,
                                 toluene, ethylbenzene, and/or xylene in excess of the
                                 Affected Construction Source thresholds defined in
                                 Part A, Section I.B.4.

                         V.C.5.d.(i)(C) Sources that last submitted an operating permit
                                 renewal before July 15, 2023 only need to look back
                                 at permit applications submitted and permits issued
                                 on or after July 15, 2023 that increased the source’s
                                 requested permitted emissions or permitted
                                 emissions.

                 V.C.5.d.(ii)    For sources subject to the monitoring requirements
                         outlined in Section V.C.5.d.(i) of this Part C, data collected
                         through monitoring efforts must be provided by the source to
                         the Division via Application Program Interface (API) or in
                         accordance with Division-approved frequency and methods.

                 V.C.5.d.(iii)   Any source subject to Section V.C.5.d.(i) of this Part C
                         that demonstrates through dispersion modeling that the
                         source’s maximum annual average modeled concentration
                         for the modeled Affected Pollutant is below Cumulatively
                         Impacted Community Monitoring Thresholds defined in Table
                         1 of Part B of this Regulation Number 3, may be relieved of
                         the requirements of Section V.C.5.d.(i) for that Affected
                         Pollutant.

                 V.C.5.d.(iv)    Sources for which the conditions of both Sections
                         V.C.5.d.(iv)(A) and V.C.5.d.(iv)(B) of this Part C apply must
                         participate in community monitoring in accordance with
                         Section V.C.5.d.(iv)(C) of this Part C.

                         V.C.5.d.(iv)(A)       Sources located in Socioeconomically
                                 Vulnerable Communities as of the date the operating
                                 permit renewal application is received by the Division,


                                                                                      207
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                              or sources located in Cumulatively Impacted
                              Communities as of the date the operating permit
                              renewal application is received by the Division who
                              are not subject to source-specific monitoring pursuant
                              to Section V.C.5.d.(i) of this Part C or who have
                              demonstrated through dispersion modeling in
                              accordance with Section V.C.5.d.(iii) of this Part C that
                              the maximum annual average modeled concentration
                              is below Cumulatively Impacted Community
                              Monitoring Thresholds defined in Table 1 of Part B of
                              this Regulation Number 3.

                       V.C.5.d.(iv)(B)      Sources that, since the last operating
                              permit renewal application and on or after October 15,
                              2024, were issued a modified operating permit or
                              submitted an operating permit modification application
                              to increase the source’s requested permitted
                              emissions of volatile organic compounds, nitrogen
                              oxides and/or direct PM2.5; and sources that, since
                              the last operating permit renewal application and on
                              or after October 15, 2024, were issued a modified
                              operating permit or submitted an operating permit
                              modification application based on an Air Pollutant
                              Emission Notice reflecting increased estimated
                              annual actual emissions of benzene, toluene,
                              ethylbenzene, and/or xylenes in an amount exceeding
                              non-criteria reportable pollutant thresholds set forth in
                              Part A, Section II.B.3.b. of this Regulation Number 3.

                              V.C.5.d.(iv)(B)(1)   The estimated annual actual
                                     emissions of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene,
                                     and/or xylenes and/or the requested permitted
                                     emissions of volatile organic compounds,


                                                                                   208
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                                      nitrogen oxides, and/or direct PM2.5 noted on
                                      the Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) and
                                      information submitted pursuant to Section III.C.
                                      of Part C of this Regulation Number 3 filed with
                                      the Division shall be used for
                                      Disproportionately Impacted Community
                                      Monitoring Fee assessment.

                        V.C.5.d.(iv)(C)       Sources subject to Section V.C.5.d.(iv)
                               of this Part C must participate in Disproportionately
                               Impacted Community Monitoring by paying the
                               invoiced processing fees to the Stationary Source
                               Control Fund as outlined in Table 2 –
                               Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring
                               Fees of Part B, Section III.J.3. of this Regulation
                               Number 3. All invoiced processing fees assessed
                               must be received within thirty (30) days of the date of
                               invoice issuance. All processing fees collected under
                               this Section V.C.5.d.(iv)(C) must be made payable to
                               the Colorado Department of Public Health and
                               Environment.

                 V.C.5.d.(v)   Sources subject to source-specific monitoring
                        pursuant to Section V.C.5.d.(i) may petition to discontinue
                        well production facility monitoring after two years of
                        monitoring. The petition must include monitoring data which
                        demonstrates that concentrations are below Cumulatively
                        Impacted Community Monitoring Thresholds outlined in
                        Table 1. The Division may approve the petition to discontinue
                        monitoring requirements if it finds that sufficient information
                        has been collected to assess a source’s impact on the
                        Cumulatively Impacted Community in which the source is
                        located. In determining approval of the petition to discontinue


                                                                                     209
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          monitoring the Division may consider the source’s
                          compliance history, monitored concentration levels, burdens
                          experienced by communities, density of monitoring occurring
                          in the community, and planned startup, shutdown, and
                          malfunction events with high level of emissions.

     V.C.6. Each permit shall incorporate all applicable record keeping requirements
           and require, where applicable, the following:

           V.C.6.a.       Records of required monitoring information, which includes
                  the following:

                  V.C.6.a.(i)      Date, place, as defined in the permit, and time of
                          sampling or measurements;

                  V.C.6.a.(ii)     Date(s) on which analyses were performed;

                  V.C.6.a.(iii)    The company or entity that performed the analysis;

                  V.C.6.a.(iv)     The analytical techniques or methods used;

                  V.C.6.a.(v)      The results of such analysis; and

                  V.C.6.a.(vi)     The operating conditions as existing at the time of
                          sampling or measurement.

           V.C.6.b.       The retention of records of all required monitoring data and
                  support information for a period of at least five years from the date
                  of the monitoring sample, measurement, report or application.
                  Support information, for this purpose, includes all calibration and
                  maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for
                  continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports
                  required by the permit. The applicant may, with the Division's
                  approval, maintain any of the records in a computerized form.
                  Sources must retain records of all required monitoring data and
                  support information for the most recent twelve-month period, as
                  well as compliance certifications for the past five years on site at all
                  times. A source shall make available for Division review all other


                                                                                         210
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  records of required monitoring data and support information
                  required to be retained by a source upon forty-eight hours’ advance
                  notice by the Division.

           V.C.6.c.              A permittee may request confidential treatment for
                  information in any report submitted under this section pursuant to
                  the limitations and procedures set forth in Section VII. of Part A of
                  this Regulation Number 3.

     V.C.7. Each permit shall incorporate all applicable reporting requirements, and
           shall require the following:

           V.C.7.a.      Submittal of all reports of any required monitoring at least
                  every six months except as otherwise required on a more frequent
                  basis pursuant to compliance assurance monitoring rules or other
                  applicable requirements. The Division may approve alternative
                  reporting formats and schedules proposed by an applicant
                  consistent with the requirements of this section, allowing for
                  coordination with other reporting requirements for that source. All
                  instances of deviations from any permit requirements must be
                  clearly identified in such reports. All required reports must be
                  certified by a responsible official consistent with Section III.B.8. of
                  this Part C;

           V.C.7.b.      Prompt reporting of deviations from permit requirements,
                  including those attributable to upset conditions as defined in the
                  permit, the probable cause of such deviations, and any corrective
                  actions or preventive measures taken. Each permit shall contain a
                  definition of prompt reporting in relation to the degree and type of
                  deviation likely to occur and the applicable requirements. Generally
                  “prompt” reporting shall entail reporting as required in Section
                  V.C.7.a., requiring submission of reports of deviations from permit
                  requirements at least every six months, except as otherwise
                  specified by the Division in the permit. Prompt reporting, for this


                                                                                        211
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  purpose, does not constitute an exception to the requirements of
                  Section VII. relating to reporting of emergency events for the
                  purpose of avoiding enforcement actions.

     V.C.8. A permit condition prohibiting emissions exceeding any allowances that
           the source lawfully holds under Title IV of the Federal Act or the
           regulations promulgated there under at Code of Federal Regulations Title
           40, Part 72.

     V.C.9. State only permit terms and conditions shall be listed separately on the
           operating permit. All procedural requirements of this Part C may apply to
           such state only conditions, except as otherwise required by the state Act,
           in order for sources to obtain the permit shield and all operational flexibility
           provisions. The permit shall also contain a specific designation as not
           being federally enforceable any state only terms and conditions included
           in the permit that are not required under the Federal Act or under any of its
           applicable requirements. A source may choose to obtain a separate
           construction permit pursuant to Part B for such state only requirements,
           except as otherwise required under the state Act;

     V.C.10.      A severability clause that demands the continued validity of the
           various permit requirements in the event of a challenge to any portion of
           the permit;

     V.C.11.      Provisions stating the following permit terms and conditions:

           V.C.11.a.      The permittee must comply with all conditions of the permit
                  issued under this Part C. Any permit noncompliance relating to
                  federally enforceable terms or conditions constitutes a violation of
                  the Federal Act, as well as the state Act and this regulation. Any
                  permit noncompliance relating to state only terms or conditions
                  constitutes a violation of the state Act and this regulation, shall be
                  enforceable pursuant to state law, and shall not be enforceable by
                  citizens under Section 304 of the Federal Act. Any such violation of
                  the Federal Act, the state Act or regulations implementing either


                                                                                       212
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 statute is grounds for enforcement action, for permit termination,
                 revocation and reissuance or modification or for denial of a permit
                 renewal application.

           V.C.11.b.    It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement
                 action or a consideration in favor of a permittee in a permit
                 termination, revocation or modification action or action denying a
                 permit renewal application that it would have been necessary to
                 halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance
                 with the conditions of the permit;

           V.C.11.c.    The permit may be modified, revoked, reopened, and
                 reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of any request by the
                 permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or
                 termination, or any notification of planned changes or anticipated
                 noncompliance does not stay any permit condition, except as
                 provided in Sections X. and XI. of this Part C;

           V.C.11.d.    The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort,
                 or any exclusive privilege;

           V.C.11.e.    The permittee shall furnish to the Division, within a
                 reasonable time specified by the Division, any information that the
                 Division may request in writing to determine whether cause exists
                 for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to
                 determine compliance with the permit. Upon request, the permittee
                 shall also furnish to the Division copies of records required to be
                 kept by the permittee, including information claimed to be
                 confidential. Any information subject to a claim of confidentiality
                 shall be specifically identified and submitted separately from
                 information not subject to the claim;

     V.C.12.     A requirement that the permittee shall pay to the Division all
           applicable fees required by the state Act and regulations.




                                                                                       213
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     V.C.13.      A provision that no permit revision shall be required under any
           approved economic incentives, marketable permits, emissions trading and
           other similar programs or processes for changes that are specifically
           provided for in the permit;

     V.C.14.      Terms and conditions for reasonably anticipated operating
           scenarios identified by the source in its application for a permit and
           approved by the Division, in accordance with Section IV.A. of Part A of this
           regulation.

     V.C.15.      Terms and conditions, if the permit applicant requests them, for the
           trading of emissions increases and decreases in the permitted facility, in
           accordance with Section IV.B. of Part A.

     V.C.16.      The following elements with respect to compliance:

           V.C.16.a.     Consistent with Sections III.B.7., III.B.8., III.C.8. through
                  III.C.13., and V.C.4. through V.C.7. of this Part C, compliance,
                  certification, testing, monitoring, reporting, and record keeping
                  requirements sufficient to assure compliance with the terms and
                  conditions of the permit. Any document (including reports) required
                  by an operating permit shall contain a certification by a responsible
                  official that meets the requirements of Section III.B.8. of this Part C;

           V.C.16.b.     Inspection and entry requirements that require, upon
                  presentation of credentials and other documents as may be
                  required by law, the permittee shall allow the Division or any
                  authorized representative to perform the following:

                  V.C.16.b.(i)   Enter upon the permittees premises where an
                         operating permit source is located, or emissions-related
                         activity is conducted, or where records must be kept under
                         the terms of the permit;

                  V.C.16.b.(ii) Have access to, and copy, at reasonable times, any
                         records that must be kept under the conditions of the permit;



                                                                                         214
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 V.C.16.b.(iii) Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment
                        (including monitoring and air pollution control equipment),
                        practices, or operations regulated or required under the
                        permit. The permittee shall provide, as part of its permit
                        application, a list of any specialized safety equipment which
                        may be necessary for use by an inspector; and

                 V.C.16.b.(iv) Any sampling or monitoring of substances or
                        parameters at reasonable times for the purpose of assuring
                        compliance with the permit or applicable requirements;

           V.C.16.c.    A schedule of compliance consistent with Section III.C. of
                 this Part C;

           V.C.16.d.    Progress reports consistent with an applicable schedule of
                 compliance and Section III.C. of this Part C, to be submitted at least
                 semiannually or at a more frequent period if so specified in the
                 applicable requirement or by the Division. Such progress reports
                 shall contain the following:

                 V.C.16.d.(i)   Dates for achieving the activities, milestones, or
                        compliance required in the schedule for compliance, and
                        dates when such activities, milestones, or compliance were
                        achieved; and

                 V.C.16.d.(ii) An explanation of why any dates in the schedule of
                        compliance were not or will not be met, and any preventive
                        or corrective measures adopted.

           V.C.16.e.    Requirements for compliance certification with terms and
                 conditions contained in the permit, including emission limitations,
                 standards, or work practices. Permits shall include each of the
                 following:

                 V.C.16.e.(i)   The frequency (which shall not be less than annually
                        or such more frequent periods as specified in the applicable



                                                                                     215
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                        requirement or by the Division) of submission of compliance
                        certifications;

                 V.C.16.e.(ii) In accordance with Sections V.C.4. through V.C.7. of
                        this Part C, a means of monitoring the compliance of the
                        source with its emissions limitations, standards and work
                        practices;

                 V.C.16.e.(iii) A requirement that the compliance certification include
                        the following:

                        V.C.16.e.(iii)(A)      The identification of each permit term
                               and condition that is the basis of the certification;

                        V.C.16.e.(iii)(B)      The compliance status;

                        V.C.16.e.(iii)(C)      Whether compliance was continuous or
                               intermittent;

                        V.C.16.e.(iii)(D)      The method(s) used for determining the
                               compliance status of the source, currently and over
                               the reporting period, consistent with Sections V.C.4.
                               through V.C.7. of this Part C; and whether the data
                               collection using the methods referenced for
                               compliance certification provide continuous or
                               intermittent data; and

                        V.C.16.e.(iii)(E)      Such other facts as the Division may
                               require to determine the compliance status of the
                               source.

                 V.C.16.e.(iv) A requirement that all compliance certifications shall
                        be submitted to the Administrator as well as to the Division.
                        This requirement shall not apply to sources subject to the
                        operating permit requirements solely due to state only
                        conditions pursuant to the state Act;




                                                                                       216
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                     V.C.16.e.(v) Any additional requirements for compliance
                            assurance monitoring and compliance certification;

                     V.C.16.e.(vi) Such other provisions as the Division may require.

       V.C.17.       If a source is required to develop and register a risk management
              plan pursuant to Section 112(r) of the Federal Act, the permit shall only
              refer to such plan and state the source's compliance with such registration
              requirement. The content of the risk management plan will not be
              incorporated as a permit term.

V.D.   The permit shield shall extend to applicable requirements that are included and
       specifically identified in the permit. Upon request, the Division shall include in the
       permit a determination identifying specific requirements that do not apply to the
       source. The source shall specify in its permit application for such a determination
       the requirements as to which the determination is requested. The permit shall
       state that the permit shield applies to any requirements so identified. A request
       for a determination to extend the shield to requirements deemed applicable to the
       source may be made either in the original permit application or in a subsequent
       application for a permit modification.

V.E.   If the Division denies a permit, imposes conditions on a permit that are contested
       by the applicant, revokes a permit, or requires a permit from a source that may
       qualify for an exemption, the applicant or owner or operator of the source may
       request a hearing before the Commission in accordance with the Commission’s
       Procedures for Adjudications. The request for a hearing must be filed with the
       Commission within thirty days after the issuance of the permit, denial or
       revocation. The hearing shall be held in accordance with Colorado Revised
       Statute Sections 25-7-119 and 24-4-105 and the Commission’s Procedures for
       Adjudications.

V.F.   The Division shall submit to the Administrator a copy of each permit application
       (including any application for permit modification), each proposed permit, and
       each final operating permit.




                                                                                          217
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VI.    Public Participation Requirements
VI.A. Except for modifications qualifying for administrative permit amendments, minor
       permit modification procedures and operational flexibility provisions, as described
       in Sections X., XI., and XII. of this Part C, Sections III. and IV. of Part A, and
       except for applications for coverage under general operating permits as
       described in Section VIII. of this Part C, all permit proceedings, including initial
       permit issuance, significant modifications, re-openings and renewals, and are
       subject to public notice, comment and opportunity for public hearing
       requirements. A minor source voluntarily applying for an operating permit is not
       subject to the public participation requirements of this Part C unless the source is
       required to have a federally enforceable emission limitation to be considered a
       (synthetic) minor source. Minor sources that are not synthetic minors and major
       sources of Colorado-only Hazardous Air Pollutants subject to the operating
       permit requirements solely due to state-only conditions shall be subject to the
       public participation requirements where warranted in accordance with the
       provisions of Part B of this Regulation Number 3.

VI.B. The Division shall, within fifteen calendar days after the preparation of the
       preliminary analysis, cause public notice of the application to be published in a
       newspaper of general distribution in the area in which the proposed project or
       activity is or will be located or in a State publication designed to give general
       public notice, and by such other means if necessary to assure notice to the
       affected public, which may include posting of such notice on the publicly
       accessible portion of the Division’s web site. The Division will provide a copy of
       the preliminary analysis and application, or information about how to access
       digital versions of these documents on a publicly accessible website, to the
       county clerk for each county in which the source is or will be located. Documents
       provided directly to the county clerk may be in digital or hard copy format. The
       Division will send written or electronic notice to the applicant, to persons
       requesting notice of permit applications that are subject to public notice
       requirements, and to affected states. Electronic notice may include email
       notification to persons on an email list developed and maintained by the Division.


                                                                                            218
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     The newspaper notice or other State publication shall contain the information
     listed below in VI.B.1. through VI.B.9. The Division’s web site notice shall contain
     all the following information in Sections VI.B.1. through VI.B.15.:

     VI.B.1.       The name and address of the permittee;

     VI.B.2.       The name and address of the affected facility;

     VI.B.3.       The Division's name and address;

     VI.B.4.       The activity or activities proposed in the permit application;

     VI.B.5.       The emissions change involved in any permit modification;

     VI.B.6.       The name, address, and telephone number of a Division staff
            contact (or an email or website address) from whom interested persons
            may obtain additional information, including copies of the permit draft, the
            application, all relevant supporting materials, the compliance plan, the
            monitoring and compliance certification report, and all other materials
            available to the Division that are relevant to its permit decision;

     VI.B.7.       Information regarding scheduling of any public comment hearing if
            one is requested;

     VI.B.8.       That the Division will receive and consider public comments for
            thirty calendar days after such publication;

     VI.B.9.       The Division's preliminary determination of approval, conditional
            approval, or disapproval of the application;

     VI.B.10.      That any interested person may submit a written request for a
            public comment hearing to be held by the Commission to receive
            comments regarding the concerns listed in Sections VI.B.11. through
            VI.B.15., the sufficiency of the preliminary analysis, and whether the
            Division should approve or deny the permit application. Any written
            request for a public comment hearing must be submitted to the Division
            within thirty days of publication;




                                                                                       219
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             VI.B.10.a.      Written requests for a public comment hearing shall be
                    directed to the Air Pollution Control Division's office at 4300 Cherry
                    Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530;

             VI.B.10.b.      Requests shall: (i) identify the individual or group applying;
                    (ii) state his or her address and phone number; (iii) state the
                    reasons for the request; (iv) state the manner in which the person is
                    affected by the proceedings; and (v) provide an explanation of why
                    the person's interests are not already adequately represented.

      VI.B.11.      That comments concerning the ability of the proposed activity to
             comply with applicable requirements are solicited from any interested
             person;

      VI.B.12.      That comments are solicited on the air quality impacts of the source
             or modification;

      VI.B.13.      That comments are solicited on alternatives to the source or
             modification;

      VI.B.14.      That comments are solicited on the control technology required;

      VI.B.15.      That comments are being solicited on any other appropriate air
             quality considerations.

VI.C. Within fifteen calendar days after the preparation of the preliminary analysis for
      those applications subject to the requirements of this Part C, the Division shall
      forward to the applicant written notice of the applicant's right to a public comment
      hearing with respect to the application pursuant to Section VII. of the
      Commission’s Procedural Rules.

VI.D. A public comment hearing request pursuant to Section VI.B. of this Part C must
      be transmitted by the Division to the Commission, along with the complete permit
      application, the preliminary analysis, the draft permit, and any written comments
      received by the Division within five days after the end of the thirty-day comment
      period. At least thirty days prior to the date set for the public comment hearing,
      the notice of public comment hearing, the preliminary analysis and the draft


                                                                                         220
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       permit shall be posted on the Division’s web site. No substantive revisions shall
       be made to the draft permit during the thirty days prior to the public comment
       hearing. The applicant may submit, within ten days following the close of the
       public comment period, a response to any comments made. Nothing herein shall
       impede the Division's ability to meet required processing timeframes or other
       required time periods contained in this regulation.

VI.E. The Commission shall hold a public comment hearing within sixty days of its
       receipt of the request for a hearing pursuant to Section VI.B. or VI.C. of this Part
       C, unless such greater time is agreed to by the applicant and the Division. The
       Division shall appear at the public comment hearing in order to present the
       permit application. At least thirty days prior to such hearing, notice thereof shall
       be mailed by the Commission to the applicant, and to any interested person who
       submitted a request for a public hearing, printed in a newspaper of general
       distribution in the area of the proposed source or modification, and submitted for
       public review with the county clerk for each county in which the source or
       modification is or will be located.

VI.F. The Division shall maintain a record of the commenter and of the issues raised
       during the public comment and public hearing process for a period of five years.

VI.G. The Division shall notify the Administrator and any affected state, in writing, of
       any refusal to accept all recommendations for the proposed permit that the
       affected state submitted during the public or affected state review period, as well
       as reasons for such refusal.

VI.H. If the Administrator does not object in writing to the issuance of any proposed
       permit within forty-five days of receipt of the proposed permit, any person may
       petition the Administrator within sixty days of expiration of the Administrator’s
       forty-five day review period to make such objection. Any such petition shall be
       based only on objections to the permit that were raised with reasonable
       specificity during the public comment period as provided for in Section VI.B. of
       this Part C, unless the petitioner demonstrates that it was impracticable to raise




                                                                                           221
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        such objections within that period, or unless the grounds for such objection arose
        after such period

        VI.H.1.       A petition for review does not stay the effectiveness of a permit or
               its requirements if the permit was issued after the end of the forty-five day
               review period and prior to an U.S. EPA objection.

        VI.H.2.       If, pursuant to a petition filed under this Section VI.H., the U.S. EPA
               objects to the issuance of a permit prior to its issuance, the Division shall
               not issue the permit until the U.S. EPA's objection has been resolved.

        VI.H.3.       If, pursuant to a petition filed under this Section VI.H., the U.S. EPA
               objects to the issuance of a permit after it has been issued by the Division,
               the Administrator may modify, terminate, or revoke such permit and the
               Division may thereafter issue only a revised permit that satisfies the U.S.
               EPA’s objection.

        VI.H.4.       In no event will any proceeding under this Section VI.H. cause a
               source to be in violation of the requirement to have submitted a timely and
               complete application.

VII.    REPEALED
VIII.   General Operating Permits
VIII.A. The Division may, after notice and opportunity for public participation provided
        under Section VI. of this Part C, issue a general permit covering numerous
        similar sources that would otherwise be required to obtain an operating permit
        pursuant to this Part C. Any general permit shall comply with all requirements
        applicable to other operating permits and shall identify criteria by which sources
        may qualify for the general permit. For sources that qualify, the Division shall
        grant the conditions and terms of the general permit. Notwithstanding the permit
        shield, a source shall be subject to enforcement action for operation without an
        operating permit if the source is later determined not to qualify for the conditions
        and terms of the general permit. General permits are not authorized for affected
        sources under the acid rain program unless otherwise provided in regulations



                                                                                           222
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act. A general permit may be issued for
       the following purposes:

       VIII.A.1.     To establish terms and conditions to implement applicable
              requirements for a source category;

       VIII.A.2.     To establish terms and conditions to implement applicable
              requirements in lieu of reopening the permit to incorporate additional
              applicable requirements pursuant to Section XIII of this Part C;

       VIII.A.3.     To establish terms and conditions for new requirements that apply
              to sources with existing permits, so long as no terms or conditions of the
              existing permit are being violated;

       VIII.A.4.     To establish federally enforceable caps on emissions from sources
              in a specified category.

       VIII.A.5.     The Division may issue a general permit if it finds that:

              VIII.A.5.a.   There are several permittees, permit applicants, or potential
                     permit applicants who have the same or substantially similar
                     operations, emissions, activities, or facilities;

              VIII.A.5.b.   The permittees, permit applicants, or potential permit
                     applicants emit the same type of regulated air pollutants;

              VIII.A.5.c.   The operations, emissions, activities, or facilities are subject
                     to the same or similar standards, limitations, and operating
                     requirements; and

              VIII.A.5.d.   The operations, emissions, activities, or facilities are subject
                     to the same or similar monitoring, record keeping, and reporting
                     requirements.

VIII.B. A general permit developed under this section shall identify criteria by which
       sources may qualify for the general permit. After a general permit has been
       developed, any eligible source may submit an application to be covered under
       the permit.



                                                                                         223
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VIII.C. An application for coverage under a general permit shall identify the source and
       provide information sufficient to demonstrate that it falls within the source
       category covered by the general permit, together with all information necessary
       to determine qualification for, and to assure compliance with, the general permit
       including a compliance plan in accordance with Section III.C.8. of this Part C.

VIII.D. A final action approving a request for coverage under a general permit shall not
       be subject to judicial review. A source may seek judicial review of a final action
       denying coverage under a general permit.

VIII.E. If some, but not all, of a source's operations, activities, and emissions are eligible
       for coverage under one or more general permits, the source may apply for and
       receive coverage under the general permits for the operations, activities, and
       emissions that are so eligible. If the source is required under Section II. of this
       Part C to obtain an operating permit addressing the remainder of its operations,
       activities, and emissions, it may apply for, and receive, an operating permit that
       addresses specifically those items not covered by general permits. In such a
       case, the source's operating permit shall identify all operations, activities, and
       emissions that are subject to general permits and incorporate those general
       permits by reference.

VIII.F. Sources that would qualify for a general permit must apply to the Division for
       coverage under the terms of the general permit or must apply for an operating
       permit under Section III. of this Part C. without repeating the public participation
       procedures required under Section VI. of this Part C, the Division may grant a
       source's request for authorization to operate under a general permit. Such a
       grant shall not be a final permit action for purposes of judicial review.

VIII.G. Upon granting of the general permit by the Division, the source must keep a copy
       of the permit on-site at all times.

VIII.H. A general operating permit shall not be issued to a major source where issuance
       of a general permit would cause a violation of any applicable requirement in any
       other operating permit held by the source, or where issuance of a general




                                                                                            224
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      operating permit operates to allow the source to avoid a modification under Title I
      of the Federal Act.

VIII.I. A source may commence operations under the general operating permit sixty
      days after submitting its application for a general operating permit unless notified
      by the Division within that time period that additional information is required to
      determine whether the source qualifies for a general operating permit. Nothing
      herein precludes the Division from requesting additional information after sixty
      days have elapsed since the source's submission of a general operating permit
      application.

VIII.J. The application shield shall become effective upon the source's submission of a
      complete application, in accordance with Section II.B. of this Part C.

VIII.K. The permit shield shall become effective upon issuance of the general operating
      permit by the Division.

VIII.L. The general operating permits, as developed by the Division, shall be required to
      undergo review by the Administrator, affected states and the public, as set forth
      in Sections V.B., VI., and IX. of this Part C every five years.

IX.   Review by Affected States
IX.A. The Division shall give notice of each draft-operating permit to any affected state
      on or before the time that the Division provides public notice under Section VI. of
      this Part C, except where the requirements for timing of notices are different
      pursuant to Sections X., X.I., and XII. of this Part C.

IX.B. The Division shall notify the U.S. EPA and any affected state in writing of any
      refusal by the Division to accept all recommendations for the proposed permit
      that the affected state submitted during the public or affected state review period.
      Said notice will include the Division's reasons for not accepting any such
      recommendation. The Division is not required to accept recommendations that
      are not based on applicable requirements.




                                                                                           225
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

X.     Minor Permit Modification Procedures
X.A.   Minor permit modification procedures may be used only for those permit
       modifications that:

       X.A.1. Do not violate any applicable requirement;

       X.A.2. Do not involve significant changes to existing monitoring, reporting, or
              record keeping requirements in a permit;

       X.A.3. Do not require or change a case-by-case determination of an emission
              limitation or other standard or a source-specific determination for
              temporary sources of ambient impacts, or a visibility or increment analysis;

       X.A.4. Do not seek to establish or change a permit term or condition for which
              there is no corresponding underlying applicable requirement and that the
              source has assumed to avoid an applicable requirement to which the
              source would otherwise be subject. Such terms and conditions include:

              X.A.4.a.        A federally enforceable emissions cap assumed to avoid
                     classification as a modification under any provision of Title I of the
                     Federal Act, including but not limited to modifications under Part 2
                     of the state Act (prevention of significant deterioration), Part 3 of the
                     state Act (attainment), or New Source Performance Standards
                     (Regulation Number 6);

              X.A.4.b.        An alternative emissions limit approved pursuant to
                     regulations promulgated under Colorado Revised Statute Section
                     25-7-109.3 or Section 112(i)(5) of the federal Act (Regulation
                     Number 8);

       X.A.5. Are excepted from the definition of permit modification in Section I.A.3. of
              Part C.

       X.A.6. Are not otherwise required by the Division to be processed as a significant
              modification.




                                                                                          226
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

X.B.   Notwithstanding Sections X.A.5.and XI. (group processing criteria), minor permit
       modification procedures may be used for permit modifications involving the use
       of economic incentives, marketable permits, emissions trading, and other
       approved approaches, to the extent that such minor permit modification
       procedures are otherwise provided for in the state implementation plan
       promulgated pursuant to the state Act.

X.C.   An application for a minor permit modification shall be prepared on forms
       supplied by the Division.

X.D.   Applications shall meet the requirements of an application for an operating permit
       as set forth in Commission Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section III., and be
       signed by a responsible official. The applicant shall furnish all information and
       data required by the Division to evaluate the minor permit modification
       application, and shall include the following:

       X.D.1. A description of the change, the emissions resulting from the change, and
              any new applicable requirements that will apply if the change occurs;

       X.D.2. The sources suggested draft permit;

       X.D.3. Certification by a responsible official that the proposed modification meets
              the criteria for use of minor permit modification procedures and a request
              that such procedures be used; and

       X.D.4. Completed forms supplied by the Division for the Division to use to notify
              the Administrator and affected states.

       X.D.5. Data necessary to allow the Division to determine whether the source
              complies with:

              X.D.5.a.      All applicable emission control regulations;

              X.D.5.b.      Applicable regulations for the control of hazardous air
                     pollutants;

              X.D.5.c.             Requirements of the nonattainment and attainment
                     programs (Sections V. and VI. of Part D of this regulation); and



                                                                                           227
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              X.D.5.d.       Any applicable ambient air quality standards and all
                     applicable regulations. When the data includes modeling, the model
                     used shall be an appropriate one given the topography,
                     meteorology, and other characteristics of the region, which the
                     source will impact;

       X.D.6. If Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) have not been previously filed, a new Air
              Pollutant Emission Notice(s) shall be submitted in accordance with Part A,
              Section II.

X.E.   An application for a minor permit modification will not be deemed to be complete
       until all information and data (including any required ambient air impact analysis
       in accordance with Section VIII. of Part A) required to evaluate the application
       have been submitted to the Division.

X.F.   Within five working days of receipt of a complete minor permit modification
       application, the Division shall send a copy of the notice completed pursuant to
       Section X.D.4., to the Administrator.

X.G. Within five working days of receipt of a complete minor permit modification
       application, the Division shall send a copy of the notice completed pursuant to
       Section X.D.4., to affected states. Notice to affected states shall not be required
       for minor sources that voluntarily apply for an operating permit to obtain the
       operational flexibility set forth in this Part C. The Division shall notify the
       Administrator and any affected state of any refusal by the Division to accept all
       recommendations for the proposed revised permit under the minor permit
       modification procedures that the affected state submitted during its review period.
       The Division shall include in such notice its reasons for not accepting any such
       recommendation. The Division is not required to accept recommendations that
       are not based on applicable requirements under the state or Federal Act. Notice
       to affected states and to the Administrator is not required for minor modifications
       involving state only conditions.




                                                                                          228
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

X.H.   Within ninety calendar days of receipt of a complete application for minor permit
       modification, or fifteen calendar days after the end of the Administrator's forty five
       day review period, whichever is later, the Division shall:

       X.H.1. Issue the minor permit modification as proposed;

       X.H.2. Deny the minor permit modification application;

       X.H.3. Determine that the requested modification does not meet the minor permit
              modification criteria and should be reviewed under the significant
              modification procedures; or

       X.H.4. Revise the draft minor permit modification and transmit to the
              Administrator the new proposed minor permit modification as required in
              this Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.B.5.

X.I.   A source shall be allowed to make the changes proposed in its application for
       minor permit modification immediately after it files such application. If the source
       elects to make such changes, and until the Division issues its final determination
       in accordance with Sections X.H.1. through X.H.4., the source must comply with
       both the applicable requirements governing the change and the proposed permit
       terms and conditions. During this time, the source does not need to comply with
       existing permit terms and conditions it seeks to modify, but if the source fails to
       comply with its proposed permit terms and conditions during this period, the
       existing permit terms and conditions it seeks to modify shall be fully enforceable
       by the Division.

X.J.   The permit shield shall not extend to minor permit modifications.

X.K.   A permit modification for purposes of the acid rain portion of a permit shall be
       governed by regulations promulgated under Title IV of the Federal Act, found at
       Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 72.

XI.    Procedures for Group Processing of Minor Permit Modification
Applications
XI.A. Group processing of applications for modifications eligible for minor permit
       modification processing may be used only for those permit modifications that:


                                                                                          229
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      XI.A.1.       Meet the requirements of Part C, Sections X.A.1. through X.A.6. for
             minor permit modification procedures; and

      XI.A.2.       That collectively is below the lowest threshold level as set forth:

             XI.A.2.a.     Ten percent of the emissions allowed by the permit for the
                    emissions unit for which the change is requested; or

             XI.A.2.b.     Twenty percent of the applicable definition of major source;
                    or

             XI.A.2.c.     Five tons per year, whichever is less.

XI.B. An application shall be filed with the Division for each change the source
      proposes to make, describing the change and the new emissions resulting from
      the change and notifying the Division that the source intends to request group
      processing of such minor modification applications in accordance with Section
      XI.C.4. An application for group processing of minor permit modifications shall be
      prepared on forms supplied by the Division.

XI.C. Applications shall meet the requirements of an application for an operating permit
      as set forth in Commission Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section III., and be
      signed by a responsible official. The applicant shall furnish all information and
      data (including any required ambient air impact analysis in accordance with
      Section VIII. of Part A of this regulation) required by the Division to evaluate the
      minor permit modification application and shall include the following:

      XI.C.1.       A description of the change, the emissions resulting from the
             change, and any new applicable requirements that will apply if the change
             occurs;

      XI.C.2.       The sources suggested draft permit;

      XI.C.3.       Certification by a responsible official that the proposed modification
             meets the criteria for use of group processing procedures and a request
             that such procedures be used;




                                                                                          230
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      XI.C.4.       A list of the source's other pending applications awaiting group
             processing, and a determination of whether the requested modification,
             aggregated with these other applications, equals or exceeds the threshold
             set under Sections XI.A.2.a. through XI.A.2.c. of this Part C;

      XI.C.5.       Certification by a responsible official that the source has notified the
             U.S. EPA of the proposed modification. Such notification need only contain
             a brief description of the requested modification;

      XI.C.6.       Copies of Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) on file with the Division
             indicating production/process rates for which the operating permit is to be
             evaluated, or, if Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) have not been previously
             filed, a new Air Pollutant Emission Notice(s) shall be submitted in
             accordance with Part A, Section II. The Air Pollutant Emission Notice fee
             will not be charged for submission of copies of current Air Pollutant
             Emission Notice(s) previously filed with the Division.

      XI.C.7.       Completed forms for the permitting authority to use to notify the
             Administrator and affected states. Notice to affected states is not required
             for minor sources voluntarily applying for an operating permit to obtain the
             operational flexibility set forth in this Part C. Notice to affected states and
             the Administrator is not required for group processing of minor
             modifications involving state only conditions.

      XI.C.8.       As provided for in the state implementation plan, minor permit
             modifications made pursuant to this Section XI. will not trigger the
             procedural requirements otherwise applicable for modifications pursuant
             to Part B of this regulation.

XI.D. On a quarterly basis, or within five business days of receipt of an application
      demonstrating that the aggregate of a source's pending applications equals or
      exceeds the thresholds set forth in Section XI.A.2., whichever is earlier, the
      Division shall promptly notify the Administrator and affected states. A source shall
      only be allowed to aggregate its increased emissions caused by changes made
      in accordance with this Section XI. during each five-year permit term, except that


                                                                                          231
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      any aggregation of emissions that equals or exceeds the thresholds set forth in
      Section A.2. shall trigger the procedural requirements set forth in this Section XI.
      All aggregation of emissions not addressed through the procedures set forth in
      this Section XI. shall be incorporated into the operating permit upon renewal.

      The Division shall promptly notify the Administrator and any affected state of any
      refusal by the Division to accept all recommendations for the proposed revised
      permit under the group processing of minor permit modifications that the affected
      state submitted during its review period. The Division shall include in such notice
      the reasons for not accepting any such recommendation. The Division is not
      required to accept recommendations that are not based on applicable
      requirements under the state or Federal Acts.

XI.E. Within one hundred and eighty calendar days of receipt of a complete application
      for group processing of minor permit modifications under this Section XI., or
      fifteen calendar days after the end of the Administrator's forty-five days’ review
      period, whichever is later, the Division shall:

      XI.E.1.       Issue the minor permit modification as proposed;

      XI.E.2.       Deny the minor permit modification application;

      XI.E.3.       Determine that the requested modifications do not meet the minor
             permit modification criteria and should be reviewed under the significant
             modification procedures; or

      XI.E.4.       Revise the draft minor permit modification and transmit to the
             Administrator the new proposed minor permit modification.

XI.F. A source shall be allowed to make the changes proposed in its application for
      group processing of minor permit modifications immediately after it files such
      application. If the source elects to make such changes, and until the Division
      issues its final determination in accordance with Sections XI.E.1. through XI.E.4.,
      the source must comply with both the applicable requirements governing the
      change and the proposed permit terms and conditions. During this time, the
      source does not need to comply with existing permit terms and conditions it



                                                                                       232
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       seeks to modify, but if the source fails to comply with its proposed permit terms
       and conditions during this period, the existing permit terms and conditions it
       seeks to modify shall be fully enforceable by the Division.

XI.G. The permit shield shall not extend to minor permit modifications made pursuant
       to the group processing procedures in this Section XI.

XII.   Operational Flexibility
XII.A. Section 502(b)(10) changes

       XII.A.1.      No permit revision is necessary for changes within a permitted
              facility, if the changes are accepted from the definition of modification in
              Part A, Section I.B.33. of this Regulation Number 3, and the changes do
              not exceed the emissions allowable under the permit, whether expressed
              therein as a rate of emissions or in the terms of total emissions, and
              provided that notice is provided to the Division as set forth in the following:

              XII.A.1.a.    For each such change, the facility shall provide the
                     Administrator and the Division with a minimum of seven days'
                     written notification in advance of the proposed changes. The notice
                     must be received by the Division no later than seven days in
                     advance of the proposed changes. The source, the Division, and
                     the Administrator shall attach each such notice to their copy of the
                     relevant permit;

              XII.A.1.b.    For each such change, the written notification required shall
                     include a brief description of the change within the permitted facility,
                     the date on which the change will occur, any change in emissions,
                     and any permit term or condition that is no longer applicable
                     because of the change;

              XII.A.1.c.    A source shall be allowed to make such change proposed in
                     its notice on the day following the last day of the advance notice
                     described in this section if the Division has not responded nor
                     objected to the proposed change on or before that day; and



                                                                                          233
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             XII.A.1.d.      The permit shield shall not apply to any changes made
                    pursuant to this section. If subsequent changes cause the facility's
                    operations and emissions to revert to those anticipated in the
                    operating permit, the permittee resumes compliance with the terms
                    and conditions of the permit, and has provided the Division and
                    Administrator with a minimum of seven days’ advance notice of
                    such changes in accordance with the provisions of Section
                    XII.A.1.a., the permit shield may be reinstated in accordance with
                    the terms and conditions stated in the operating permit.

      XII.A.2.      Changes made pursuant to this Section XII.A. shall be incorporated
             into the operating permit at the time of renewal, at which time the permit
             shield shall apply.

XII.B. Off Permit Changes

      No permit revision shall be necessary for changes within a permitted facility, not
      otherwise addressed or prohibited in the permit or in the provisions of this
      Section XII.B., governing off permit changes. This provision shall apply to
      changes, which are accepted from the definition of permit modification in Section
      I.A.3. of this Part C, or if such changes are subject to requirements of Title IV of
      the Federal Act (acid rain program). As provided for in the state implementation
      plan, changes made pursuant to this Section XII.B. shall not trigger the
      procedural requirements contained in Part B of this regulation for obtaining a
      construction permit.

      XII.B.1.      Each such change shall meet all applicable requirements and shall
             not violate any existing permit term or condition.

      XII.B.2.      The source must provide contemporaneous written notice to the
             permitting authority and the Administrator of each such change, except for
             changes that have been determined to be insignificant by the Commission
             pursuant to regulation. Such written notice shall describe each such
             change, including the date, any change in emissions, pollutants emitted,
             and any applicable requirement that would apply as a result of the change.


                                                                                        234
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

               A revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall be submitted in accordance
               with the provisions of Part A, Section II., along with the written notice
               required in this Section XII.B.2.

        XII.B.3.      The permit shield shall not apply to any such change made
               pursuant to this Section XII.B.

        XII.B.4.      The source shall keep a record describing changes made at the
               source that result in emissions of a regulated air pollutant subject to an
               applicable requirement, but not otherwise regulated under the permit, and
               the emissions resulting from those changes, including any other data
               necessary to show compliance with applicable ambient air quality
               standards.

        XII.B.5.      Changes made pursuant to this Section XII.B. shall be incorporated
               into the operating permit at the time of renewal.

XIII.   Reopening for Cause of Permits Issued Pursuant to Part C
XIII.A. A permit issued pursuant to Part C of this Commission Regulation Number 3,
        shall be reopened and revised under any of the following circumstances:

        XIII.A.1.     Additional applicable requirements become applicable to a major
               source with a remaining permit term of three or more years. Such
               reopening shall be completed no later than eighteen months after
               promulgation of the applicable requirement. No such reopening is required
               if the effective date of the requirement is later than the date on which the
               permit is due to expire, unless the original permit or any of its terms and
               conditions has been extended, or if a general permit is obtained to
               address the new requirement pursuant to Section VIII.A.2. of this Part C;

        XIII.A.2.     Additional requirements (including excess emissions requirements)
               become applicable to an affected source under the acid rain program.
               Upon approval by the Administrator, excess emissions offset plans shall
               be deemed to be incorporated into the permit;




                                                                                            235
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       XIII.A.3.     The Division or the Administrator determines that the permit
              contains a material mistake or that inaccurate statements were made in
              establishing the emissions standards or other terms or conditions of the
              permit;

       XIII.A.4.     The Division or the Administrator determines that the permit must
              be revised or revoked to assure compliance with the applicable
              requirements;

       XIII.A.5.     Permit reopening and reissuance shall be processed using the
              procedures set forth in Sections III., IV., and V. of this Part C for permit
              issuance and permit renewal;

       XIII.A.6.     Proceedings to reopen and reissue permits affect only those parts
              of the permit for which cause to reopen exists; and

       XIII.A.7.     Reopening under this section of Part C shall not be initiated before
              notice of such intent is provided to the source by the Division at least thirty
              days in advance of the date that the permit is to be reopened. The Division
              may provide a shorter time period within which to give notice in the case of
              an emergency.

XIII.B. The Division shall extend the permit shield to those parts of the permit that have
       been changed pursuant to the reopening and reissuance proceedings of Part C.

XIII.C. A source may choose to have its operating permit renewed during any
       proceeding for reopening the permit under this section, provided a complete
       application is submitted pursuant to Part C.

XIV.   Compliance Assurance Monitoring
The regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA listed in Section XIV.A.1., are hereby
incorporated by reference by the Commission and made a part of the Colorado
Commission regulations. Materials incorporated by reference are those in existence as
of the date indicated and do not include later amendments. The material incorporated
by reference is available for public inspection during regular business hours at the
Office of the Commission, located at 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado


                                                                                             236
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference is also available through the United
States Government Printing Office, online at www.gpo.gov/fdsys. Parties wishing to
inspect these materials should contact the Technical Secretary of the Commission,
located at the office of the Commission.

      XIV.A.1.      Air Pollution Control, Monitoring, Operating Permits, Reporting and
             Record Keeping Requirements: Compliance Assurance Monitoring, Code
             of Federal Regulations Title 40, Parts 64 and 70.6, October 22, 1997 (62
             FR 54900).

Air Pollution Control, Monitoring, Operating Permits, Reporting and Record keeping
Requirements: Compliance Assurance Monitoring, Code of Federal Regulations Title
40, Parts 64, 70.6 and 71.6, October 22, 1997 (62 FR 54900).




                                                                                     237
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

PART D       CONCERNING MAJOR STATIONARY SOURCE NEW SOURCE
REVIEW AND PREVENTION OF SIGNIFICANT DETERIORATION
I.     Applicability
I.A.   General Applicability

       I.A.1. This Part D shall apply to any new or existing major stationary source.

             Any new major stationary source or major modification, to which the
             requirements of this Part D apply, shall not begin actual construction in a
             nonattainment, attainment, or unclassifiable area unless a permit has
             been issued containing all applicable state and federal requirements.

       I.A.2. Except as otherwise provided in Section XV. of this Part D, and consistent
             with the definition of major modification (Section II.A.23. of this part), a
             project is a major modification for a regulated NSR pollutant if it causes
             two types of emissions increases - a significant emissions increase (as
             defined in Section II.A.45. of this part), and a significant net emissions
             increase (as defined in Sections II.A.27. and II.A.44. of this part). The
             project is not a major modification if it does not cause a significant
             emissions increase. If the project causes a significant emissions increase,
             then the project is a major modification only if it also results in a significant
             net emissions increase.

       I.A.3. The procedure for calculating (before beginning actual construction)
             whether a significant emissions increase (i.e., the first step of the process)
             will occur depends upon the type of emissions units being constructed or
             modified, according to Sections I.B.1. through I.B.3. of this part. The
             procedure for calculating (before beginning actual construction) whether a
             significant net emissions increase will occur at the major stationary source
             (i.e., the second step of the process) is contained in the definition of Net
             Emissions Increase (Section II.A.27. of this part). Regardless of any such
             preconstruction projections, a major modification results if the project
             causes a significant emissions increase and a significant net emissions
             increase.


                                                                                            238
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.B.   Applicability Tests

       I.B.1. Actual-to-projected-actual applicability test for projects that only involve
              existing emissions units. A significant emissions increase of a regulated
              NSR pollutant is projected to occur if the sum of the difference between
              the projected actual emissions (as defined in Section II.A.38. of this part)
              and the baseline actual emissions (as defined in Sections II.A.4.a. and
              II.A.4.b. of this part, as applicable), for each existing emissions unit,
              equals or exceeds the significant amount for that pollutant (as defined in
              Section II.A.44. of this part).

       I.B.2. Actual-to-potential test for projects that only involve construction of a new
              emissions unit(s). A significant emissions increase of a regulated NSR
              pollutant is projected to occur if the sum of the difference between the
              potential to emit (as defined in Section I.B.43. of Part A of this regulation)
              from each new emissions unit following completion of the project and the
              baseline actual emissions (as defined in Section II.A.4. of this part) of
              these units before the project equals or exceeds the significant amount for
              that pollutant (as defined in Section II.A.44. of this part).

       I.B.3. Hybrid test for projects that involve multiple types of emissions units.

              A significant emissions increase of a regulated NSR pollutant is projected
              to occur if the sum of the emissions increases for each emissions unit,
              using the methods specified in Sections I.B.1. through I.B.3. of this part as
              applicable with respect to each type of emissions unit, equals or exceeds
              the significant amount for that pollutant (as defined in Section II.A.44. of
              this part).

       I.B.4. An owner or operator of a major stationary source who conducts the
              actual-to-projected-actual test for a project that requires a minor permit
              modification in accordance with Section X. of Part C, requires a significant
              permit modification in accordance with Section I.A.3. of Part C, a
              modification as defined in Section I.B.33. of Part A or that requires a minor
              source permit under Part B shall submit a permit application including:


                                                                                           239
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.B.4.a.      All calculations and supporting documentation used to
                     determine baseline actual emissions of each emissions unit
                     affected by the project;

              I.B.4.b.      All calculations and supporting documentation used to
                     determine projected actual emissions of each existing emissions
                     unit affected by the project;

              I.B.4.c.      A determination of that portion of each existing unit’s
                     emissions following the project that the unit could have
                     accommodated during the consecutive twenty-four month period
                     used to establish the baseline actual emissions and that are
                     unrelated to the project, including any increased utilization due to
                     product demand growth; and,

              I.B.4.d.      Any other information requested by the Division that may be
                     needed to determine if a major modification will occur at each
                     emissions unit affected by the project. The information submitted in
                     accordance with Section I.B.4.a. through I.B.4.d., shall be
                     incorporated into an appendix to the major stationary source’s Title
                     V Operating permit or as a permit note in the construction permit.
                     The requirement that the owner or operator of a major stationary
                     source who conducts the actual-to-projected-actual test for a
                     project that requires a minor permit modification submit information
                     in accordance with Sections I.B.4.a. through I.B.4.d., as set out in
                     this Section I.B.4., shall not be federally enforceable and shall not
                     be incorporated into the state implementation plan.

I.C.   For any major stationary source requesting, or operating under, a Plant-wide
       Applicability Limitation (as defined in Section II.A.35.) for a regulated NSR
       pollutant, the major stationary source shall comply with the requirements of
       Section XV. of this part.




                                                                                        240
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

II.     Definitions
II.A.   The following definitions apply specifically to the provisions contained in this Part
        D.

        II.A.1. Actual Emissions

               The actual rate of emission of a regulated NSR pollutant from an
               emissions unit, determined as follows:

               II.A.1.a.      Actual emissions as of a particular date shall equal the
                      average rate, in tons per year, at which the unit actually emitted the
                      pollutant during a consecutive twenty-four month period that
                      precedes the particular date and is representative of normal unit
                      operation. A different period may be used if it is more representative
                      of normal unit operation. Actual emissions shall be calculated using
                      the unit’s actual operating hours, production rates, and types of
                      materials processed, stored or combusted or actual emission data
                      during the selected time period;

               II.A.1.b.      The Division may presume that source-specific allowable
                      emissions for the unit are equivalent to the actual emissions of the
                      unit only if actual emissions cannot be determined pursuant to
                      Section II.A.1.a.;

               II.A.1.c.      For any emissions unit that has not begun normal operations
                      on the particular date, actual emissions shall equal the potential to
                      emit of the unit on that date.

               II.A.1.d.      This definition shall not apply for calculating whether a
                      significant emissions increase has occurred, or for establishing a
                      PAL under Section XV. of Part D. Instead, Sections II.A.38. and
                      II.A.4. of this part shall apply for these purposes.

        II.A.2. Actuals PAL

               For a major stationary source, means a PAL based on the baseline actual
               emissions (as defined in Sections II.A.4.a. through II.A.4.d.) of all


                                                                                          241
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            emissions units (as defined in the Common Provisions regulation) at the
            source that emit or have the potential to emit the PAL pollutant. For a
            GHG-only source, actuals PAL means a PAL based on the baseline actual
            emissions (as defined in Sections II.A.4.e. and II.A.4.f.) of all emissions
            units (as defined in Section II.A.13.b.) at the source that emit or have the
            potential to emit GHGs.

     II.A.3. Air Quality Related Value

            Any value of an area that may be affected by a change in air quality.
            Examples include flora, fauna, soil, water, visibility, cultural, and odor.

     II.A.4. Baseline Actual Emissions

            The rate of emissions, in tons per year, of a regulated NSR pollutant.

            II.A.4.a.      For any existing electric utility steam generating unit (as
                   defined in Section II.A.14.), baseline actual emissions mean the
                   average rate, in tons per year, at which the unit actually emitted the
                   pollutant during any consecutive twenty-four-month period selected
                   by the owner or operator within the five-year period immediately
                   preceding when the owner or operator begins actual construction of
                   the project. The Division shall allow the use of a different time
                   period upon a determination that it is more representative of normal
                   source operation.

                   II.A.4.a.(i)    The average rate shall include fugitive emissions to
                           the extent quantifiable, and emissions associated with
                           startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.

                   II.A.4.a.(ii)   The average rate shall be adjusted downward to
                           exclude any non-compliant emissions that occurred while the
                           source was operating above any emission limitation that was
                           legally enforceable during the consecutive twenty-four month
                           period.




                                                                                          242
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.A.4.a.(iii)   For a regulated NSR pollutant, when a project
                          involves multiple emissions units, only one consecutive
                          twenty-four month period may be used to determine the
                          baseline actual emissions for the emissions units being
                          changed. A different consecutive twenty-four month period
                          can be used for each regulated NSR pollutant.

                  II.A.4.a.(iv)    The average rate shall not be based on any
                          consecutive twenty-four month period for which there is
                          inadequate information for determining annual emissions, in
                          tons per year, and for adjusting this amount if required by
                          Section II.A.4.a.(ii).

           II.A.4.b.      For an existing emissions unit (other than an electric utility
                  steam generating unit), baseline actual emissions means the
                  average rate, in tons per year, at which the emissions unit actually
                  emitted the pollutant during any consecutive twenty-four month
                  period selected by the owner or operator within the ten year period
                  immediately preceding either the date the owner or operator begins
                  actual construction of the project, or the date a complete permit
                  application is received by the Division for a permit required under
                  this Part D, except that the ten year period shall not include any
                  period earlier than November 15, 1990.

                  II.A.4.b.(i)     The average rate shall include fugitive emissions to
                          the extent quantifiable, and emissions associated with
                          startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.

                  II.A.4.b.(ii)    The average rate shall be adjusted downward to
                          exclude any non-compliant emissions that occurred while the
                          source was operating above an emission limitation that was
                          legally enforceable during the consecutive twenty-four month
                          period.




                                                                                        243
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.A.4.b.(iii)   The average rate shall be adjusted downward to
                          exclude any emissions that would have exceeded an
                          emission limitation with which the major stationary source
                          must currently comply, had the major stationary source been
                          required to comply with such limitations during the
                          consecutive twenty-four month period. However, if an
                          emission limitation is part of a maximum achievable control
                          technology standard contained in Part E of Regulation
                          Number 8, the baseline actual emissions need only be
                          adjusted if the State has taken credit for such emissions
                          reductions in an attainment demonstration or maintenance
                          plan.

                  II.A.4.b.(iv)    For a regulated NSR pollutant, when a project
                          involves multiple emissions units, only one consecutive
                          twenty-four month period must be used to determine the
                          baseline actual emissions for the emissions units being
                          changed. A different consecutive twenty-four month period
                          can be used for each regulated NSR pollutant.

                  II.A.4.b.(v)     The average rate shall not be based on any
                          consecutive twenty-four month period for which there is
                          inadequate information for determining annual emissions, in
                          tons per year, and for adjusting this amount if required under
                          Sections II.A.4.b.(ii) and II.A.4.b.(iii) of this part.

           II.A.4.c.      For a new emissions unit, the baseline actual emissions for
                  purposes of determining the emissions increase that will result from
                  the initial construction and operation of such unit shall equal zero;
                  and thereafter, for all other purposes, shall equal the unit's potential
                  to emit (as defined in Section I.B.43. of Part A of this regulation).

           II.A.4.d.      For a PAL for a major stationary source, the baseline actual
                  emissions shall be calculated for existing electric utility steam


                                                                                        244
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   generating units in accordance with the procedures contained in
                   Section II.A.4.a., for other existing emissions units in accordance
                   with the procedures contained in Section II.A.4.b., and for a new
                   emissions unit in accordance with the procedures contained in
                   Section II.A.4.c.

           II.A.4.e.        For a GHG PAL means the average rate, in tons per year
                   CO2e or tons per year GHG, as applicable, at which the emissions
                   unit actually emitted GHGs during any consecutive 24-month period
                   selected by the owner or operator within the 10-year period
                   immediately preceding either the date the owner or operator begins
                   construction of the project, or the date a complete permit
                   application is received by the Division for a permit required under
                   this Part D or by the Division for a permit required by a plan,
                   whichever is earlier.

           II.A.4.f.        For any existing electric utility steam generating unit (as
                   defined in Section II.A.14. of this part), baseline actual emissions
                   for a GHG PAL means the average rate, in tons per year CO2e or
                   tons per year GHG, at which the unit actually emitted the pollutant
                   during any consecutive twenty-four month period selected by the
                   owner or operator within the five year period immediately preceding
                   when the owner or operator begins actual construction of the
                   project. The Division shall allow the use of a different time period
                   upon a determination that it is more representative of normal
                   source operation.

                   II.A.4.f.(i)    The average rate shall include fugitive emissions to
                            the extent quantifiable, and emissions associated with
                            startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.

                   II.A.4.f.(ii)   The average rate shall be adjusted downward to
                            exclude any non-compliant emissions that occurred while the
                            source was operating above any emission limitation that was


                                                                                          245
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                           legally enforceable during the consecutive twenty-four-month
                           period.

                  II.A.4.f.(iii)   The average rate shall be adjusted downward to
                           exclude any emissions that would have exceeded an
                           emission limitation with which the stationary source must
                           currently comply, had such stationary source been required
                           to comply with such limitations during the consecutive 24-
                           month period.

                  II.A.4.f.(iv)    The average rate shall not be based on any
                           consecutive twenty-four month period for which there is
                           inadequate information for determining annual GHG
                           emissions and for adjusting this amount if required by
                           Sections II.A.4.a.(ii) and II.A.4.a.(iii).

     II.A.5. Baseline Area

           II.A.5.a.       Any intrastate area (and every part thereof) designated as
                  attainment or unclassifiable under Sections 107(d)(1)(A)(ii) or (iii) of
                  the Federal Act in which the major source or major modification
                  establishing the minor source baseline date would construct or
                  would have an air quality impact for the pollutant for which the
                  baseline date is established, as follows: equal to or greater than
                  one microgram/cubic meter (1 µg/m3) (annual average) for SO2,
                  NO2, or PM10; or equal to or greater than 0.3 µg/m3) (annual
                  average) for PM2.5.

           II.A.5.b.       Area redesignations under Section 107(d)(1)(A)(ii) or (iii) of
                  the Federal Act cannot intersect or be smaller than the area of
                  impact of any major stationary source or major modification that:

                  II.A.5.b.(i)     Establishes a minor source baseline date, or

                  II.A.5.b.(ii)    Is subject to this Part D, and would be constructed in
                           the same state as the state proposing the redesignation.



                                                                                       246
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.5.c.      Any baseline area established originally for the total
                  suspended particulate increments shall remain in effect and shall
                  apply for purposes of determining the amount of available PM10
                  increments, except that such baseline area shall not remain in
                  effect if the permit authority rescinds the corresponding minor
                  source baseline date in accordance with Section II.A.26.c.

     II.A.6. Baseline Concentration

           The ambient concentration level that exists in the baseline area at the time
           of the applicable minor source baseline date. A baseline concentration is
           determined for each pollutant for which a minor source baseline date is
           established and shall include:

           II.A.6.a.      The actual emissions representative of sources in existence
                  on the applicable minor source baseline date, except as otherwise
                  provided in this definition; and

           II.A.6.b.      The allowable emissions from major stationary sources that
                  commenced construction before the major source baseline date,
                  but were not in operation by the applicable minor source baseline
                  date.

           II.A.6.c.      The following will not be included in the baseline
                  concentration and will affect the applicable maximum allowable
                  increase(s):

                  II.A.6.c.(i)    Actual emissions from any major stationary source on
                          which construction commenced after the major source
                          baseline date; and

                  II.A.6.c.(ii)   Actual emission increases and decreases at any
                          stationary source occurring after the minor source baseline
                          date.

     II.A.7. Begin Actual Construction




                                                                                    247
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           Initiation of physical on-site construction activities on an emissions unit
           that are of a permanent nature. Such activities include, but are not limited
           to, installation of building supports and foundations, laying of underground
           pipe work, and construction of permanent storage structures. With respect
           to a change in the method of operation, this term refers to those on-site
           activities other than preparatory activities that mark the initiation of the
           change.

     II.A.8. Best Available Control Technology (BACT)

           An emission limitation (including a visible emissions standard) based on
           the maximum degree of reduction of each regulated NSR pollutant that
           would be emitted from any proposed major stationary source or major
           modification that the Division or Commission, on a case-by-case basis,
           taking into account energy, environmental, and economic impacts and
           other costs, determines is achievable for such source or modification
           through application of production processes or available methods,
           systems, and techniques, including fuel cleaning or treatment or
           innovative fuel combustion techniques for control of such pollutant. In no
           event shall application of the best available control technology result in
           emissions of any pollutant that would exceed emissions allowed by the
           applicable standards in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Parts
           60, 61 or 63 (Regulation Number 6, Part A, and Regulation Number 8,
           Parts A and E) as in effect on the effective date of this clause, but not
           including later amendments, unless such amendments are specifically
           incorporated by reference in accordance with the provisions of Colorado
           Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5). Information as to the availability
           of such standards may be obtained from the Director, Air Pollution Control
           Division, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300
           Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530.

           If the Division or Commission determines that technological or economic
           limitations on the application of measurement methodology to a particular



                                                                                          248
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            emissions unit would make the imposition of an emissions standard
            infeasible, it may instead prescribe designs, equipment, work practices,
            operational standards or combination thereof, to satisfy the requirement
            for the application of best available control technology. Such standard
            shall, to the degree possible, set forth the emissions reduction achievable
            by implementation of such design, equipment, work practice or operation
            and shall provide for compliance by means that achieve equivalent results.

     II.A.9. Clean Coal Technology

            Any technology, including technologies applied at the pre-combustion,
            combustion, or post-combustion stage, at a new or existing facility that will
            achieve significant reductions in air emissions of sulfur dioxide or oxides of
            nitrogen associated with the utilization of coal in the generation of
            electricity, or process steam which was not in widespread use as of
            November 15, 1990.

     II.A.10.      Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project

            A project using funds appropriated under the heading “Department of
            Energy-Clean Coal Technology,” up to a total amount of $2.5 billion for
            commercial demonstration of clean coal technology, or similar projects
            funded through appropriations for the U.S. EPA. The federal contribution
            for a qualifying project shall be at least twenty percent of the total cost of
            the demonstration project.

     II.A.11.      Complete

            In reference to an application for a major NSR permit, an application that
            contains all the information necessary for processing the application.
            Designating an application complete for purposes of permit processing
            does not preclude the Division from requesting or accepting any additional
            information.




                                                                                        249
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.11.a.     At a minimum, a complete application for a permit to
                  construct a major source or major modification subject to the
                  requirements of this Part D shall include:

                  II.A.11.a.(i)   All monitoring data required pursuant to this
                          regulation and an analysis of ambient air quality in
                          accordance with Section VI.A.3. of this part;

                  II.A.11.a.(ii) The impact analysis required by Section VI.A.2. of this
                          part, a written summary of the data inputs to the model, and
                          a topographic presentation of the resultant concentrations of
                          each pollutant modeled for each applicable ambient
                          standard or Prevention of Significant Deterioration increment
                          within the impact area of the source;

                  II.A.11.a.(iii) A report of the regulatory status of the model pursuant
                          to Section VIII.A.1. of Part A;

                  II.A.11.a.(iv) A demonstration that the proposed technological
                          system of continuous emission reduction that is to be used
                          will enable such source to comply continuously with the
                          standards of performance that are to apply to such source
                          and that the emission inputs to the model for the impact
                          analysis are equivalent to the emissions allowed by such
                          standards of performance;

                  II.A.11.a.(v) A description of the devices or systems that will be
                          installed to monitor the emissions of each pollutant that will
                          be emitted in significant amounts, maintaining such devices
                          or systems, and the schedule and format for reporting the
                          results of such emission monitoring to the Division;

                  II.A.11.a.(vi) The additional impact analysis required by Section
                          VI.A.6. of this part, any demonstration of facts needed to




                                                                                       250
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                          establish a claim by the applicant to qualify for any
                          exemption or exclusion under Section VI.B. of this part;

                   II.A.11.a.(vii) A schedule of construction in accordance with Section
                          III.G.2. of Part B;

                   II.A.11.a.(viii) An additional copy of the application for the federal
                          land manager of each affected Class 1 area, for the U.S.
                          EPA, for the county Commissioner, and for public notice.
                          Two additional copies shall be submitted for interested public
                          groups.

     II.A.12.      Construction

            Any physical change or change in the method of operation (including
            fabrication, erection, installation, demolition, or modification of an
            emissions unit) that would result in a change in actual emissions

     II.A.13.      Emissions Unit

            II.A.13.a.    Any part of a stationary source that emits or would have the
                   potential to emit any regulated NSR pollutant and includes an
                   electric steam-generating unit as defined in Section II.A.14. of this
                   part. For purposes of this Part D, there are two types of emissions
                   units described in Section II.A.13.a.(i) and II.A.13.a.(ii).

                   II.A.13.a.(i)   A new emissions unit is any emissions unit that is (or
                          will be) newly constructed and that has existed for less than
                          two years from the date such emissions unit first operated.

                   II.A.13.a.(ii) An existing emissions unit is any emissions unit that
                          does not meet the requirements in Section II.A.13.a.(i). A
                          replacement unit (as defined in Section II.A.41. of this part)
                          is an existing emissions unit.

            II.A.13.b.    With respect to GHGs means any part of a stationary source
                   that emits or has the potential to emit GHGs. For purposes of
                   Section XV., there are two types of emissions units:


                                                                                        251
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   II.A.13.b.(i)   A new emissions unit is any emissions unit that is (or
                          will be) newly constructed and that has existed for less than
                          two years from the date such emissions unit first operated.

                   II.A.13.b.(ii) An existing emissions unit is any emissions unit that
                          does not meet the requirements in Section II.A.13.b.(i).

     II.A.14.      Electric Utility Steam Generating Unit

            Any steam electric generating unit that is constructed for the purpose of
            supplying more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and
            more than twenty-five megawatts electrical output to any utility power
            distribution system for sale. Any steam supplied to a steam distribution
            system for the purpose of providing steam to a steam-electric generator
            that would produce electrical energy for sale is also considered in
            determining the electrical energy output capacity of the affected facility.

     II.A.15.      Federal Land Manager (FLM)

            With respect to any lands of the United States, the secretary of the
            department with authority over such lands.

     II.A.16.      GHG-only source

            Any existing stationary source that emits or has the potential to emit
            GHGs in the amount equal to or greater than the amount of GHGs on a
            mass basis that would be sufficient for a new source to trigger permitting
            requirements for GHGs under Part D, Section II.A.25. and the amount of
            GHGs on a CO2e basis that would be sufficient for a new source to trigger
            permitting requirements for GHGs under Part A, Section I.B.53. at the time
            the PAL permit is being issued, but does not emit or have the potential to
            emit any other non-GHG regulated NSR pollutant at or above the
            applicable major source threshold. A GHG-only source may only obtain a
            PAL for GHG emissions under Part D, Section XV.

     II.A.17.      High Terrain




                                                                                          252
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            Any area having an elevation nine hundred feet or more above the base of
            the stack of a source.

     II.A.18.      Hydrocarbon Combustion Flare

            Either a flare used to comply with an applicable new source performance
            standard or maximum achievable control technology standard (including
            uses of flares during startup, shutdown, or malfunction permitted under
            such standard), or a flare that serves to control emissions of waste
            streams comprised predominately of hydrocarbons and containing no
            more than 230 mg/dscm hydrogen sulfide.

     II.A.19.      Innovative Control Technology

            Any system of air pollution control that has not been adequately
            demonstrated in practice, but would have a substantial likelihood of
            achieving greater continuous emissions reduction than any control system
            in current practice or of achieving at least comparable reductions at lower
            cost in terms of energy, economics, or non-air quality environmental
            impacts.

     II.A.20.      Low Terrain

            Any area other than high terrain.

     II.A.21.      Lowest Achievable Emissions Rate (LAER)

            For any source, the more stringent rate of emissions based on the
            following:

            II.A.21.a.   The most stringent emission limit contained in any state
                   implementation plan for such class or category of stationary source,
                   unless the owner or operator of the proposed stationary source
                   demonstrates that such limits are not achievable; or

            II.A.21.b.   The most stringent emission limitation that is achieved in
                   practice by such class or category of source. In no event shall
                   application of the term permit a proposed new or modified



                                                                                      253
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   stationary source to emit any pollutant in excess of the amount
                   allowable under an applicable new source performance standard
                   (Regulation Number 6).

     II.A.22.      Major Emissions Unit

            II.A.22.a.    Any emissions unit that emits or has the potential to emit one
                   hundred tons per year or more of the PAL pollutant in an attainment
                   area; or

            II.A.22.b.    Any emissions unit that emits or has the potential to emit the
                   PAL pollutant in an amount that is equal to or greater than the major
                   stationary source threshold (as defined in Section II.A.25. of this
                   part) for the PAL pollutant for nonattainment areas.

            II.A.22.c.    For a GHG PAL issued on a CO2e basis, any emissions unit
                   that emits or has the potential to emit equal to or greater than the
                   amount of GHGs on a CO2e basis that would be sufficient for a
                   new source to trigger permitting requirements under paragraph Part
                   A, Section I.B.53. at the time the PAL permit is being issued.

     II.A.23.      Major Modification

            Any physical change in or change in the method of operation of a major
            stationary source that would result in a significant emissions increase of a
            regulated NSR pollutant and a significant net emissions increase of that
            pollutant from the major stationary source.

            II.A.23.a.    Any significant emissions increase from any emissions units
                   or net emissions increase at a major stationary source that is
                   significant for volatile organic compounds or NOx shall be
                   considered significant for ozone.

            II.A.23.b.    In the Denver Metropolitan PM10 nonattainment area, any
                   net emission increase that is significant for sulfur dioxide or
                   nitrogen oxides shall be considered significant for PM10.




                                                                                         254
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.23.c.    A physical change or change in the method of operation
                  shall not include routine maintenance, repair, and replacement.

           II.A.23.d.    A physical change or change in the method of operation,
                  unless previously limited by any enforceable or federally
                  enforceable permit condition that was established after January 6,
                  1975 for sources in attainment or unclassifiable areas and after
                  December 21, 1976 for sources in nonattainment areas, shall not
                  include:

                  II.A.23.d.(i)   Use of an alternative fuel or raw material by reason of
                         an order in effect under Sections 2(a) and (b) of the Federal
                         Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974
                         (or any superseding legislation), a prohibition under the
                         Power Plant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 (or any
                         superseding legislation) or by reason of a natural gas
                         curtailment plan in effect pursuant to the Federal Power Act;

                  II.A.23.d.(ii) Use of an alternative fuel because of an order or rule
                         under Section 125 of the Federal Act;

                  II.A.23.d.(iii) Use of an alternative fuel at a steam-generating unit
                         to the extent that the fuel is generated from municipal solid
                         waste;

                  II.A.23.d.(iv) Use of an alternative fuel or raw material that:

                         II.A.23.d.(iv)(A)      The stationary source in a
                                  nonattainment area was capable of accommodating
                                  prior to December 21, 1976, unless such change
                                  would be prohibited under a federally enforceable
                                  permit condition, or

                         II.A.23.d.(iv)(B)      The stationary source in an attainment
                                  or unclassifiable area was capable of accommodating
                                  prior to January 6, 1975 unless such change would be



                                                                                      255
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                               prohibited under a federally enforceable permit
                               condition, or

                        II.A.23.d.(iv)(C)      The source is approved to use under
                               any permit issued under this Regulation Number 3.

                 II.A.23.d.(v) An increase in the production rate, unless such
                        change would be prohibited under a federally enforceable
                        permit condition;

                 II.A.23.d.(vi) An increase in the hours of operation, unless such
                        increase would be prohibited under a federally enforceable
                        permit condition; or

                 II.A.23.d.(vii) Any change in ownership of a stationary source.

                 II.A.23.d.(viii) The installation, operation, cessation, or removal of a
                        temporary clean coal technology demonstration project, if
                        the project complies with:

                        II.A.23.d.(viii)(A)           The Colorado State
                               Implementation Plan, and

                        II.A.23.d.(viii)(B)           Other requirements necessary to
                               attain and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality
                               Standards during the project and after it is terminated.

                 II.A.23.d.(ix) For major stationary sources in attainment areas:

                        II.A.23.d.(ix)(A)      The installation or operation of a
                               permanent clean coal technology demonstration
                               project that constitutes re-powering, provided that the
                               project does not result in an increase in the potential
                               to emit of any regulated pollutant emitted by the unit.
                               The exemption shall apply on a pollutant-by-pollutant
                               basis.




                                                                                      256
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                           II.A.23.d.(ix)(B)     The reactivation of a very clean coal
                                   fired electric utility steam generating unit.

                    II.A.23.d.(x) The reactivation of a very clean coal fired electric
                           utility steam generating unit.

            II.A.23.e.     This definition shall not apply with respect to a particular
                    regulated NSR pollutant when the major stationary source is
                    complying with the requirements under Section XV. of this Part D
                    for a PAL for that pollutant. Instead, the definition in Section II.A.31.
                    of this part shall apply.

            II.A.23.f.     Emissions caused by indirect sources of pollution, emissions
                    from internal combustion engines on any vehicle, and emissions
                    resulting from temporary construction or exploration activities shall
                    be excluded in determining whether a major modification will occur.
                    Emissions from on-going construction are not considered to be
                    temporary emissions, and are included in determining whether a
                    major modification will occur. Fugitive emissions from the listed
                    sources in Section II.A.25.a. and any other stationary source
                    category that, as of August 7, 1980 was regulated under Sections
                    111 or 112 of the Federal Act (as adopted in Regulations Nos. 6,
                    Part A, and 8, Parts A and E) shall, to the extent quantifiable, be
                    considered in calculating the potential to emit of the modification.

     II.A.24.       Major Source Baseline Date

            II.A.24.a.     In the case of PM10 and sulfur dioxide, January 6, 1975;

            II.A.24.b.     In the case of nitrogen dioxide, February 8, 1988; and

            II.A.24.c.     In the case of PM2.5, October 20, 2010.

     II.A.25.       Major Stationary Source

            II.A.25.a.     For the purpose of determining whether a source in an
                    attainment or unclassifiable area is subject to the requirements of
                    this Part D, major stationary source means:


                                                                                          257
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.A.25.a.(i)   Any of the following stationary sources of air
                        pollutants that emits, or has the potential to emit, one
                        hundred tons per year or more of any regulated NSR
                        pollutant:

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(A)       Fossil fuel-fired steam electric plants of
                                 more than 250 million British thermal units per hour
                                 heat input

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(B)       Coal cleaning plants (with thermal
                                 dryers)

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(C)       Kraft pulp mills

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(D)       Portland cement plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(E)       Primary zinc smelters

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(F)       Iron and steel mill plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(G)       Primary aluminum ore reduction plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(H)       Primary copper smelters

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(I) Municipal incinerators capable of charging
                                 more than 50 tons of refuse per day

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(J)       Hydrofluoric, sulfuric, and nitric acid
                                 plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(K)       Petroleum refineries

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(L)       Lime plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(M)       Phosphate rock processing plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(N)       Coke oven batteries

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(O)       Sulfur recovery plants

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(P)       Carbon black plants (furnace process)

                        II.A.25.a.(i)(Q)       Primary lead smelters



                                                                                         258
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(R)     Fuel conversion plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(S)     Sintering plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(T)     Secondary metal production plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(U)     Chemical process plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(V)     Fossil fuel boilers (or combinations
                                thereof) totaling more than 250 million British thermal
                                units per hour heat input

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(W)     Petroleum storage and transfer units
                                with a total storage capacity exceeding 300,000
                                barrels

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(X)     Taconite ore processing plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(Y)     Glass fiber processing plants

                         II.A.25.a.(i)(Z)     Charcoal production plants

                  II.A.25.a.(ii) Notwithstanding the stationary source size specified
                         in Section II.A.25.a.(i), any stationary source that emits, or
                         has the potential to emit, two hundred and fifty tons per year
                         or more of any regulated NSR pollutant.

           II.A.25.b.    For the purpose of determining whether a source in a
                  nonattainment area is subject to the requirements of Section V. of
                  this part, and whether a source in an attainment area affecting a
                  nonattainment area is subject to the requirements of Section VI.D.
                  of this part, major stationary source means any stationary source of
                  air pollutants that emits, or has the potential to emit 100 tons per
                  year or more of any regulated NSR pollutant for which the area is
                  nonattainment, except where the lower emissions thresholds in
                  Sections II.A.25.b.(i)-(vi) apply. Additionally, a source causing or
                  contributing to a violation of a national ambient air quality standard
                  for any pollutant regulated under Section 110 of the Federal Act



                                                                                         259
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  shall be considered a major stationary source when it has the
                  potential to emit one hundred tons per year or more of that
                  pollutant. The source will be considered to cause or contribute to a
                  violation where the source exceeds the significance levels in the
                  table under Section VI.D.2. of this Part D. Such source is subject to
                  the requirements of Section VI. of this Part D.

                  II.A.25.b.(i)   Fifty tons per year or more of volatile organic
                          compounds or nitrogen oxides in any serious ozone
                          nonattainment area.

                  II.A.25.b.(ii) Fifty tons per year or more of volatile organic
                          compounds in any ozone transport region, except for any
                          severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area.

                  II.A.25.b.(iii) Twenty-five tons per year or more of volatile organic
                          compounds or nitrogen oxides in any severe ozone
                          nonattainment area.

                  II.A.25.b.(iv) Ten tons per year or more of volatile organic
                          compounds or nitrogen oxides in any extreme ozone
                          nonattainment area.

                  II.A.25.b.(v) Fifty tons per year or more of carbon monoxide in any
                          serious carbon monoxide nonattainment area, where
                          stationary sources significantly contribute to carbon
                          monoxide levels.

                  II.A.25.b.(vi) Seventy tons per year or more of PM10 in any serious
                          PM10 nonattainment area.

           II.A.25.c.     Major stationary source includes any physical change that
                  would occur at a stationary source not otherwise qualifying as a
                  major stationary source under Sections II.A.25.a. and II.A.25.b. of
                  this part, if the change would constitute a major stationary source
                  by itself.



                                                                                     260
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.A.25.d.     A major stationary source that is major for volatile organic
                    compounds or NOx shall be considered major for ozone, except
                    that emissions of negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds, as
                    defined in the Common Provisions, shall not be included in the
                    determination of major stationary source status for ozone.

            II.A.25.e.     The fugitive emissions of a stationary source shall not be
                    included in determining for any of the purposes of this section
                    whether it is a major stationary source, unless the source belongs
                    to one of the categories of stationary sources listed in Section
                    II.A.25.a.(i) or any other stationary source category which, as of
                    August 7, 1980, is regulated under Section 111 or 112 of the
                    Federal Act.

            II.A.25.f.     Emissions caused by indirect air pollution sources (as
                    defined in Section I.B.29. of Part A of this regulation), emissions
                    from internal combustion engines on any vehicle, and emissions
                    resulting from temporary activities, such as construction or
                    exploration, shall be excluded in determining whether a source is a
                    major stationary source. Emissions from ongoing construction are
                    not considered to be temporary emissions and are included in
                    determining whether a major modification will occur.

            II.A.25.g.     A major stationary source in the Denver Metro PM10
                    attainment/maintenance area that is major for sulfur dioxide or
                    nitrogen oxides shall be considered major for PM10.

     II.A.26.       Minor Source Baseline Date

            II.A.26.a.     The earliest date after the trigger date that a major stationary
                    source or a major modification subject to the requirements of
                    Section VI. of this Part D submits a complete application under the
                    relevant regulations. The trigger date is:




                                                                                          261
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   II.A.26.a.(i)   In the case of PM10 and sulfur dioxide, August 7,
                          1977;

                   II.A.26.a.(ii) In the case of nitrogen dioxide, February 8, 1988; and

                   II.A.26.a.(iii) In the case of PM2.5, October 20, 2011.

            II.A.26.b.    The baseline date is established for each pollutant for which
                   increments or other equivalent measures have been established if:

                   II.A.26.b.(i)   The area in which the proposed source or
                          modification would construct is designated as attainment or
                          unclassifiable under Sections 107(d)(1)(A)(ii) or (iii) of the
                          Federal Act for the pollutant on the date of its complete
                          application under Section VI. of this part; and

                   II.A.26.b.(ii) In the case of a major stationary source the pollutant
                          would be emitted in significant amounts, or, in the case of a
                          major modification, there would be a significant net
                          emissions increase of the pollutant.

            II.A.26.c.    Any minor source baseline date established originally for the
                   Total Suspended Particulates increments shall remain in effect and
                   shall apply for purposes of determining the amount of available
                   PM10 increments, except that the Division may rescind any such
                   minor source baseline date where it can be shown, to the
                   satisfaction of the Division, that the emissions increase from the
                   major stationary source, or the net emissions increase from the
                   major modification, responsible for triggering that date did not result
                   in a significant amount of PM10 emissions.

     II.A.27.      Net Emissions Increase

            II.A.27.a.    With respect to any regulated NSR pollutant emitted by a
                   major stationary source, the amount by which the sum of the
                   following exceeds zero:




                                                                                        262
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.A.27.a.(i)     The increase in emissions from a particular physical
                             change or change in the method of operation at a stationary
                             source calculated pursuant to Sections I.A.2. through I.A.3.,
                             and I.B. of this Part D; and

                  II.A.27.a.(ii) Any other increases and decreases in actual
                             emissions at the major stationary source that are
                             contemporaneous with the particular change and are
                             otherwise creditable. Baseline actual emissions for
                             calculating increases and decreases under this paragraph
                             shall be determined as provided in the definition of baseline
                             actual emissions, except that paragraphs II.A.4.a.(iii) and
                             II.A.4.b.(iv) of this Part D shall not apply.

           II.A.27.b.        Contemporaneous - an increase or decrease in actual
                  emissions is contemporaneous with the increase from the particular
                  change only if it occurs within five years prior to the date that the
                  increase from the particular change occurs.

           II.A.27.c.        An increase or decrease in actual emissions is creditable
                  only if:

                  II.A.27.c.(i)     It occurs within five years before the date that the
                             increase or decrease occurs; and

                  II.A.27.c.(ii) The Division has not relied on it in issuing a permit for
                             the source under Regulation Number 3, Part D, or the U.S.
                             EPA has not relied on it in issuing a permit under Title I, Part
                             C of the Federal Act, which permit is in effect when the
                             increase in actual emissions from the particular change
                             occurs; and

                  II.A.27.c.(iii) In order to establish a baseline emissions rate, the
                             owner or operator must submit an Air Pollutant Emission
                             Notice to the Division prior to the increase or decrease



                                                                                           263
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                       indicating actual emissions (as defined in Section II.A.1. of
                       this of part) and the owner or operator must submit a revised
                       Air Pollutant Emission Notice to the Division within one year
                       after the increase or decrease occurs, or

                 II.A.27.c.(iv) The owner or operator provides credible,
                       demonstrable evidence to the Division of what actual
                       emissions were before making the increase or decrease and
                       what they were after making the increase or decrease.




                                                                                  264
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.A.27.d.      An increase or decrease in actual emissions of sulfur
                   dioxide, particulate matter, or nitrogen oxides that occurs before the
                   applicable minor source baseline date is creditable only if it is
                   required to be considered in calculating the amount of maximum
                   allowable increases remaining available. With respect to particulate
                   matter, only PM10 emissions can be used to evaluate the net
                   emissions increase for PM10 and only PM2.5 emissions can be
                   used to evaluate the net emissions increase for PM2.5.

           II.A.27.e.      An increase in actual emissions is creditable only to the
                   extent that the new level of actual emissions exceeds the old level.

           II.A.27.f.      A decrease in actual emissions is creditable only to the
                   extent that:

                   II.A.27.f.(i)    The Division has not relied on it in issuing any permit
                           under this Part D, or has not relied on it in demonstrating
                           attainment or reasonable further progress:

                   II.A.27.f.(ii)   The old level of actual emissions or the old level of
                           allowable emissions, whichever is lower, exceeds the new
                           level of actual emissions;

                   II.A.27.f.(iii) It is enforceable as a practical matter at and after the
                           time that actual construction on the particular change begins;
                           and

                   II.A.27.f.(iv) It has approximately the same qualitative significance
                           for public health and welfare as that attributed to the
                           increase from the particular change; and

           II.A.27.g.      An increase that results from a physical change at a source
                   occurs when the emissions unit on which construction occurred
                   becomes operational and begins to emit a particular pollutant. Any
                   replacement unit that requires shakedown becomes operational




                                                                                         265
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    only after a reasonable shakedown period, not to exceed one
                    hundred and eighty days.

            II.A.27.h.     Section II.A.1.a. of this part shall not apply for determining
                    creditable increases and decreases after a change.

            II.A.27.i.     The organic compounds referenced in the common
                    provisions definition of negligibly reactive volatile organic
                    compounds are neither counted as reactive volatile organic
                    compounds in determining significant ozone increases nor
                    creditable against an increase in emissions of any volatile organic
                    compound.

            II.A.27.j.     Creditable Decreases for Fuel Switching.

                    Generally, for credit to be given for the emissions reduction in
                    potential to emit or actual emissions resulting from a physical
                    change or change in method of operation of a major stationary
                    source occurring on or after the effective date of this rule, an Air
                    Pollutant Emission Notice reporting such reduction must be filed
                    within one year after the reduction occurs unless an extension is
                    requested by the source and approved by the Division due to
                    uncertainty as to the permanence of such reduction. At the time
                    credit for any reduction is requested, such reduction must be
                    enforceable. Such reductions must be enforceable through permit
                    conditions or source specific state implementation plan revisions.

     II.A.28.       Nonattainment Major New Source Review (NSR) Program

            A major stationary source preconstruction permit program that has been
            approved by the Administrator and incorporated into this Regulation
            Number 3, Part D. Any permit issued under the program is a major NSR
            permit.

     II.A.29.       PAL Effective Date




                                                                                           266
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            Generally means the date of issuance of the PAL permit. However, the
            PAL effective date for an increased PAL is the date any emissions unit that
            is part of the PAL major modification becomes operational and begins to
            emit the PAL pollutant.

     II.A.30.        PAL Effective Period

            The period beginning with the PAL effective date and ending ten years
            later.

     II.A.31.        PAL Major Modification

            Notwithstanding Part A, Section I.B.53. and Part D Sections II.A.22 and
            II.A.26. (the definitions for subject to regulation, major modification, and
            net emissions increase), any physical change in or change in the method
            of operation of the PAL source that causes it to emit the PAL pollutant at a
            level equal to or greater than the PAL.

     II.A.32.        PAL Minor Source

            Any stationary source that does not meet the definition of major stationary
            source in Part D, Section II.A.25. at the time the PAL is issued.

     II.A.33.        PAL Permit

            The Operating Permit issued in accordance with this Part D that
            establishes a PAL for a major stationary source or a GHG-only source.

     II.A.34.        PAL Pollutant

            The pollutant for which a PAL is established at a major stationary source
            or a GHG-only source. For a GHG-only source, the only available PAL
            pollutant is greenhouse gases.

     II.A.35.        Plant-wide Applicability Limitation (PAL)

            An emission limitation expressed on a mass basis in tons per year, or
            expressed in tons per year CO2e for a CO2e-based GHG emission
            limitation, for a pollutant at a major stationary source or GHG-only source




                                                                                       267
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            that is enforceable as a practical matter and established source-wide in
            accordance with Section XV. of this Part D.

     II.A.36.      Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Permit

            Any permit that is issued in accordance with Section VI. of this Part D.

     II.A.37.      Project

            A physical change in, or change in the method of operation of, an existing
            major stationary source.

     II.A.38.      Projected Actual Emissions

            II.A.38.a.    The maximum annual rate, in tons per year, at which an
                   existing emissions unit at a major stationary source is projected to
                   emit a regulated NSR pollutant in any one of the five years (twelve-
                   month period) following the date the unit resumes regular operation
                   after the project, or in any one of the ten years following that date, if
                   the project involves increasing the emissions unit's design capacity
                   or its potential to emit of that regulated NSR pollutant and full
                   utilization of the unit would result in a significant emissions increase
                   or a significant net emissions increase at the major stationary
                   source.

            II.A.38.b.    In determining the projected actual emissions under Section
                   II.A.38.a., before beginning actual construction, the owner or
                   operator of the major stationary source:

                   II.A.38.b.(i)   Shall consider all relevant information, including but
                          not limited to, historical operational data, the company's own
                          representations, the company's expected business activity
                          and the company's highest projections of business activity,
                          the company's filings with the State or Federal regulatory
                          authorities, and compliance plans; and




                                                                                        268
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   II.A.38.b.(ii) Shall include fugitive emissions to the extent
                          quantifiable, and emissions associated with startups,
                          shutdowns, and malfunctions; and

                   II.A.38.b.(iii) Shall exclude, in calculating any increase in
                          emissions that results from the particular project, that portion
                          of the unit's emissions following the project that an existing
                          unit could have accommodated during the consecutive
                          twenty-four month period used to establish the baseline
                          actual emissions under Section II.A.4. of this part D and that
                          are also unrelated to the particular project, including any
                          increased utilization due to product demand growth; or,

                   II.A.38.b.(iv) In lieu of using the method set out in Sections
                          II.A.38.b.(i) through II.A.38.b.(iii), may elect to use the
                          emissions unit's potential to emit, in tons per year, as defined
                          in Section I.B.43. of Part A of this regulation.

     II.A.39.      Reactivation of Very Clean Coal-fired Electric Utility Steam
            Generating Unit

            Any physical change or change in the method of operation associated with
            the commencement of commercial operations by a coal-fired utility unit
            after a period of discontinued operation where the unit:

            II.A.39.a.    Has not been in operation for the two year period prior to the
                   enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, and the
                   emissions from such unit continue to be carried in the permitting
                   authority's emissions inventory at the time of the enactment;

            II.A.39.b.    Was equipped prior to shut-down with a continuous system
                   of emissions control that achieves a removal efficiency for sulfur
                   dioxide of no less than eighty-five percent and a removal efficiency
                   for particulates of no less than ninety-eight percent;




                                                                                        269
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.A.39.c.      Is equipped with low-nitrogen oxide burners prior to the time
                    of commencement of operations following reactivation; and

            II.A.39.d.      Is otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the
                    Federal Act.

     II.A.40.       Regulated NSR Pollutant

            II.A.40.a.      Nitrogen oxides or any volatile organic compound;

            II.A.40.b.      Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality
                    standard has been promulgated;

            II.A.40.c.      Any pollutant that is a constituent or precursor of a general
                    pollutant listed under Sections II.A.40.a. or II.A.40.b., (e.g. volatile
                    organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen are precursors for
                    ozone) provided that such a constituent or precursor pollutant may
                    only be regulated under NSR as part of regulation of the general
                    pollutant. Precursors for the purposes of New Source Review are
                    the following:

                    II.A.40.c.(i)    Nitrogen oxides or any volatile organic compound are
                            precursors to ozone;

                    II.A.40.c.(ii) Sulfur dioxide is a precursor to PM2.5;

                    II.A.40.c.(iii) Nitrogen oxides are precursors to PM2.5.

            II.A.40.d.      Any pollutant, except for GHG, that is subject to any
                    standard promulgated under Section 111 of the Federal Act, (see
                    II.A.40.e. for GHG);

            II.A.40.e.      Any pollutant that otherwise is subject to regulation under
                    the Federal Act as defined in Section I.B.53. or Part A;

            II.A.40.f.      Notwithstanding Sections II.A.40.a. through II.A.40.e. of this
                    Part D, the term regulated NSR pollutant shall not include any or all
                    hazardous air pollutants either listed in Section 112 of the Federal
                    Act (that have not been delisted pursuant to Section 112(b)(3) of


                                                                                          270
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   the Federal Act) or Appendix B of this regulation, unless the listed
                   hazardous air pollutant is also regulated as a constituent or
                   precursor of a general pollutant listed under Section 108 of the
                   Federal Act.

            II.A.40.g.    PM2.5 emissions and PM10 emissions shall include
                   gaseous emissions from a source or activity which condense to
                   form particulate matter at ambient temperatures. On or after
                   January 1, 2011, such condensable particulate matter shall be
                   accounted for in applicability determinations and in establishing
                   emissions limitations for PM2.5 and PM10 in PSD permits.
                   Compliance with emission limitations for PM2.5 and PM10 issued
                   prior to this date shall not be based on condensable particulate
                   matter unless required by the terms and conditions of the permit or
                   the applicable implementation plan. Applicability determinations
                   made prior to this date without accounting for condensable
                   particulate matter shall not be considered in violation of this section.

     II.A.41.      Replacement Unit

            An emissions unit for which all the criteria listed in Sections II.A.41.a.
            through II.A.41.d. are met. No creditable emission reductions shall be
            generated from shutting down the existing emissions unit that is replaced.

            II.A.41.a.    The emissions unit is a reconstructed unit within the
                   meaning of Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Section
                   60.15(b)(1) (July 19, 2021), or the emissions unit completely takes
                   the place of an existing emissions unit.

            II.A.41.b.    The emissions unit is identical to or functionally equivalent to
                   the replaced emissions unit.

            II.A.41.c.    The replacement does not alter the basic design parameters
                   of the process unit.




                                                                                         271
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            II.A.41.d.    The replaced emissions unit is permanently removed from
                   the major stationary source, otherwise permanently disabled, or
                   permanently barred from operation by a permit that is enforceable
                   as a practical matter. If the replaced emissions unit is brought back
                   into operation, it shall constitute a new emissions unit.

     II.A.42.      Repowering

            II.A.42.a.    Replacement of an existing coal-fired boiler with one of the
                   following clean coal technologies: atmospheric or pressurized
                   fluidized bed combustion, integrated gasification combined cycle,
                   magnetohydrodynamics, direct and indirect coal-fired turbines,
                   integrated gasification fuel cells, or as determined by the
                   Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, a
                   derivative of one or more of these technologies, and any other
                   technology capable of controlling multiple combustion emissions
                   simultaneously with improved boiler or generation efficiency and
                   with significantly greater waste reduction relative to the
                   performance of technology in widespread commercial use as of
                   November 15, 1990.

            II.A.42.b.    Repowering shall also include any oil and/or gas-fired unit
                   that have been awarded clean coal technology demonstration
                   funding as of January 1, 1991, by the Department of Energy.

     II.A.43.      Secondary Emissions

            Emissions that occur as a result of the construction or operation of a major
            stationary source or major modification, but do not come from the major
            stationary source or major modification itself. For the purpose of this Part
            D, secondary emissions must be specific, well defined, quantifiable, and
            impact the same general area as the stationary source or modification that
            causes the secondary emissions. Secondary emissions include emissions
            from any offsite support facility that would not otherwise be constructed or
            increase its emissions except as a result of the construction or operation


                                                                                      272
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            of the major stationary source or major modification. Secondary emissions
            do not include any emissions that come directly from a mobile source,
            such as emissions from the tailpipe of a motor vehicle, from a train, or
            from a vessel.

     II.A.44.      Significant

            II.A.44.a.    Unless the context otherwise requires, a significant rate of
                   emissions in tons per year is defined as a value that would equal or
                   exceed any of the following:




                                                                                       273
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission


         Carbon monoxide: 100 tons per year

         Nitrogen Oxides: 40 (nitric oxide + nitrogen dioxide) tons per year

         Sulfur dioxide: 40 tons per year

         Particulate matter: 25 tons per year particulate matter emissions or, 15 tons per
         year of PM10 emissions

         PM10 - Precursors in the Denver Metropolitan PM10 attainment/maintenance
         area: 40 tons per year for each individual precursor (nitrogen oxides or sulfur
         oxides)

         PM2.5: 10 tons per year of direct PM2.5 emissions; 40 tons per year of sulfur
         dioxide emissions; or 40 tons per year of nitrogen dioxide emissions

         Ozone: 40 tons per year of volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides

         Lead: 0.6 tons per year

         Fluorides: 3 tons per year

         Sulfuric acid mist: 7 tons per year

         Hydrogen sulfide: 10 tons per year

         Total reduced sulfur (including hydrogen sulfide): 10 tons per year

         Reduced sulfur compounds (including hydrogen sulfide): 10 tons per year

         Municipal Waste Combustor Organics (measured as total tetra- through octa-
         chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans): 3.2 x 10-6 megagrams per
         year (3.5 x 10-6 tons per year)

         Municipal Waste Combustor Metals (measured as particulate matter): 14
         megagrams per year (15 tons per year)



                                                                                    274
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission


          Municipal Waste Combustor Acid Gases (measured as sulfur dioxide and
          hydrogen chloride): 36 megagrams per year (40 tons per year)

          Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Gases (measured as non-methane organic
          compounds): 45 megagrams per year (50 tons per year)

          In a serious or severe ozone nonattainment area: 25 tons per year of volatile
          organic compounds or nitrogen oxides

          In an extreme ozone nonattainment area: any increase of volatile organic
          compounds or nitrogen oxides

            II.A.44.b.    Significant means, in reference to a net emissions increase
                   or the potential of a source to emit a regulated NSR pollutant that
                   this definition does not list, any emissions rate, except that this
                   definition shall not apply to hazardous air pollutants listed in or
                   pursuant to Section 112 of the Federal Act.

            II.A.44.c.    Notwithstanding the significant emission rates, significant
                   means any emissions rate or any net emissions increase
                   associated with a major stationary source or major modification,
                   that would construct within ten kilometers of a Class I area, and
                   have an impact on such area equal to or greater than one
                   microgram/cubic meter ((g/m3 ) (twenty-four hour average).

     II.A.45.      Significant Emissions Increase

            For a regulated NSR pollutant, an increase in emissions that is significant
            (as defined in Section II.A.44. of this Part D) for that pollutant.

     II.A.46.      Significant Emissions Unit

            II.A.46.a.    An emissions unit that emits or has the potential to emit a
                   PAL pollutant in an amount that is equal to or greater than the
                   significant level (as defined in Section II.A.44. of this Part D or in
                   the Federal Act, whichever is lower) for that PAL pollutant, but less



                                                                                         275
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                     than the amount that would qualify the unit as a major emissions
                     unit (as defined in Section II.A.22. of this part).

              II.A.46.b.    For a GHG PAL issued on a CO2e basis, significant
                     emissions unit means any emissions unit that emits or has the
                     potential to emit GHGs on a CO2e basis in amounts equal to or
                     greater than the amount that would qualify the unit as small
                     emissions unit as defined in Section II.A.47, but less than the
                     amount that would qualify the unit as a major emissions unit as
                     defined in Section II.A.22.

       II.A.47.      Small Emissions Unit

              II.A.47.a.    An emissions unit that emits or has the potential to emit the
                     PAL pollutant in an amount less than the significant level for that
                     PAL pollutant (as defined in Section II.A.34. of this Part D or in the
                     Federal Act, whichever is lower).

              II.A.47.b.    For a GHG PAL issued on a CO2e basis, small emissions
                     unit means an emissions unit less than the amount of GHGs on a
                     CO2e basis defined as significant for the purposes of Part A,
                     Section I.B.46.c. at the time the PAL permit is being issued.

       II.A.48.      Temporary Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project

              A clean coal technology demonstration project that is operated for a period
              of five years or less, and that complies with the state implementation plan
              and other requirements necessary to attain and maintain the National
              Ambient Air Quality Standards during the project and after it is terminated.

III.   Permit Review Procedures
III.A. Major stationary sources subject to the requirements of this Part D must apply for
       and obtain a Construction Permit in accordance with the procedures and
       requirements in Part B or an Operating permit in accordance with the procedures
       and requirements in Part C.




                                                                                           276
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

III.B. The Division shall complete the processing of applications (including any
      requested public hearing) for sources subject Sections VI. and VII. of this Part D
      within twelve months of receipt of a complete application.

IV.   Public Comment and Hearing Requirements
IV.A. When public comment is required, or when the Division determines that an
      application warrants public comment in accordance with Section III.C.3. of Part B
      of this regulation, the Division shall, within fifteen calendar days after the
      preparation of the preliminary analysis, cause public notice of the application to
      be published in a newspaper of general distribution in the area in which the
      proposed project or activity is or will be located, and by such other means as
      necessary to assure notice to the affected public, which may include posting of
      such notice on the publicly accessible portion of the Division's web site.

      The Division will make available in at least one location in each region in which
      the proposed source would be constructed, a copy of all materials the applicant
      submitted, a copy of the preliminary determination, and a copy or summary of
      other materials, if any, considered in making the preliminary determination. This
      requirement may be met by making these materials available at a physical
      location or on a public web site identified by the Division. The Division shall send
      written or electronic notice to persons requesting a notice of permit applications.
      Electronic notice may include email notification to persons on an email list
      developed and maintained by the Division

      IV.A.1. For sources subject to the provisions of Sections V. and VI., a copy of the
             written or electronic notice of public comment shall be sent to the
             applicant, the U.S. EPA Administrator, and to officials and agencies having
             cognizance over the location where the proposed construction would
             occur, including any other state or local air pollution control agencies and
             any state, Indian governing body or Federal Land Manager whose lands
             may be affected by emissions from the source or modification.

      IV.A.2. Additionally, for permit applications subject to the requirements of this Part
             D, the notice shall contain the following information:


                                                                                        277
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            IV.A.2.a.     That comments are solicited on an innovative technological
                   system for pollution control if proposed by the applicant and that a
                   hearing by the Commission will be held on such system if
                   requested by any interested person;

            IV.A.2.b.     That comments are solicited on the air quality impacts of the
                   source or modification;

            IV.A.2.c.     That comments are solicited on alternatives to the source or
                   modification;

            IV.A.2.d.     That any interested person may submit a written request for
                   a public comment hearing to be held pursuant to Section VII. of the
                   Commission's Procedural Rules to receive comments regarding the
                   foregoing concerns, the sufficiency of the preliminary analysis, and
                   whether the Division should approve or deny the permit application;
                   and

            IV.A.2.e.     The degree of increment consumption that is expected from
                   the source or modification.

     IV.A.3. Within fifteen calendar days after the preparation of the preliminary
            analysis for those applications subject to the requirements of this Part D,
            the Division shall forward to the applicant written notice of the applicant's
            right to a public comment hearing with respect to the application pursuant
            to Section VII. of the Commission's Procedural Rules.

     IV.A.4. A hearing request pursuant to Section IV.A.2.a. of this Part D, regarding
            innovative control, must be transmitted by the Division to the Commission
            within twenty days after its receipt.

     IV.A.5. A hearing request pursuant to Section IV.A.2.d. of this Part D must be
            transmitted by the Division to the Commission, along with the complete
            permit application, the preliminary analysis, the draft permit, and any
            written comments received by the Division within five days after the end of
            the thirty-day comment period. At least thirty days prior to the date set for



                                                                                       278
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              the public comment hearing, the notice of public comment hearing, the
              preliminary analysis and the draft permit shall be posted on the Division's
              web site. No substantive revisions shall be made to the draft permit during
              the thirty days prior to the public comment hearing.

       IV.A.6. The Commission shall hold a public comment hearing within sixty days of
              its receipt of the request for such hearing pursuant to Section IV.A.2. of
              this Part D (unless such greater time is agreed to by the applicant and the
              Division), but at least sixty days after receipt by any Federal Land
              Manager of notice and the permit application required pursuant to Section
              XIII.A. of this Part D. The Division shall appear at the public comment
              hearing in order to present the permit application. At least thirty days prior
              to such hearing, notice thereof shall be mailed by the Commission to the
              applicant, to any interested person who submitted a request for a public
              hearing and to any Federal Land Manager given notice pursuant to
              Section XIII.A., printed in a newspaper of general distribution in the area of
              the proposed source or modification, and submitted for public review with
              the county clerk for each county in which the source or modification is or
              will be located. Except as provided herein and in the notice, such hearings
              will be conducted pursuant to the Act, the Procedural Rules of the Air
              Quality Control Commission and the State Administrative Procedure Act,
              Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 24-4-101 et seq.

       IV.A.7. Within fifteen days after the Division makes a final decision on an
              application subject to the requirements of this Part D, the Division shall
              make available for public inspection the decision and all public comments
              in accordance with the notification procedure in Part D, Section IV.A.

V.     Requirements Applicable to Nonattainment Areas
V.A.   Major Stationary Sources.

       For any new major stationary source or major modification, the Division shall
       grant a permit if it determines that the following conditions in Sections V.A.1.




                                                                                           279
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     through V.A.6., as well as those in Section III.D.1. of Part B of this regulation, will
     be met:

     V.A.1. The proposed source will achieve the lowest achievable emission rate for
            the specific source category.

     V.A.2. The applicant has certified that all other existing major stationary sources
            owned, operated, or controlled by the applicant (or any entity controlling,
            controlled by, or under the common control with the applicant) in Colorado
            are in compliance with the requirements of the State implementation plan
            and the federally approved state implementation plan, or are subject to
            and in compliance with an enforceable compliance schedule, or a federally
            enforceable compliance schedule.

     V.A.3. Prior to the date of commencement of operations, the ratio of total actual
            emission reductions compared to the emissions increase (offsets) shall be
            at least one for one (1:1), unless an alternative ratio is provided for the
            applicable nonattainment area as identified in Section V.A.3.a.

            V.A.3.a.      Offset Ratios

                   V.A.3.a(i)     For ozone nonattainment areas that are subject to
                          subpart 2, part D, title I of the Federal Act, the offset ratio of
                          total actual emission reductions of VOC to the emissions
                          increase of VOC shall be as follows:

                          V.A.3.a(i)(a) In any marginal nonattainment area for ozone
                                  – at least 1.1:1;

                          V.A.3.a(i)(b) In any moderate nonattainment area for ozone
                                  – at least 1.15:1;

                          V.A.3.a(i)(c) In any serious nonattainment area for ozone –
                                  at least 1.2:1;

                          V.A.3.a(i)(d) In any severe nonattainment area for ozone –
                                  at least 1.3:1; or



                                                                                          280
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                         V.A.3.a(i)(e) In any extreme nonattainment area for ozone –
                                 at least 1.5:1.

                 V.A.3.a.(ii)    For all areas within an ozone transport region that is
                         subject to subpart 2, part D, title 1 of the Federal Act, and
                         that are not designated as serious, severe or extreme and
                         are subject to subpart 1, part D, title 1 of the Federal Act – at
                         least 1.15:1.

                 V.A.3.a.(iii)   For ozone nonattainment areas that are subject to
                         subpart 1, part D, title I of the Federal Act, including 8-hour
                         ozone nonattainment areas subject to 40 CFR, Part 51,
                         Section 51.902(b), the ratio of total actual emissions
                         reductions of VOC to the emissions increase of VOC shall
                         be at least 1:1.

           V.A.3.b.              Offsets must be obtained from existing sources
                 (whether or not under the same ownership) within the
                 nonattainment area for each pollutant, or its precursors, for which
                 the area is nonattainment. Offsets must represent reasonable
                 further progress towards attainment of the National Ambient Air
                 Quality Standards when considered in connection with other new
                 and existing sources of emissions. In addition, offsets for PM10,
                 PM2.5, sulfur oxides, and carbon monoxide must show, through
                 atmospheric modeling, a positive net air quality benefit in the area
                 affected by the emissions. Provided, however, that offsets meeting
                 the requirements of this Section V.A.3. may also be obtained from
                 existing sources outside the nonattainment area if the applicant
                 demonstrates:

                 V.A.3.b.(i)     A greater air quality benefit may thus be achieved, or
                         sufficient offsets are not available from sources within the
                         nonattainment area; and




                                                                                         281
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   V.A.3.b.(ii)    The other area has an equal or higher nonattainment
                           classification than the area in which the source is located;
                           and

                   V.A.3.b.(iii)   Emissions from such other area contribute to a
                           violation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard in the
                           nonattainment area in which the source is located.

                   V.A.3.b.(iv)    With respect to offsets obtained from outside the
                           nonattainment area, the Division may increase the ratio of
                           the required offsets to new emissions the greater the
                           distance such offsets are from the new or modified source.

            V.A.3.c.               Offsets must be for the same regulated NSR pollutant,
                   except that offset requirements for direct PM2.5 emissions or
                   PM2.5 precursors may be satisfied by offsetting reductions in direct
                   PM2.5 emissions or emissions of any PM2.5 precursor identified
                   under Section II.A.40. of Part D.

            V.A.3.d.       Offsets for NOx and VOC must be in the form of emission
                   reduction credits certified under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                   Section V.

     V.A.4. The permit application shall include an analysis of alternative sites, sizes,
            production processes and environmental control techniques for such
            proposed source that demonstrates that benefits of the proposed source
            significantly outweigh the environmental and social costs imposed as a
            result of its location, construction, or modification.

     V.A.5. Offsets for which emission reduction credit is taken must be enforceable
            through permit conditions or source specific state implementation plan
            revisions. The amount of offset required (emission increase) must be
            determined by methodologies outlined in Section I.B. of this Part D.

     V.A.6. The applicant will demonstrate that emissions from the proposed source
            will not adversely impact visibility in a Class I area. This demonstration



                                                                                         282
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           shall be reviewed by the Federal Land Manager and any determination
           made by the Federal Land Manager shall be considered in the Division's
           decision to grant the permit. If an adverse impact, as described in Section
           XIV.E., is predicted by the Division, the permit application will be denied.
           Federal Land Manager involvement shall follow the same procedures as
           stated in Section XIII.A. of this Part D. The demonstration will be
           performed using either techniques described in the latest version of the
           U.S. EPA document entitled “Workbook for Estimating Visibility
           Impairment” or other techniques approved by the Division.

     V.A.7. Applicability of Certain Nonattainment Area Requirements

           V.A.7.a.      Any major stationary source in a nonattainment area is
                  subject to the requirements of Section V.A. of this Part D.

           V.A.7.b.      The requirements of Section V.A. shall apply at such time
                  that any stationary source or modification becomes a major
                  stationary source or major modification solely by virtue of a
                  relaxation in any enforceable limitation that was established after
                  August 7, 1980 on the capacity of the source or modification to
                  otherwise emit a pollutant, such as a restriction on hours of
                  operation.

           V.A.7.c.      The following provisions apply to projects at existing
                  emissions units at a major stationary source (other than projects at
                  a source with a PAL) in circumstances where there is a project that
                  is not a part of a major modification and the owner or operator
                  elects to use the method specified in Sections II.A.38.b.(i) through
                  II.A.38.b.(iii) of this Part D for calculating projected actual
                  emissions.

                  V.A.7.c.(i)    Before beginning actual construction of the project,
                         the owner or operator shall document and maintain a record
                         of the following information:




                                                                                     283
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                         V.A.7.c.(i)(A) A description of the project;

                         V.A.7.c.(i)(B) Identification of the emissions unit(s) whose
                                 emissions of a regulated NSR pollutant could be
                                 affected by the project; and

                         V.A.7.c.(i)(C) A description of the applicability test used to
                                 determine that the project is not a major modification
                                 for any regulated NSR pollutant, including the
                                 baseline actual emissions, the projected actual
                                 emissions, the amount of emissions excluded under
                                 Section II.A.38.b.(iii) of this part and an explanation
                                 for why such amount was excluded, and any netting
                                 calculations, if applicable.

                 V.A.7.c.(ii)    If the emissions unit is an existing electric utility steam
                         generating unit, before beginning actual construction, the
                         owner or operator shall provide a copy of the information set
                         out in Section V.A.7.c.(i) to the Division. Nothing in this
                         Section V.A.7.c.(ii) shall be construed to require the owner or
                         operator of such a unit to obtain any determination from the
                         Division before beginning actual construction.

                 V.A.7.c.(iii)   The owner or operator shall monitor the emissions of
                         any regulated NSR pollutant that could increase as a result
                         of the project and that is emitted by any emissions units
                         identified in Section V.A.7.c.(i)(B); and calculate and
                         maintain a record of the annual emissions, in tons per year
                         on a calendar year basis, for a period of five years following
                         resumption of regular operations after the change, or for a
                         period of ten years following resumption of regular
                         operations after the change if the project increases the
                         design capacity or potential to emit of that regulated NSR
                         pollutant at such emissions unit.


                                                                                        284
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 V.A.7.c.(iv)   If the unit is an existing electric utility steam
                        generating unit, the owner or operator shall submit a report
                        to the Division within sixty days after the end of each year
                        during which records must be generated under Section
                        V.A.7.c.(iii) setting out the unit's annual emissions during the
                        calendar year that preceded submission of the report.

                 V.A.7.c.(v)    If the unit is an existing unit other than an electric
                        utility steam generating unit, the owner or operator shall
                        submit a report to the Division if the annual emissions, in
                        tons per year, from the project identified in Section
                        V.A.7.c.(i), exceed the baseline actual emissions (as
                        documented and maintained pursuant to Section
                        V.A.7.c.(i)(C)) by a significant amount (as defined in Section
                        II.A.44. of this part) for that regulated NSR pollutant, and if
                        such emissions differ from the preconstruction projection as
                        documented and maintained pursuant to Section
                        V.A.7.c.(i)(C). Such report shall be submitted to the Division
                        within sixty days after the end of such year. The report shall
                        contain the following:

                        V.A.7.c.(v)(A) The name, address and telephone number of
                                owner or operator of the major stationary source;

                        V.A.7.c.(v)(B) The annual emissions as calculated pursuant
                                to Section V.A.7.c.(iii); and

                        V.A.7.c.(v)(C) Any other information that the owner or
                                operator wishes to include in the report (e.g., an
                                explanation as to why the emissions differ from the
                                preconstruction projection).

           V.A.7.d.             The owner or operator of the source shall make the
                 information required to be documented and maintained pursuant to




                                                                                         285
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 Section V.A.7.c. available for review upon request for inspection by
                 the Division or the general public.

     V.A.8. Exemptions from certain nonattainment area requirements:

           V.A.8.a.            The following are exempt from the major stationary
                 source criteria of Section V.A.3. of this part.

                        V.A.8.a.(i)(A) Portable sources that will relocate outside a
                               nonattainment area in less than one year.

                        V.A.8.a.(i)(B) Each pilot plant that operates an aggregate of
                               less than six months.

                        V.A.8.a.(i)(C) Construction phases of a new or modified
                               building, facility, structure, or installation. These may,
                               at the discretion of the Division, exceed a period of
                               one year.

                        V.A.8.a.(i)(D) Other temporary processes or activities of less
                               than one year in duration.

                        V.A.8.a.(i)(E) Sources undergoing fuel switches as required
                               by federal order if the Division determines that:

                               V.A.8.a.i(E)(1)         The applicant has used best
                                       efforts in seeking the required emission offsets
                                       but was unsuccessful;

                               V.A.8.a.i(E)(2)         All available emission offsets
                                       were obtained; and,

                               V.A.8.a.i(E)(3)         The applicant will continue to
                                       seek emission offsets as they become
                                       available.




                                                                                        286
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VI.   Requirements applicable to attainment and unclassifiable areas and
pollutants implemented under Section 110 of the Federal Act (Prevention of
Significant Deterioration Program).
VI.A. Major Stationary Sources and Major Modifications.

      The requirements of this Section VI. shall apply to any major stationary source
      and any major modification with respect to each pollutant regulated under the Act
      and the Federal Act that it would emit, except as this Regulation Number 3 would
      otherwise allow.

      For any new major stationary source or major modification proposing to construct
      in any area in Colorado designated under Section 107 (d) of the Federal Act as
      attainment or unclassifiable for any criteria pollutant as of the date of submittal of
      a complete application under this Regulation Number 3, or for pollutants
      implemented under Section 110 of the Federal Act, the Division shall grant a
      permit if it determines that the following requirements, in addition to those in
      Section III.D.1. of Part B of this regulation, have been or will be met:

      VI.A.1.       Control Technology Review.

             VI.A.1.a.     A new major stationary source shall apply Best Available
                    Control Technology for each pollutant regulated under the Act or
                    Federal Act that it would have the potential to emit in significant
                    amounts.

             VI.A.1.b.     A major modification shall apply best available control
                    technology for each pollutant regulated under the Act or Federal Act
                    for which there would be a significant net emissions increase at the
                    source. This requirement applies to each proposed emissions unit
                    at which a net emissions increase in the pollutant would occur as a
                    result of a physical change or change in the method of operation of
                    the unit.

             VI.A.1.c.     For phased construction projects, the determination of best
                    available control technology shall be reviewed and modified as



                                                                                          287
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  appropriate at the latest reasonable time which occurs no later than
                  eighteen months prior to commencement of construction of each
                  independent phase of the project. The review will be conducted in a
                  timely manner that will allow the owner or operator to proceed with
                  scheduled construction of the source. During the review, the owner
                  or operator of the applicable stationary source may be required to
                  demonstrate the adequacy of any previous determination of best
                  available control technology for the source.

     VI.A.2.      Source Impact Analysis. The owner or operator of the proposed
           source or modification shall demonstrate to the Division that allowable
           emission increases from the proposed source or modification in
           conjunction with all other applicable emissions increases or reductions
           (including secondary emissions) will not cause or contribute to
           concentrations of air pollutants in the ambient air in violation of either
           Section VI.A.2.a. or b.

           VI.A.2.a.     Any state or national ambient air quality standard in any
                  baseline area or air quality control region; or

           VI.A.2.b.     Any applicable maximum allowable increase over the
                  baseline concentration in any area.

           VI.A.2.c.     Reserved

     VI.A.3.      Pre-construction Monitoring and Analysis

           VI.A.3.a.     An analysis of ambient air quality in any area that would be
                  affected by the proposed major stationary source or major
                  modification shall be performed for each pollutant regulated under
                  the Act or Federal Act that the source or modification would emit or
                  have the potential to emit in a significant amount, or for which there
                  would be a significant net emissions increase.

           VI.A.3.b.     With respect to any such regulated pollutant for which no
                  national ambient air quality standard exists and for which there is



                                                                                        288
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  an acceptable method for the monitoring of that pollutant, the
                  analysis shall contain such air quality monitoring data as the
                  Division determines are necessary to assess ambient air quality for
                  that pollutant in any area that emissions of that pollutant would
                  affect.

           VI.A.3.c.        With respect to any such pollutant for which a national
                  ambient air quality standard does exist, the analysis shall contain
                  continuous air quality monitoring data gathered for purposes of
                  determining whether emissions of that pollutant would cause or
                  contribute to a violation of the applicable standard or any maximum
                  allowable increase.

           VI.A.3.d.        In general, the continuous air quality monitoring data that are
                  required under Section VI.A.3.c., or the pre-application monitoring
                  of air quality related values required by Section XIII.B. of this part,
                  shall have been gathered over a period of one year and shall
                  represent the year preceding receipt of the application, except that,
                  if the Division determines that a complete and adequate analysis
                  can be accomplished with monitoring data gathered over a period
                  shorter than one year (but not to be less than four months), the
                  data that are required shall have been gathered over at least that
                  shorter period.

           VI.A.3.e.        The owner or operator of a proposed major stationary source
                  or major modification of volatile organic compounds who satisfies
                  all conditions of the Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 51,
                  Appendix S, Section IV. (but not including conditions resulting from
                  amendments after July 1, 1991 and not including Section IV. B. of
                  Appendix S) may provide post-approval monitoring data for ozone
                  in lieu of providing pre-construction data as required under Section
                  VI.A.3.a. (Information on obtaining the Code of Federal Regulations
                  Title 40, Part 51, Appendix S, Section IV. is available from the



                                                                                       289
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  Director, Air Pollution Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive
                  South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530.)

     VI.A.4.      Post-Construction Monitoring.

           At its discretion, the Division may require that the owner or operator of a
           major stationary source or major modification conduct post-construction
           ambient monitoring for a period up to one year. The Division may also
           require additional monitoring beyond the one year period if such
           monitoring is necessary to determine the effect emissions from the
           stationary source or modification have, or may have, on air quality in any
           area. The monitoring of air quality related values or sensitive receptors
           required by Section XIII.B. of this part, shall be for such time as is
           necessary to determine the effect emissions from the source or
           modification will have on the air quality related values or sensitive
           receptors. Post-construction monitoring requirements will be permit
           conditions.

     VI.A.5.      Operation of Monitoring Stations.

           The owner or operator of a major stationary source or major modification
           shall use the U.S. EPA accepted procedures for ambient monitoring as
           approved by the Division during the operation of monitoring stations for
           purposes of satisfying the requirements of Sections VI.A.3. and VI.A.4.

     VI.A.6.      Additional Impact Analysis.

           For each pollutant that is regulated under the Act or the Federal Act, and
           for which the source or modification would emit in significant amounts (as
           defined in Section II.A.44. of this part) or for which there would be a
           significant net emissions increase, the owner or operator shall provide an
           analysis of the impairment to visibility, water, soils, and vegetation that
           would occur as a result of the emissions of such pollutant from the source
           or modification and general commercial, residential, industrial, and other
           growth associated with the source or modification.



                                                                                         290
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             The analysis of impairment to water will not be used in the determination
             of best available control technology. The owner or operator need not
             provide an analysis of the impact on vegetation having no significant
             commercial or recreational value. The additional impact analysis will
             include the effects on air quality related values as stated in Section XIII.B.
             of this part, if applicable. The owner or operator shall provide an analysis
             of the air quality impact projected for the area as a result of general
             commercial, residential, industrial and other growth associated with the
             source or modification.

VI.B. Applicability of Certain PSD Requirements.

      VI.B.1.       The requirements of Section VI.A. do not apply to a major
             stationary source or major modification with respect to a particular
             pollutant if the owner or operator demonstrates that, as to that pollutant:

             VI.B.1.a.     The source or modification is subject to Part 3 of the Act and
                    Section V. of this part, and the source or modification would not
                    impact any area designated as attainment or unclassifiable for that
                    pollutant; or

             VI.B.1.b.     The emissions from the source or modification would not be
                    significant; or

             VI.B.1.c.     The source or modification is a portable stationary source
                    that has previously received a permit under requirements
                    equivalent to those contained in Section VI.A. of this part if:

                    VI.B.1.c.(i)      The source proposes to relocate and emissions of the
                           source at the new location would be temporary;

                    VI.B.1.c.(ii)     The emissions from the source would not exceed its
                           allowable emissions;

                    VI.B.1.c.(iii) The emissions from the source would impact no Class
                           I area and no area where an applicable increment is known
                           to be violated; and


                                                                                        291
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.B.1.c.(iv) Reasonable notice identifying the proposed new
                         location and the probable duration of operation at the new
                         location and a revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice is given
                         to the Division prior to the relocation. Such notice and
                         revised Air Pollutant Emission Notice shall be given to the
                         Division not less than ten days in advance of the proposed
                         relocation unless a different time duration is previously
                         approved by the Division.

     VI.B.2.      The requirements contained in Sections VI.A.2. through VI.A.4. of
           this part do not apply:

           VI.B.2.a.     To a proposed major stationary source or major modification
                  with respect to a particular pollutant, if the emissions would be from
                  a temporary source, modification or activity, such as construction or
                  exploration, and would not have an impact on air quality in any
                  Class I area or an area where an applicable increment is known to
                  be violated; or

           VI.B.2.b.     As they relate to any maximum allowable increase for a
                  Class II area, to a modification of a major stationary source that
                  was in existence on March 1, 1978, if the net increase in allowable
                  emissions of each pollutant subject to regulation, excluding GHG,
                  under the Act from the modification after the application of best
                  available control technology would be less than fifty tons per year.

     VI.B.3.      The Division may exempt a proposed major stationary source or
           major modification from the requirements of Sections VI.A.3. through
           VI.A.5. of this part, with respect to monitoring for a particular pollutant if:

           VI.B.3.a.     The emissions of the pollutant from the new stationary
                  source or the net emissions increase of the pollutant from the
                  modification would cause air quality impacts, in any area, less than
                  the following:




                                                                                         292
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  VI.B.3.a.(i)    Carbon monoxide - 575 µg/m3, 8-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(ii)   Nitrogen dioxide - 14 µg/m3, annual average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(iii) Particulate Matter - PM10 -- 10 µg/m3, 24-hour
                  average; PM2.5 – 0 µg/m3, 24-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(iv) Sulfur dioxide - 13 µg/m3, 24-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(v) Lead - 0.1 µg/m3, 3-month average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(vi) Fluorides - 0.25 µg/m3, 24-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(vii) Total reduced sulfur - 10 µg/m3, 1-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(viii) Hydrogen sulfide - 0.2 µg/m3, 1-hour average;

                  VI.B.3.a.(ix) Reduced sulfur compounds - 10 µg/m3, 1-hour
                  average; or

           VI.B.3.b.     The existing concentrations of the pollutant in the area that
                  the source or modification would affect are less than the
                  concentrations listed in this section; or

           VI.B.3.c.     For ozone, the emissions increase or net emissions increase
                  of volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides from the source or
                  modification would be less than 100 tons per year; or

           VI.B.3.d.     The pollutant is not referred to in this Section VI.B.3.a.; or

           VI.B.3.e.     The source or modification was subject to Section VI., with
                  respect to PM2.5, as in effect before July 15, 2008, and the owner
                  or operator submitted an application for a permit under this Section
                  VI.A. of Part D before that date consistent with EPA
                  recommendations to use PM10 as a surrogate for PM2.5, and the
                  Division subsequently determines that the application as submitted
                  was complete with respect to the PM2.5 requirements then in
                  effect, as interpreted by EPA in the memorandum entitled “Interim
                  Implementation of New Source Review Requirements for PM2.5”
                  (October 23, 1997). Instead, the requirements of Section VI.A. of


                                                                                      293
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  this Part D, as interpreted in the aforementioned memorandum, that
                  was in effect before July 15, 2008 shall apply to such source or
                  modification.

     VI.B.4.      The requirements of this Part D shall apply at such time that any
           stationary source or modification becomes a major stationary source or
           major modification solely by virtue of a relaxation in any enforceable
           limitation that was established after August 7, 1980, on the capacity of the
           source or modification to otherwise emit a pollutant such as a restriction
           on hours of operation.

     VI.B.5.      The following provisions apply to projects at existing emissions
           units at a major stationary source (other than projects at a source with a
           PAL) in circumstances where there is a project that is not a part of a major
           modification and the owner or operator elects to use the method specified
           in Sections II.A.38.b.(i) through II.A.38.b.(iii) of this Part D for calculating
           projected actual emissions.

           VI.B.5.a.      Before beginning actual construction of the project, the
                  owner or operator shall document and maintain a record of the
                  following information:

                  VI.B.5.a.(i)    A description of the project;

                  VI.B.5.a.(ii)   Identification of the emissions unit(s) whose
                          emissions of a regulated NSR pollutant could be affected by
                          the project; and

                  VI.B.5.a.(iii) A description of the applicability test used to
                          determine that the project is not a major modification for any
                          regulated NSR pollutant, including the baseline actual
                          emissions, the projected actual emissions, the amount of
                          emissions excluded under Section II.A.38.b.(iii) of this part,
                          and an explanation for why such amount was excluded, and
                          any netting calculations, if applicable.



                                                                                         294
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           VI.B.5.b.        If the emissions unit is an existing electric utility steam-
                  generating unit, before beginning actual construction, the owner or
                  operator shall provide a copy of the information set out in Section
                  VI.B.5.a. to the Division. Nothing in this Section VI.B.5.b. shall be
                  construed to require the owner or operator of such a unit to obtain
                  any determination from the Division before beginning actual
                  construction.

           VI.B.5.c.        The owner or operator shall monitor the emissions of any
                  regulated NSR pollutant that could increase as a result of the
                  project and that is emitted by any emissions unit identified in
                  Section VI.B.5.a.(ii); and calculate and maintain a record of the
                  annual emissions, in tons per year on a calendar year basis, for a
                  period of five years following resumption of regular operations after
                  the change, or for a period of ten years following resumption of
                  regular operations after the change if the project increases the
                  design capacity or potential to emit of that regulated NSR pollutant
                  at such emissions unit.

           VI.B.5.d.        If the unit is an existing electric utility steam generating unit,
                  the owner or operator shall submit a report to the Division within
                  sixty days after the end of each year during which records must be
                  generated under Section VI.B.5.c. setting out the unit's annual
                  emissions during the calendar year that preceded submission of the
                  report.

           VI.B.5.e.        If the unit is an existing unit other than an electric utility
                  steam-generating unit, the owner or operator shall submit a report
                  to the Division if the annual emissions, in tons per year, from the
                  project identified in Section VI.B.5.a. exceed the baseline actual
                  emissions (as documented and maintained pursuant to Section
                  VI.B.5.a.(iii)) by a significant amount (as defined in Section II.A.44.
                  of this part) for that regulated NSR pollutant, and if such emissions



                                                                                             295
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    differ from the preconstruction projection as documented and
                    maintained pursuant to Section VI.B.5.a.(iii). Such report shall be
                    submitted to the Division within sixty days after the end of such
                    year. The report shall contain the following:

                    VI.B.5.e.(i)    The name, address and telephone number of the
                           major stationary source;

                    VI.B.5.e.(ii)   The annual emissions as calculated pursuant to
                           Section VI.B.5.c.; and

                    VI.B.5.e.(iii) Any other information that the owner or operator
                           wishes to include in the report (e.g., an explanation as to
                           why the emissions differ from the preconstruction projection).

      VI.B.6.       The owner or operator of the source shall make the information
             required to be documented and maintained pursuant to Section VI.B.5.
             available for review upon request for inspection by the Division or the
             general public.

      VI.B.7.       A stationary source or modification may apply the applicable
             maximum allowable increases for total suspended particulate matter as in
             effect on the date of the permit application, in meeting the requirements of
             Section VI.A.2. of this part, if the following requirements are met:

             VI.B.7.a.     The owner or operator of the source or modification
                    submitted an application for a permit under Regulation Number 3
                    before the provisions for maximum allowable increases for PM10
                    took effect; and

             VI.B.7.b.     The Division determines that the application as submitted,
                    before the date that the maximum allowable increases for PM10
                    took effect, was complete.

VI.C. Notice to the U.S. EPA.

      The Division shall transmit to the Administrator of the U. S. EPA a copy of each
      permit application relating to a major stationary source or major modification


                                                                                         296
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      subject to this regulation, and provide notice of every action related to the
      consideration of such permit.

VI.D. Major Stationary Sources in attainment areas affecting nonattainment areas.

      VI.D.1.       For any new major stationary source or major modification that is
             proposed to be constructed in an area designated under Section 107(d) of
             the Federal Act as attainment or unclassifiable for a particular pollutant
             and the emissions of such pollutant from which would significantly affect
             ambient air quality in an area designated as nonattainment for such
             pollutant, the Division shall grant a permit if it determines that one or both
             of the following conditions, as well as those in Section III.D.1. of Part B
             and Section VI.A. of this Part D will be met:

             VI.D.1.a. The proposed source or modification will meet the requirements
                    of Sections V.A.1. and V.A.2. of this part, and obtain sufficient
                    emission reductions of such pollutant in the nonattainment area to
                    offset that portion of its emissions of such pollutant that affect the
                    nonattainment area. Offsets may be obtained from outside the
                    nonattainment area as provided in Section V.A.3. of this part; or

             VI.D.1.b. The proposed source or modification will achieve an emissions
                    rate that will ensure that the emissions of such pollutant from the
                    source or modification will not significantly affect ambient air quality
                    in the nonattainment area.

      VI.D.2.       Ambient air quality will be deemed to be significantly affected if, but
             for any offsets, the applicable significance level set forth in the following
             table would be exceeded in the nonattainment area.




                                                                                           297
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                           TABLE OF SIGNIFICANCE LEVELS

          Pollutant                                 Averaging Time

                           Annual        24-Hour        8-Hour        3-Hour         1-Hour

            SO2           1.0 µg/m3      5 µg/m3                     25 µg/m3

           PM10           1.0 µg/m3      5 µg/m3

           PM2.5          0.3 µg/m3     1.2 µg/m3

            NO2           1.0 µg/m3

             CO                                       500 µg/m3                    2000 µg/m3

       VI.D.3.        Any new major stationary source or major modification subject to
              this section that will emit or cause a net emissions increase in volatile
              organic compounds or oxides of nitrogen shall demonstrate to the
              satisfaction of the Division that its emissions will not affect any ozone
              nonattainment area or shall obtain offsets as required in Section VI.D.1.

       VI.D.4.        Emission offsets for PM10, sulfur dioxide, and carbon monoxide,
              must show, through air quality modeling, a positive net air quality benefit in
              the portion of the nonattainment area affected by emissions from the
              proposed source or modification.

VII.   Negligibly Reactive Volatile Organic Compounds (NRVOCs)
VII.A. The negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds referenced in the Common
       Provisions definition of negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds are
       considered to be of negligible photochemical reactivity and are neither counted
       as reactive volatile organic compounds in determining volatile organic compound
       emission contributions to an increase in ozone nor used as volatile organic
       compound emission offsets or other volatile organic compound emission trading
       credits against volatile organic compounds not listed in the common provisions
       negligibly reactive volatile organic compound definition.

VII.B. Negligibly reactive volatile organic compounds may be substituted for volatile
       organic compounds and the resulting decrease in volatile organic compound


                                                                                          298
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        emissions, if otherwise creditable, may be used for offset, banking or other
        emission trading credit.

VIII.   Area Classifications
VIII.A. The following areas in Colorado shall be Class I areas and may not be
        redesignated:

        VIII.A.1.      National Parks

               VIII.A.1.a.   Rocky Mountain

               VIII.A.1.b.   Mesa Verde

        VIII.A.2.      National Wilderness Areas

               VIII.A.2.a.   Black Canyon of the Gunnison

               VIII.A.2.b.   Eagle's Nest

               VIII.A.2.c.   Flattops

               VIII.A.2.d.   Great Sand Dunes

               VIII.A.2.e.   La Garita

               VIII.A.2.f.   Maroon Bells - Snowmass

               VIII.A.2.g.   Mount Zirkel

               VIII.A.2.h.   Rawah

               VIII.A.2.i.   Weminuche

               VIII.A.2.j.   West Elk

VIII.B. All other areas of Colorado, unless otherwise specified by Act of Congress or the
        Colorado legislature, or the Commission pursuant to Section IX. are designated
        Class II; provided, however that in the following areas as they existed on August
        7, 1977 (maps available from the Division), the increase allowed in sulfur dioxide
        concentrations over the baseline concentration shall be the same as the increase
        established by Section 163(b) of the Federal Act for Class I areas, except that
        such allowable increases may not be allowed if a Federal Land Manager should



                                                                                          299
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      make an adverse impact determination under Section XIII.C. with which the
      Division concurs and except that such allowable increases, may be exceeded by
      compliance with the provisions of Sections XIII.D., XIII.E., or XIII.F.:

      VIII.B.1.     National Monuments

             VIII.B.1.a.   Florissant Fossil Beds

             VIII.B.1.b.   Colorado

             VIII.B.1.c.   Dinosaur

             VIII.B.1.d.   Great Sand Dunes (those portions not included as National
                    Wilderness Areas in Section VIII.A.2.)

      VIII.B.2.     Forest Service Primitive Areas

             VIII.B.2.a.   Uncompahgre Mountain

             VIII.B.2.b.   Wilson Mountain

      VIII.B.3.     Lands administered by the Federal Bureau of Land Management in
             the Gunnison Gorge Recreation Area as of October 27, 1977. All areas
             designated Class II under this section may be redesignated as provided in
             Section IX. of this part.

      VIII.B.4.     National Parks

             Black Canyon of the Gunnison (those portions not included as National
             Wilderness Areas in Section VIII.A.2.)

VIII.C. The following areas may be redesignated only as Class I or II.

      VIII.C.1.     An area that exceeds ten thousand acres in size and is a national
             monument, a national primitive area, a national preserve, a national
             recreational area, a national wild and scenic river, a national wildlife
             refuge, a national lakeshore; and

      VIII.C.2.     A national park or national wilderness area established after August
             7, 1977, that exceeds ten thousand acres in size.




                                                                                        300
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

VIII.D. The Commission recognizes out of state Class I areas that have been listed in
       the Federal Register (44 Fed. Reg. 69124). Emissions from sources in Colorado
       shall not violate any standard in these areas.

IX.    Redesignation
IX.A. Except as otherwise provided in this section or Section VIII. of this part, the
       Commission may redesignate any area in Colorado as Class I, Class II or Class
       III as herein provided. The Commission will provide notice to the General
       Purpose Unit of local government in an area where the maximum allowable
       increase is being approached.

IX.B. The Commission shall review and consider a request for redesignation by any
       person.

IX.C. The Commission shall not set a hearing date on a proposed redesignation until
       the following have been completed:

       IX.C.1.       A complete description of the area proposed for redesignation;

       IX.C.2.       A detailed statement of the circumstances that support the
              proposed redesignation;

       IX.C.3.       A prediction of the costs and benefits for the affected population
              from the proposed redesignation;

       IX.C.4.       A technical analysis of expected impacts on ambient air quality in
              adjacent or nearby areas;

       IX.C.5.       Comments, or evidence of an opportunity for submission of
              comments, by all appropriate regional planning agencies and councils of
              government organizations, affected municipalities and other affected
              political subdivisions; and

       IX.C.6.       An analysis of the relationship of the proposed redesignation with
              applicable county or regional development plans, including but not limited
              to, comprehensive area wide plans and 208 water quality plans.




                                                                                          301
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

IX.D. The Commission shall provide sixty day notice prior to a public hearing, including
      notice to other states, Indian governing bodies and Federal Land Managers
      whose lands may be affected by a proposed redesignation, of any proposed
      redesignation, and conduct public hearings on such proposed redesignation in or
      near areas within Colorado that may be affected by such proposed
      redesignation, including at least one public hearing within or as near as is
      practicable to the area to be redesignated. At least thirty days prior to any such
      public hearings, the Commission shall make available for public inspection a
      discussion of the reasons for the proposed redesignation, including a satisfactory
      description and analysis of the health, environmental, economic, and societal and
      energy effects of the proposed redesignation. The notice announcing any public
      hearings shall contain appropriate notification of the availability of such
      discussion.

IX.E. Prior to the issuance of notice respecting the proposed redesignation of an area
      that includes any federal lands, the Commission shall provide written notice to
      the appropriate Federal Land Manager and afford adequate opportunity (not in
      excess of sixty days) to confer with the Commission respecting the notice of
      proposed redesignation and to submit written comments and recommendations
      with respect to such notice of proposed redesignation. In redesignating any area
      with respect to which any Federal Land Manager had submitted written
      comments and recommendations, the Commission shall publish a list of any
      inconsistency between such redesignation and such comments and
      recommendations and an explanation of such inconsistency (together with the
      reasons for making such redesignation against the recommendation of the
      Federal Land Manager).

IX.F. All redesignations, except any established by an Indian governing body, shall be
      specifically approved; (1) by the governor, after consultation with the appropriate
      committees of the legislature, if it is in session, or with the leadership of the
      legislature, if it is not in session, and (2) by resolutions or ordinances enacted by
      the general purpose units of local government representing a majority of the
      residents of the area to be redesignated.


                                                                                          302
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

IX.G. No area may be redesignated if such redesignation would cause or contribute to
        concentrations of any air pollutant in any other area that exceed any maximum
        allowable increase or maximum allowable concentration permitted under the
        classification of such area.

IX.H. Lands within the exterior boundaries of reservations of federally recognized
        Indian tribes may be redesignated only by the appropriate Indian governing body.

IX.I.   Any redesignation shall constitute a revision to the Colorado State
        Implementation Plan and shall be submitted for approval to the Administrator of
        the U.S. EPA.

IX.J. Any redesignation or denial of a proper request for redesignation made pursuant
        to this Section IX. shall be subject to judicial review in accord with Colorado
        Revised Statute Section 25-7-120.

IX.K. Any area other than an area to which Sections VIII.A. or VIII.C. refer to may be
        redesignated as Class III if any major stationary source or major modification
        could receive a permit only if the area in question were redesignated as Class III,
        and any material submitted as part of that application were available, insofar as
        was practicable, for public inspection prior to any public hearing on redesignation
        of any area as Class III.

X.      Air Quality Limitations
X.A.    Ambient Air Increments

        X.A.1. The maximum allowable increases over the baseline concentration for
               sulfur dioxide, PM10, PM2.5 or nitrogen dioxide except as provided in
               Section VIII.B. of this part, are:




                                                                                          303
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           X.A.1.a.            For any Class I area:



                                  PM2.5 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         1

       Twenty-four hour maximum                         2

                                  PM10 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         4

       Twenty-four hour maximum                         8

                             Sulfur dioxide (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         2

       Twenty-four hour maximum                         5

          Three hour maximum                            25

                            Nitrogen dioxide (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         2.5

           X.A.1.b.            For any Class II area:



                                  PM2.5 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         4

       Twenty-four hour maximum                         9

                                  PM10 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                         17

       Twenty-four hour maximum                         30

                             Sulfur dioxide (µg/m3)




                                                                      304
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

         Annual arithmetic mean                               20

       Twenty-four hour maximum                               91

          Three hour maximum                                  512

                             Nitrogen dioxide (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                               25



           X.A.1.c.            For any Class III area:



                                  PM2.5 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                                8

       Twenty-four hour maximum                               18

                                   PM10 (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                               34

       Twenty-four hour maximum                               60

                              Sulfur dioxide (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                               40

       Twenty-four hour maximum                               182

          Three hour maximum                                  700

                             Nitrogen dioxide (µg/m3)

         Annual arithmetic mean                               50

     X.A.2. The maximum allowable increases over the baseline concentration for any
           other air pollutant shall be the same as those increases established
           pursuant to Section 165(a) of the Federal Act.




                                                                                  305
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     X.A.3. For any period other than an annual period, the applicable maximum
           allowable increase may be exceeded during one such period per year at
           any one location.

     X.A.4. Periodic Review

           X.A.4.a.      The Division shall, on a periodic basis, review the adequacy
                  of this Regulation Number 3 for preventing significant deterioration
                  of air quality. Within thirty days after any information becomes
                  available and there is cause to believe that an applicable increment
                  is being violated, the Division shall present the cause for such belief
                  to the Commission.

           X.A.4.b.      If the Commission concurs that there is cause to believe that
                  an increment is being violated, it shall hold a hearing to determine
                  whether an increment violation exists. The hearing shall be held
                  pursuant to the procedures of Colorado Revised Statute Section
                  25-7-119. Notice should be given by first class mail to permitted
                  sources that can be reasonably identified as emitting the pollutant
                  in violation and affecting the area of violation.

           X.A.4.c.      Should the Commission determine that an increment
                  violation exists, the Division shall review all sources affecting the
                  area of increment violation and ensure that all such sources comply
                  with all applicable permit conditions, and state and local
                  regulations. Within thirty days after completing such a review, the
                  Division shall recommend revisions, if necessary, to the
                  Commission to correct the violation. Upon receipt of recommended
                  revisions from the Division, the Commission shall as soon as
                  practicable act to revise this regulation as it deems necessary.

     X.A.5. Increment Consumption Restriction (State-only upon effective date of final
           action from EPA to remove this provision from Colorado’s State
           Implementation Plan)




                                                                                      306
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             X.A.5.a.     No new major stationary source or major modification shall
                   individually consume more than seventy-five percent of an
                   applicable increment.

                   X.A.5.a.(i)   Applicants may request a hearing before the
                          Commission to request a waiver of this restriction. The
                          hearing shall be heard in accordance with the provisions of
                          Colorado Revised Statute Sections 25-7-114 (4)(h), 25-7-119
                          (Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act), and
                          Colorado Revised Statute 24-4-105 (State Administrative
                          Procedure Act).

                          X.A.5.a.(i)(A) The Commission shall not set a hearing date
                                 for a waiver request until submittal of comments, or
                                 evidence of an opportunity for submittal of comments
                                 by all appropriate regional planning agencies and
                                 councils of government organizations, affected
                                 municipalities and other affected political subdivisions
                                 has occurred.

                          X.A.5.a.(i)(B) Ambient Air Limits. No concentrations of a
                                 pollutant shall exceed a national ambient air quality
                                 standard or a state ambient air standard where no
                                 national ambient air quality standard has been
                                 established.

XI.   Exclusions from Increment Consumption
XI.A. The following concentrations are excluded in determining compliance with a
      maximum allowable increase:

      XI.A.1.      Concentrations attributable to the increase in emissions from
             stationary sources that have converted from the use of petroleum
             products, natural gas, or both by an order in effect under Sections 2(a)
             and (b) of the federal “Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act
             of 1974” (or any superseding legislation) over the emissions from such


                                                                                        307
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           sources before the effective date of such an order, but not more than five
           years after the effective date of such an order.

     XI.A.2.      Concentrations attributable to the increase in emissions from
           sources that have converted from using natural gas by reason of a natural
           gas curtailment plan in effect pursuant to the Federal “Power Act” over the
           emissions from such sources before the effective date of such plan, but
           not more than five years after the effective date of the plan.

     XI.A.3.      Concentrations of particulate matter attributable to an increase in
           emissions from construction or other temporary emission-related activities
           of new or modified sources.

     XI.A.4.      Concentrations attributable to the temporary increase in emissions
           of sulfur dioxide, or particulate matter, or nitrogen oxides from stationary
           sources that are affected by revisions of the Colorado State
           Implementation Plan that are approved by the Administrator of the U.S.
           EPA and that provide:

           XI.A.4.a.     The time period of such temporary increase in emissions is
                  not renewable and may not exceed two years in duration, unless a
                  longer time is approved by the Division and the U.S. EPA;

           XI.A.4.b.     Such temporary increase in emissions shall not impact a
                  Class I area or an area where an applicable increment is known to
                  be violated or cause or contribute to the violation of a national
                  ambient air quality standard; and

           XI.A.4.c.     Emission limitations shall be in effect at the end of the time
                  period specified in the plan revision that will ensure that the
                  emissions levels from stationary sources affected by the plan
                  revision will not exceed those levels occurring from such sources
                  before the plan revision was approved by the U.S. EPA.




                                                                                      308
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

XII.   Innovative Control Technology
XII.A. An owner or operator of a proposed major stationary source or major
       modification otherwise subject to the requirements of Section VI. of this Part D
       may request the Division to grant a waiver from the Best Available Control
       Technology requirements and to approve a system of innovative control
       technology, in order to encourage the use of such technology.

XII.B. The Division or the Commission may, with the consent of the governor(s) of other
       affected states, grant a waiver from the Best Available Control Technology
       requirements of Section VI.A.1. of this part necessary for the employment of
       innovative control technology and determine that the source or modification may
       employ such system if:

       XII.B.1.      The proposed control system would not cause or contribute to an
              unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety in its operation or
              function;

       XII.B.2.      The owner or operator agrees to achieve a level of continuous
              emissions reduction greater than or equivalent to that, which would have
              been required under Section VI.A.1. by a date specified by the Division.
              Such date shall not be later than four years from the time of startup or
              seven years from permit issuance;

       XII.B.3.      The source or modification would meet the requirements of
              Sections VI.A.1. and VI.A.2. based on the emissions rate that the
              stationary source employing the system of innovative control technology
              would be required to meet on the date specified by the Division;

       XII.B.4.      The source or modification would not, before the date specified by
              the Division under Section XII.B.2.

              XII.B.4.a.    Cause or contribute to any violation of an applicable national
                     ambient air quality standard.

                     XII.B.4.a.(i) Impact any area where an applicable increment is
                            known to be violated.


                                                                                           309
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        XII.B.5.       All other applicable requirements including those for public
               participation have been met.

        XII.B.6.       The provisions of Section VIII. of this part (relating to Class I areas)
               have been satisfied with respect to all periods during the life of the source
               or modification.

XII.C. The Division shall withdraw any approval to employ a system of innovative
        control technology made under this section, if:

        XII.C.1.       The proposed system fails by the specified date to achieve the
               required continuous emissions reduction rate; or

        XII.C.2.       The proposed system fails before the specified date so as to
               contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety; or

        XII.C.3.       The Division decides at any time that the proposed system is
               unlikely to achieve the required level of control or to protect the public
               health, welfare, or safety.

XII.D. If a source or modification fails to meet the required level of continuous
        emissions reduction within the specified time period, or if the approval is
        withdrawn in accordance with Section XII.C., the Division may allow the source
        or modification up to an additional three years to meet the requirement for the
        application of best available control technology through use of a demonstrated
        system of control.

XIII.   Federal Class I Areas
XIII.A. Within twenty days of receipt of a permit application for a new major stationary
        source or major modification that may affect visibility or air quality related values
        in any Federal Class I area, the Division shall transmit a copy of the application
        to all affected Federal Land Managers and consult with them as to its
        completeness in its analysis and monitoring (if required) of air quality related
        values. If the Division receives advance notification of a permit application of a
        source that may affect visibility or air quality related values, it will notify all
        affected Federal Land Managers within thirty days of such notification. The


                                                                                              310
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       Division will consider any analysis performed by a Federal Land Manager that
       indicates there will be an adverse impact on visibility or air quality related values
       if such analysis is received within thirty days after the Federal Land Manager
       receives a copy of the complete application. If the Division disagrees with the
       Federal Land Manager, any notices for public comment or of a public hearing on
       the application will explain the disagreement or state where the explanation can
       be obtained.

XIII.B. In addition to the general impact analysis required by Section VI.A.6. of this part,
       any source that will have or is likely to have an impact on any designated Class I
       area may be required to conduct monitoring to establish the condition of and the
       impact on air quality related values in such Class I area(s) both prior to
       completing an application for a permit to construct and during the construction
       and operation of such source.

       XIII.B.1.      If monitoring is required, the source shall conduct a private
              monitoring program. However, if monitoring is being conducted by any
              other existing source or government agency, the new source may enter
              into a joint monitoring program with that source or agency. All monitoring
              programs must be approved in advance by the Division.

       XIII.B.2.      Pre-application monitoring may include the monitoring of not more
              than three air quality related values or sensitive receptors of air quality
              related values specified by the Division after consultation with the Federal
              Land Manager. The air quality related values or sensitive receptor(s)
              selected must be important to the affected Class l area, and there must be
              cause to believe that monitoring of the air quality related values or
              sensitive receptors will provide a basis for evaluating effects to the
              relevant air quality related values.

       XIII.B.3.      Monitoring during construction and operation may only be required
              for the sensitive receptors specified for pre-application monitoring, unless
              new information becomes available that demonstrates a significant




                                                                                            311
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             economic or technological advantage of monitoring a different sensitive
             receptor, and it is acceptable to the source owner or operator.

      XIII.B.4.     Monitoring of air quality related values or sensitive receptors of air
             quality related values may only be required if:

             XIII.B.4.a.   Monitoring methods are reasonably available and research
                    and development of monitoring methods are unnecessary;

             XIII.B.4.b.   The major effect on the air quality related values or sensitive
                    receptor would reasonably be predicted to be a result of the
                    applicant's individual emissions or of the applicant's emissions in
                    combination with any person's emissions with whom the applicant
                    may be required to conduct joint monitoring; and

             XIII.B.4.c.   It is economically reasonable for the source to conduct such
                    monitoring.

XIII.C. Sources Impacting Federal Class I Area - Additional Requirements. Federal Land
      Managers may present to the Division, after its preliminary analysis required
      under Section III.B. of Part B of this regulation, a demonstration that the
      emissions from the proposed source or modification would have an adverse
      impact on the air quality related values (including visibility) of any federal
      mandatory Class I lands, notwithstanding that the change in air quality resulting
      from emissions from such source or modification would not cause or contribute to
      concentrations that would exceed the maximum allowable increases for a Class I
      area. If the Division concurs with such demonstration, or in the event the Federal
      Land Manager fails to perform an adverse impact analysis and the Division
      determines that there is an adverse impact on visibility, or the Division
      determines that a demonstration of no adverse impact is in error, the Division
      shall not issue the permit.

XIII.D. Class I Variances. The owner or operator of a proposed major stationary source
      or major modification may demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal Land
      Manager that the emissions from such source or modification would not have an



                                                                                        312
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     adverse impact on the air quality related values (including visibility) of Class I
     lands under the Federal Land Manager's jurisdiction, notwithstanding that the
     change in air quality resulting from emissions from such source or modification
     would cause or contribute to concentrations that would exceed the maximum
     allowable increases for a Class I area. If the Federal Land Manager concurs with
     such demonstration and so certifies to the Division, the Division or the
     Commission may, provided that applicable requirements are otherwise met, issue
     the permit with such emission limitations as may be necessary to assure that
     emissions of sulfur dioxide, and PM10, PM2.5 and nitrogen oxides would not
     exceed the following maximum allowable increases over the minor source
     baseline concentration for such pollutants.



                            Maximum allowable increase

                                   Particulate matter

     PM2.5, Annual arithmetic mean                              4 µg/m3

   PM2.5, Twenty-four hour maximum                              9 µg/m3

     PM10, Annual arithmetic mean                              17 µg/m3

    PM10, Twenty-four hour maximum                             30 µg/m3

                                     Sulfur dioxide

        Annual arithmetic mean                                 20 µg/m3

       Twenty-four hour maximum                                91 µg/m3

         Three hour maximum                                   325 µg/m3

                                    Nitrogen dioxide

        Annual arithmetic mean                                 25 µg/m3




                                                                                          313
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

XIII.E. Sulfur Dioxide Variance by Governor

      XIII.E.1.            The owner or operator of a proposed major stationary source
             or major modification that cannot be approved under Section XIII.D., may
             demonstrate to the governor that the source or modification cannot be
             constructed by reason of any maximum allowable increase for sulfur
             dioxide for periods of twenty-four hours or less, applicable to any Class I
             area and, in the case of the federal mandatory Class I areas, that a
             variance under this section would not have an adverse effect on the air
             quality related values of the area (including visibility).

      XIII.E.2.            The governor, after consideration of the Federal Land
             Manager's recommendation (if any) and subject to his concurrence, may
             grant, after notice and an opportunity for a public hearing, a variance from
             such maximum allowable increase.

      XIII.E.3.            If such variance is granted, the Division may issue a permit
             to such source or modification in accordance with Section XIII.G., if the
             applicable requirements of Regulation Number 3 are otherwise met.

XIII.F. Variance by the Governor with the President's Concurrence

      XIII.F.1.            The recommendations of the governor and the Federal Land
             Manager shall be transferred to the president in any case where the
             governor recommends a variance with which the Federal Land Manager
             does not concur.

      XIII.F.2.            If the president approves the variance, the Division may
             issue a permit in accordance with Section XIII.G., if the applicable
             requirements of Regulation Number 3 are otherwise met.

XIII.G. Emission Limitations for Presidential and Gubernatorial Variance. In the case of a
      permit to be issued under Sections XIII.E. and XIII.F., the source or modification
      shall comply with emission limitations as may be necessary to assure that
      emissions of sulfur dioxide from the source or modification would not (during any
      day on that the otherwise applicable maximum allowable increases are



                                                                                         314
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

         exceeded) cause or contribute to concentrations that would exceed the following
         maximum allowable increases over the baseline concentration assure that such
         emissions would not cause or contribute to concentrations that exceed the
         otherwise applicable maximum allowable increases for periods of exposure of
         twenty-four hours or less for more than eighteen days, not necessarily
         consecutive, during any annual period:

Maximum Allowable Increase (µg/m3)




          Period of               Terrain Areas
          Exposure

                               Low           High

       24-hour maximum          36            62

       3-hour maximum          130           221

XIV.     Visibility
XIV.A. Purpose

         This section assures reasonable progress towards the national goal of preventing
         future, and remedying existing, visibility impairment in Class I areas, where such
         impairment results from man-made air pollution.

XIV.B. Applicability

         This section applies to all Class I areas and to sources in Colorado the emissions
         from which may reasonably be anticipated to cause or contribute to any
         impairment of visibility in any such area (even if the area is in another state).

XIV.C. Definitions

         For purposes of this Section XIV.

         XIV.C.1.      Adverse impact on visibility means for the purpose of Section
                XIV.E. visibility impairment that interferes with the management,



                                                                                             315
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           protection, preservation, or enjoyment of the visitor's visual experience of
           the Class I area. Any determination shall be made on a case-by-case
           basis taking into account the geographic extent, intensity, duration,
           frequency and time of visibility impairments, and how these factors
           correlate with times of visitor use of the Class I area, and the frequency
           and timing of natural conditions that reduce visibility.

     XIV.C.2.     Best Available Retrofit Technology means an emission limitation
           achievable through the application of the best system of continuous
           emission reduction for each pollutant that is emitted by an existing
           stationary facility. The emission limitation shall be established on a case-
           by-case basis taking into consideration the technology available, the costs
           of compliance, the energy and non-air quality environmental impacts of
           compliance, any pollution control equipment in use or in existence at the
           source, the remaining useful life of the source, and the degree of
           improvement in visibility that may reasonably be anticipated to result from
           the use of such technology.

     XIV.C.3.     Existing stationary facility means any of the stationary sources of
           air pollutants defined in Sections I.B.24., I.B.29. through I.B.32., I.B.42.,
           and I.B.52. of Part A, Section I.A.1.(c) of Part C, and Section II.A.24. of
           Part D of this regulation, including any reconstructed source that was not
           in operation prior to August 7, 1962, and had commenced construction on
           or before August 7, 1977, and has the potential to emit two hundred and
           fifty tons per year or more of any air pollutant. In determining potential to
           emit, fugitive emissions, to the extent quantifiable shall be counted.

     XIV.C.4.     Long-term strategy means a ten to fifteen year plan for making
           reasonable progress toward the national goal specified in Section XIV.A.
           of this part.

     XIV.C.5.     Natural conditions include naturally occurring phenomena that
           reduce visibility as measured in terms of visual range, contrast, or
           coloration.


                                                                                         316
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      XIV.C.6.       Reasonably attributable means attributable by visual observation or
             any other technique the state deems appropriate.

      XIV.C.7.       Significant impairment means, for purposes of Section XIV.D.2.c.,
             visibility impairment, that interferes with the management, protection,
             preservation or enjoyment of the visitor's visual experience of the Class I
             area.

      XIV.C.8.       Visibility impairment means any humanly perceptible change in
             visibility (visual range, contrast, coloration) that would have existed under
             natural conditions.

      XIV.C.9.       Class I area means an area listed in Section VIII.A. of this part and
             any area that may be redesignated to Class I in the future.

XIV.D. Existing Impairment

      XIV.D.1.       The Federal Land Manager or the Division may, at any time, certify
             to the Division director that visibility impairment exists in any Class I area.
             The Division may also certify that visibility impairment exists in any Class I
             area without the concurrence of the Federal Land Manager.

      XIV.D.2.       Each existing stationary facility located in Colorado to which the
             cause of or contribution to visibility impairment in any Class I area is
             reasonably attributable, shall apply for and obtain from the Division a
             permit that requires the installation and operation of Best Available Retrofit
             Technology. The facility shall install and operate Best Available Retrofit
             Technology as expeditiously as practicable but in no case later than five
             years after permit issuance.

             XIV.D.2.a.      For fossil-fuel fired generating plants having a total
                     generating capacity in excess of 750 megawatts, Best Available
                     Retrofit Technology shall be determined pursuant to “Guidelines for
                     Determining Best Available Retrofit Technology for Coal-fired Power
                     Plants and Other Existing Stationary Facilities” (U.S. EPA
                     Publication Number 450/3-80-009b, 1980), and state of the art



                                                                                          317
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                 information available at the time of Best Available Retrofit
                 Technology analysis. Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section
                 24-4-103 (12.5), the document referenced in this section is
                 available for public inspection during normal working hours, or
                 copies are available for cost, from the technical secretary of the
                 Commission, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado
                 80246-1530. This Regulation Number 3 does not include later
                 amendments to or editions of the referenced documents.

           XIV.D.2.b.   Should technological or economic limitations make the
                 application of Best Available Retrofit Technology as previously
                 defined infeasible; the state may instead prescribe a design,
                 equipment, work practice, or other operational standard, or
                 combination thereof, as representing Best Available Retrofit
                 Technology. Where a facility is subject to Section XIV.D.2.a., due to
                 technological limitations, the facility shall install and operate Best
                 Available Retrofit Technology as previously defined when new
                 technology for control of the pollutant becomes reasonably
                 available provided: 1) the pollutant is emitted by the existing facility;
                 2) controls representing Best Available Retrofit Technology for the
                 pollutant have not previously been required under this section; and
                 3) the impairment of visibility in any Class I area is reasonably
                 attributable to the emissions of that pollutant.

           XIV.D.2.c.   Any existing stationary facility required to install and operate
                 Best Available Retrofit Technology under this section may apply to
                 the Division and the U.S. EPA Administrator for an exemption.

                 XIV.D.2.c.(i) An application under this section must include all
                        available documentation relevant to the impact of the
                        source's emissions on visibility in any Class I area and a
                        demonstration by the existing stationary facility that it does
                        not or will not by itself or in combination with other sources,



                                                                                      318
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                        emit any air pollutant that may be reasonably anticipated to
                        cause or contribute to a significant impairment of visibility in
                        any Class I area.

                 XIV.D.2.c.(ii) Any fossil fuel fired power plant with a total generating
                        capacity of 750 megawatts or more may receive an
                        exemption from Best Available Retrofit Technology only if the
                        owner or operator of such power plant demonstrates to the
                        satisfaction of the Division that such power plant is located at
                        such a distance from all Class I areas that such power plant
                        does not or will not by itself or in combination with other
                        sources emit any air pollutant that may reasonably be
                        anticipated to cause or contribute to significant impairment of
                        visibility in any such Class I area.

                 XIV.D.2.c.(iii) The existing stationary facility must give prior written
                        notice to all affected Federal Land Managers of any
                        application for exemption.

                 XIV.D.2.c.(iv) The Federal Land Manager may provide an initial
                        recommendation or comment on the disposition of such
                        application. Such recommendation, where provided, must be
                        part of the exemption application. This recommendation is
                        not to be construed as the concurrence required under
                        Section XIV.D.2.c.(iv).

                 XIV.D.2.c.(v) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, before
                        the Commission, the Division may grant or deny the
                        exemption.

                 XIV.D.2.c.(vi) An exemption granted by the Division under this
                        section will be effective only upon concurrence by all
                        affected Federal Land Managers.




                                                                                       319
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                     XIV.D.2.c.(vii)       Any determination shall be made on a case-by-
                            case basis taking into account the geographic extent,
                            intensity, duration, frequency and time of the visibility
                            impairment, and how these factors correlate with time of
                            visitor use of the Class I area, and the frequency and timing
                            of natural conditions that reduce visibility.

              XIV.D.2.d.    The Division shall process any application for a permit
                     required by Section XIV.D.2., or any application for exemption
                     under Section XIV.D.2.b., according to the time constraints stated in
                     Part B, Section III.B. of this regulation. All applications for permits or
                     exemptions will be subject to public notice and public hearing
                     requirements applicable to sources subject to the provisions of
                     Section VI. of this part. Processing fees will be charged to the
                     applicant to recover actual costs incurred by the Division as stated
                     in Section VI. of Part A of this Regulation Number 3.

XIV.E. New Source Review

      Applicants for new major stationary sources and major modifications shall
      demonstrate that the proposed source will not have an adverse impact on
      visibility in a Class I area as required by Sections V.A.6., VI.A.6., and XIII. of this
      part.

XIV.F. Long-term Strategy

      XIV.F.1.       The Commission shall review and revise, if appropriate, the long-
              term strategy every five years.

              XIV.F.1.a.    During the long-term strategy development and review
                     process, the Commission shall consult with the Federal Land
                     Managers.

              XIV.F.1.b.    A public hearing shall be held upon request of any interested
                     person. The state shall provide written notification to each affected




                                                                                          320
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    Federal Land Manager and other affected states at least sixty days
                    prior to holding any public hearing.

             XIV.F.1.c.    The Division shall prepare a report for the Commission on
                    any progress made toward the national visibility goal since the last
                    long-term strategy revisions. The report will be made available on
                    September 1, at least every fifth year following the submittal of the
                    previous report and consistent with the federal five-year Regional
                    Haze reporting schedule. The report shall include an assessment
                    of:

                    XIV.F.1.c.(i) The progress achieved in remedying existing
                           impairment of visibility in any Class I area;

                    XIV.F.1.c.(ii) The ability of the long-term strategy to prevent future
                           impairment of visibility in any Class I area;

                    XIV.F.1.c.(iii) Any change in visibility since the last such report, or in
                           the case of the first report, since plan approval, including an
                           assessment of existing conditions;

                    XIV.F.1.c.(iv) Additional measures, including the need for state
                           implementation plan revisions, that may be necessary to
                           assure reasonable progress toward the national visibility
                           goal;

                    XIV.F.1.c.(v) The progress achieved in implementing Best Available
                           Retrofit Technology and meeting other schedules set forth in
                           the long-term strategy;

                    XIV.F.1.c.(vi) The impact of any exemption granted under Section
                           XIV.D.2.c.; and,

                    XIV.F.1.c.(vii) The need for Best Available Retrofit Technology to
                           remedy existing impairment in an integral vista declared
                           since plan approval.

XIV.G. Public Land Emission Inventories


                                                                                         321
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     XIV.G.1.    Federal Public Lands

           XIV.G.1.a.   For the purposes of this Section XIV.G., federal land
                 management agency means a federal agency that owns and
                 manages at least 50,000 acres of federal land in Colorado.

           XIV.G.1.b.   Federal land management agencies shall submit to the
                 Commission emission inventories by December 31, 2001 and no
                 less frequently than every five years thereafter.

           XIV.G.1.c.   The inventory shall include the sources listed in Section
                 XIV.G.3.b. of this regulation and emissions of criteria pollutants,
                 including surrogates or precursors for such pollutants, from
                 activities in Colorado or other states that may affect any mandatory
                 class I federal area in Colorado by reducing visibility in such area.

     XIV.G.2.    Colorado State Public lands

           XIV.G.2.a.   The Division shall submit to the Commission emission
                 inventories for all state land management agencies including the
                 State Land Board, the Department of Agriculture, and the
                 Department of Natural Resources by July 1, 2002 and no less
                 frequently than every five years thereafter.

           XIV.G.2.b.   The inventory shall include the sources listed in Section
                 XIV.G.3.b. of this regulation and emissions of criteria pollutants,
                 including surrogates or precursors for such pollutants, from
                 activities in Colorado that may affect any mandatory Class I federal
                 area in Colorado by reducing visibility in such area.

     XIV.G.3.    Public Land Emission Inventory Requirements

           XIV.G.3.a.   The inventory shall include both current emissions and
                 projected future emissions, over at least a five-year period.

           XIV.G.3.b.   The following sources on public lands shall be included in
                 the inventory:



                                                                                       322
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                      XIV.G.3.b.(i) Stationary source emissions, based on existing air
                             pollution emission notices filed with the Division;

                      XIV.G.3.b.(ii) Mobile sources utilizing state lands, excluding state
                             and federal highways;

                      XIV.G.3.b.(iii) Paved and unpaved roads;

                      XIV.G.3.b.(iv) Fires on public lands from all sources; and

                      XIV.G.3.b.(v) Biogenic sources, including emissions from flora and
                             fauna.

      XIV.G.4.        Public Hearings

             Not later than December 31, 2002, and no less frequently than every five
             years thereafter, a public hearing before the Commission shall be
             conducted to approve the public land emission inventories.

XV.   Actuals PALs
XV.A. Applicability

      XV.A.1.         At the request of an owner or operator, the Division may approve
             the use of an actuals PAL, including for GHGs on either a mass basis or a
             CO2e basis, in a Title V permit for any existing major stationary source or
             any existing GHG-only source that has operated for at least two years if
             the PAL meets the requirements in Sections XV.A. through XV.L. The term
             “PAL” shall mean “actuals PAL” throughout Section XV. of this part.

      XV.A.2.         Any physical change in or change in the method of operation of a
             major stationary source or a GHG-only source that maintains its total
             source-wide emissions below the PAL level, meets the requirements in
             Sections XV.A. through XV.L., and complies with the PAL permit:

             XV.A.2.a.       Is not a major modification for the PAL pollutant;

             XV.A.2.b.       Is not subject to the major NSR review procedures in
                      Sections I.B., V., and VI. of this part;




                                                                                         323
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             XV.A.2.c.       Is not subject to the provisions in Section V.A.5.b. of this part
                     (restrictions on relaxing enforceable emission limitations that the
                     major stationary source used to avoid applicability of the major
                     NSR program); and

             XV.A.2.d.       Does not make GHGs subject to regulation as defined in
                     Part A, Section I.B.53.

      XV.A.3.        Except as provided under Section XV.A.2.c., a major stationary
             source or a GHG-only source shall continue to comply with all applicable
             Federal or State requirements, emission limitations, and work practice
             requirements that were established prior to the effective date of the PAL.

XV.B. Permit application requirements

      As part of a permit application requesting a PAL, the owner or operator of a major
      stationary or a GHG-only source shall submit the following information to the
      Division for approval (in addition to the information required by Part C of this
      Regulation):

      XV.B.1.        A list of all emissions units at the source designated as small (as
             defined in Section II.A.47. of this part), significant (as defined in Section
             II.A.46. of this part), and major (as defined in Section II.A.22. of this part)
             based on their potential to emit, and identifying each as such. In addition,
             the owner or operator of the source shall indicate which, if any, Federal or
             State applicable requirements, emission limitations or work practices apply
             to each unit.

      XV.B.2.        Calculations of the baseline actual emissions for each emissions
             unit listed in Section XV.B.1. (with supporting documentation). Baseline
             actual emissions are to include emissions associated not only with
             operation of the unit, but also emissions associated with startup, shutdown
             and malfunction.

      XV.B.3.        The calculation procedures that the major stationary source owner
             or operator proposes to use to convert the monitoring data to monthly



                                                                                          324
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            emissions and annual emissions based on a twelve-month rolling total for
            each month as required by Section XV.M.1.

      XV.B.4.      As part of a permit application requesting a GHG PAL, the owner or
            operator of a major stationary source or a GHG-only source shall submit a
            statement by the source owner or operator that clarifies whether the
            source is an existing major source as defined in Sections II.A.24.a. and
            II.A.24.b. or a GHG-only source as defined in Section XV.P.1.

XV.C. General requirements for establishing PALs

      XV.C.1.      A PAL may be established at a major stationary source or a GHG-
            only source, provided that, at a minimum, the requirements in Sections
            XV.C.1.a. through XV.C.1.g. are met.

            XV.C.1.a.     The PAL shall impose an annual emission limitation
                   expressed on a mass basis in tons per year, or expressed in tons
                   per year CO2e, that is enforceable as a practical matter, for the
                   entire major stationary source or GHG-only source. For each month
                   during the PAL effective period after the first twelve months of
                   establishing a PAL, the major stationary source or GHG-only source
                   owner or operator shall demonstrate that the sum of the monthly
                   emissions of the PAL pollutant from each emissions unit under the
                   PAL for the previous twelve consecutive months is less than the
                   PAL (a rolling twelve-month total). For each month during the first
                   eleven months from the PAL effective date, the major stationary
                   source or GHG-only source owner or operator shall demonstrate
                   that the sum of the preceding monthly emissions of the PAL
                   pollutant for each emissions unit under the PAL is less than the
                   PAL.

            XV.C.1.b.     The PAL shall be established in a PAL permit section of an
                   operating permit issued pursuant to Part C of this regulation that
                   meets the public participation requirements in Section XV.D.




                                                                                       325
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             XV.C.1.c.      The PAL permit shall contain all the requirements of Section
                    XV.F.

             XV.C.1.d.      The PAL shall include fugitive emissions, to the extent
                    quantifiable, from all emissions units that emit or have the potential
                    to emit the PAL pollutant at the major stationary source or GHG-
                    only source.

             XV.C.1.e.      Each PAL shall regulate emissions of only one pollutant.

             XV.C.1.f.      Each PAL shall have a PAL effective period of ten years.

             XV.C.1.g.      The owner or operator of the major stationary source or
                    GHG-only source with a PAL shall comply with the monitoring,
                    recordkeeping, and reporting requirements provided in Sections
                    XV.K. through XV.N. for each emissions unit under the PAL
                    throughout the PAL effective period.

      XV.C.2.       At no time (during or after the PAL effective period) are emissions
             reductions of a PAL pollutant, which occur during the PAL effective period,
             creditable as decreases for purposes of offsets under Section V. unless
             the level of the PAL is reduced by the amount of such emissions
             reductions and such reductions would be creditable in the absence of the
             PAL.

XV.D. Public participation requirement for PALs

      PALs for existing major stationary sources or GHG-only sources shall be
      established, renewed, or increased in accordance with the significant
      modification provisions set forth in Section I.A.7.of Part C of this regulation. The
      Division shall provide the public with notice of the proposed approval of a PAL
      permit and a thirty-day period for submittal of public comment.

XV.E. Setting the ten-year actuals PAL level

      XV.E.1.       Except as provided in Sections XV.E.4. and XV.E.6., the actuals
             PAL level for a major stationary source or GHG-only source shall be
             established as the sum of the baseline actual emissions (as defined in


                                                                                        326
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           Section II.A.4. of this Part D or, for GHGs in Section XV.P.2.) of the PAL
           pollutant for each emissions unit at the source, plus an amount equal to
           the applicable significant level for the PAL pollutant under Section II.A.44.
           of this part, or under the Federal Act, whichever is lower.

     XV.E.2.      When establishing the actuals PAL level for a PAL pollutant, only
           one consecutive twenty-four month period may be used to determine the
           baseline actual emissions for all existing emissions units. However, a
           different consecutive twenty-four month period may be used for each
           different PAL pollutant.

     XV.E.3.      Emissions associated with units that were permanently shut down
           after this twenty-four month period must be subtracted from the PAL level.

     XV.E.4.      For newly constructed units (which do not include modifications to
           existing units) on which actual construction began after the twenty-four
           month period, in lieu of adding the baseline actual emissions as specified
           in Section XV.E.1., the emissions must be added to the PAL level in an
           amount equal to the potential to emit of the units.

     XV.E.5.      The Division shall specify a reduced PAL level(s) (in tons/yr) in the
           PAL permit to become effective on the future compliance date(s) of any
           applicable Federal or State regulatory requirement(s) that the Division is
           aware of prior to issuance of the PAL permit. For instance, if the source
           owner or operator will be required to reduce emissions from industrial
           boilers in half from baseline emissions of 60 ppm NOx to a new rule limit
           of 30 ppm, then the permit shall contain a future effective PAL level that is
           equal to the current PAL level reduced by half of the original baseline
           emissions of such unit(s).

     XV.E.6.      For CO2e based GHG PAL, the actuals PAL level shall be
           established as the sum of the GHGs baseline actual emissions (as defined
           in Section XV.P.2.) of GHGs for each emissions unit at the source, plus an
           amount equal to the amount defined as “significant” on a CO2e basis for




                                                                                      327
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            the purposes of Part A, Section I.B.53.c. at the time the PAL permit is
            being issued.

            XV.E.6.a.       When establishing the actuals PAL level for a CO2e-based
                   PAL, only one consecutive 24-month period must be used to
                   determine the baseline actual emissions units.

            XV.E.6.b.       Emissions associated with units that were permanently shut
                   down after this 24-month period must be subtracted from the PAL
                   level.

            XV.E.6.c.       The Division shall specify a reduced PAL level in tons per
                   year CO2e in the PAL permit to become effective on the future
                   compliance date(s) of any applicable Federal or state regulatory
                   requirement(s) that the Division is aware of prior to issuance of the
                   PAL permit.

XV.F. Contents of the PAL permit

      The PAL permit shall contain, at a minimum, the information in Sections XV.F.1.
      through XV.F.11.

      XV.F.1.      The PAL pollutant and the applicable source-wide emission
            limitation in tons per year CO2e.

      XV.F.2.      The PAL permit effective date and the expiration date of the PAL
            (PAL effective period).

      XV.F.3.      Specification in the PAL permit that if a major stationary source or a
            GHG-only source owner or operator applies to renew a PAL in accordance
            with Section XV.I. before the end of the PAL effective period, then the PAL
            shall not expire at the end of the PAL effective period. It shall remain in
            effect until a revised PAL permit is issued by the Division.

      XV.F.4.      A requirement that emission calculations for compliance
            determination purposes include emissions from startups, shutdowns and
            malfunctions.



                                                                                          328
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      XV.F.5.       A requirement that, once the PAL expires, the major stationary
            source or GHG-only source is subject to the requirements of Section
            XV.H.

      XV.F.6.       The calculation procedures that the major stationary source or
            GHG-only source owner or operator shall use to convert the monitoring
            data to monthly emissions and annual emissions based on a twelve-month
            rolling total for each month as required by Section XV.M.1.

      XV.F.7.       A requirement that the major stationary source or GHG-only source
            owner or operator monitors all emissions units in accordance with the
            provisions under Section XV.K.

      XV.F.8.       A requirement to retain the records required under Section XV.M.
            on site. Such records may be retained in an electronic format.

      XV.F.9.       A requirement to submit the reports required under Section XV.N.
            by the required deadlines.

      XV.F.10.      Any other requirements that the Division deems necessary to
            implement and enforce the PAL.

      XV.F.11.      A permit for a GHG PAL issued to a GHG-only source shall also
            include a statement denoting that GHG emissions at the source will not be
            subject to regulation under Part A, Section I.B.53. as long as the source
            complies with the PAL.

XV.G. Reopening of the PAL permit

      XV.G.1.             During the PAL effective period, the Division shall reopen the
            PAL permit to:

            XV.G.1.a.     Correct typographical/calculation errors made in setting the
                    PAL or reflect a more accurate determination of emissions used to
                    establish the PAL.




                                                                                     329
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             XV.G.1.b.      Reduce the PAL if the owner or operator of the major
                    stationary source creates creditable emissions reductions for use
                    as offsets under Section V.A.3. of this Part D.

             XV.G.1.c.      Revise the PAL to reflect an increase in the PAL as provided
                    under Section XV.J.

      XV.G.2.               The Division has discretion to reopen the PAL permit to:

             XV.G.2.a.      Reduce the PAL to reflect newly applicable Federal
                    requirements (for example, NSPS) with compliance dates after the
                    PAL effective date.

             XV.G.2.b.      Reduce the PAL consistent with any other requirement, that
                    is enforceable as a practical matter, and that the Division may
                    impose on the major stationary source or GHG-only source.

             XV.G.2.c.      Reduce the PAL if the Division determines that a reduction is
                    necessary to avoid causing or contributing to a NAAQS or PSD
                    increment violation, or to an adverse impact on an air quality
                    related value that has been identified for a Federal Class I area by
                    a Federal Land Manager and for which information is available to
                    the general public.

      XV.G.3.               Except for the permit reopening in Section XV.G.1.a. for the
             correction of typographical or calculation errors that do not increase the
             PAL level, all other reopening’s shall be carried out in accordance with the
             public participation requirements of Section XV.D.

XV.H. Expiration of a PAL

      Any PAL that is not renewed in accordance with the procedures in Section XV.I.
      shall expire at the end of the PAL effective period, and the requirements in
      Sections XV.H.1. through XV.H.5. shall apply.

      XV.H.1.       Each emissions unit (or each group of emissions units) that existed
             under the PAL shall comply with an allowable emission limitation under a



                                                                                       330
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           revised permit established according to the procedures in Sections
           XV.H.1. through XV.H.5. of this part.

           XV.H.1.a.     Within the time frame specified for PAL renewals in Section
                  XV.I.2., the major stationary source or GHG-only source shall
                  submit a proposed allowable emission limitation for each emissions
                  unit (or each group of emissions units, if such a distribution is more
                  appropriate as determined by the Division) by distributing the PAL
                  allowable emissions for the major stationary source or GHG-only
                  source among each of the emissions units that existed under the
                  PAL. If the PAL had not yet been adjusted for an applicable
                  requirement that became effective during the PAL effective period,
                  as required under Section XV.I.5., such distribution shall be made
                  as if the PAL had been adjusted.

           XV.H.1.b.     The Division shall determine whether and how the PAL
                  allowable emissions will be distributed and issue a revised permit
                  incorporating allowable limits for each emissions unit, or each
                  group of emissions units, as the Division determines is appropriate.

     XV.H.2.      Each emissions unit(s) shall comply with the allowable emission
           limitation on a twelve-month rolling total basis. The Division may approve
           the use of monitoring systems (source testing, emission factors, etc.) other
           than CEMS, CERMS, PEMS or CPMS to demonstrate compliance with
           the allowable emission limitation.

     XV.H.3.      Until the Division issues the revised permit incorporating allowable
           limits for each emissions unit, or each group of emissions units, as
           required under Section XV.H.1.a., the source shall continue to comply with
           a source-wide, multi-unit emissions cap equivalent to the level of the PAL
           emission limitation.

     XV.H.4.      Any physical change or change in the method of operation at the
           major stationary source or GHG-only source will be subject to the major




                                                                                     331
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             NSR requirements if such change meets the definition of major
             modification in Section II.A.23. of this Part D.

      XV.H.5.       The major stationary source or GHG-only source owner or operator
             shall continue to comply with any State or Federal applicable requirements
             that may have applied either during the PAL effective period or prior to the
             PAL effective period except for those emission limitations that had been
             established pursuant to Sections V.A.7.b. and VI.B.4. of this part, but were
             eliminated by the PAL in accordance with the provisions in Section
             XV.A.2.c.

XV.I. Renewal of a PAL

      XV.I.1. The Division shall follow the procedures specified in Section XV.D. in
             approving any request to renew a PAL for a major stationary source or
             GHG-only source, and shall provide both the proposed PAL level and a
             written rationale for the proposed PAL level to the public for review and
             comment. During such public review, any person may propose a PAL level
             for the source for consideration by the Division.

      XV.I.2. Application deadline

             A major stationary source or GHG-only source owner or operator shall
             submit a timely application to the Division to request renewal of a PAL. A
             timely application is one that is submitted at least twelve months prior to,
             but not earlier than eighteen months from, the date of PAL permit
             expiration. This deadline for application submittal is to ensure that the
             permit will not expire before the permit is renewed. If the owner or
             operator of a major stationary source or GHG-only source submits a
             complete application , including any additional information requested by
             the Division, to renew the PAL within this time period, then the PAL shall
             continue to be effective until the revised permit with the renewed PAL is
             issued.

      XV.I.3. Application requirements



                                                                                         332
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           The application to renew a PAL permit shall contain the information
           required in Sections XV.I.3.a. through XV.I.3.d.

           XV.I.3.a.     The information required in Sections XV.B.1. through XV.B.3.
                  of this part.

           XV.I.3.b.     A proposed PAL level.

           XV.I.3.c.     The sum of the potential to emit of all emissions units under
                  the PAL (with supporting documentation).

           XV.I.3.d.     Any other information the owner or operator wishes the
                  Division to consider in determining the appropriate level for
                  renewing the PAL.

     XV.I.4. PAL adjustment

           In determining whether and how to adjust the PAL, the Division shall
           consider the options outlined in Sections XV.I.4.a. and XV.I.4.b. However,
           in no case may any such adjustment fail to comply with Section XV.I.4.c.

           XV.I.4.a.     If the emissions level calculated in accordance with Section
                  XV.E. is equal to or greater than eighty percent of the PAL level, the
                  Division may renew the PAL at the same level without considering
                  the factors set forth in Section XV.I.4.b.; or

           XV.I.4.b.     The Division may set the PAL at a level that it determines to
                  be more representative of the source's baseline actual emissions,
                  or that it determines to be appropriate considering air quality needs,
                  advances in control technology, anticipated economic growth in the
                  area, desire to reward or encourage the source's voluntary
                  emissions reductions, or other factors as specifically identified by
                  the Division in its preliminary analysis or technical review
                  document.

           XV.I.4.c.     Notwithstanding Sections XV.I.4.a. and XV.I.4.b.




                                                                                     333
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                    XV.I.4.c.(i)    If the potential to emit of the major stationary source
                             or GHG-only source is less than the PAL, the Division shall
                             adjust the PAL to a level no greater than the potential to emit
                             of the source; and

                    XV.I.4.c.(ii)   The Division shall not approve a renewed PAL level
                             higher than the current PAL, unless the major stationary
                             source or GHG-only source has complied with the provisions
                             of Section XV.J. (increasing a PAL).

      XV.I.5. If the compliance date for a State or Federal requirement that applies to
             the PAL source occurs during the PAL effective period, and if the Division
             has not already adjusted for such requirement, the PAL shall be adjusted
             at the time of PAL permit renewal or Title V permit renewal, whichever
             occurs first.

XV.J. Increasing a PAL during the PAL effective period

      XV.J.1.       The Division may increase a PAL emission limitation only if the
             major stationary source or GHG-only source complies with the provisions
             in Sections XV.J.1.a. through XV.J.1.d.

             XV.J.1.a.       The owner or operator of the major stationary source or
                    GHG-only source shall submit a complete application to request an
                    increase in the PAL limit for a PAL major modification. Such
                    application shall identify the emissions unit(s) contributing to the
                    increase in emissions so as to cause the major stationary or GHG-
                    only source's emissions to equal or exceed its PAL.

             XV.J.1.b.       As part of this application, the major stationary source or
                    GHG-only source owner or operator shall demonstrate that the sum
                    of the baseline actual emissions of the small emissions units, plus
                    the sum of the baseline actual emissions of the significant and
                    major emissions units assuming application of BACT equivalent
                    controls, plus the sum of the allowable emissions of the new or



                                                                                           334
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                   modified emissions unit(s) exceeds the PAL. The level of control
                   that would result from BACT equivalent controls on each significant
                   or major emissions unit shall be determined by conducting a new
                   BACT analysis at the time the application is submitted, unless the
                   emissions unit is currently required to comply with a BACT or LAER
                   requirement that was established within the preceding ten years. In
                   such a case, the assumed control level for that emissions unit shall
                   be equal to the level of BACT or LAER with which that emissions
                   unit must currently comply.

            XV.J.1.c.     The owner or operator obtains a major NSR permit for all
                   emissions unit(s) identified in Section XV.J.1.a., regardless of the
                   magnitude of the emissions increase resulting from them (that is,
                   no significant levels apply). These emissions unit(s) shall comply
                   with any emissions requirements resulting from the major NSR
                   process (for example, BACT or LAER), even though they have also
                   become subject to the PAL or continue to be subject to the PAL.

            XV.J.1.d.     The PAL permit shall require that the increased PAL level
                   shall be effective on the day any emissions unit that is part of the
                   PAL major modification becomes operational and begins to emit the
                   PAL pollutant.

      XV.J.2.      The Division shall calculate the new PAL as the sum of the
            allowable emissions for each modified or new emissions unit, plus the sum
            of the baseline actual emissions of the significant and major emissions
            units (assuming application of BACT equivalent controls as determined in
            accordance with Section XV.J.1.b.), plus the sum of the baseline actual
            emissions of the small emissions units.

      XV.J.3.      The PAL permit shall be revised to reflect the increased PAL level
            pursuant to the public notice requirements of Section XV.D. of this part.

XV.K. Monitoring requirements for PALs




                                                                                      335
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     XV.K.1.     General Requirements

           XV.K.1.a.    Each PAL permit shall contain enforceable requirements for
                 the monitoring system that accurately determines plant-wide
                 emissions of the PAL pollutant in terms of mass per unit of time or
                 CO2e per unit of time. Any monitoring system authorized for use in
                 the PAL permit must be based on sound science and meet
                 generally acceptable scientific procedures for data quality and
                 manipulation. Additionally, the information generated by such
                 system must meet minimum legal requirements for admissibility in a
                 judicial proceeding to enforce the PAL permit.

           XV.K.1.b.    The PAL monitoring system must employ one or more of the
                 four general monitoring approaches meeting the minimum
                 requirements set forth in Sections XV.K.2.a. through XV.K.2.d. and
                 must be approved by the Division.

           XV.K.1.c.    Notwithstanding Section XV.K.1.b., you may also employ an
                 alternative monitoring approach that meets the requirements of
                 Section XV.K.1.a. if approved by the Division.

           XV.K.1.d.    Failure to use a monitoring system that meets the
                 requirements of this Section renders the PAL invalid.

     XV.K.2.     Minimum Performance Requirements for Approved Monitoring
           Approaches

           The following are acceptable general monitoring approaches when
           conducted in accordance with the minimum requirements in Sections
           XV.K.3. through XV.K.9:

           XV.K.2.a.    Mass balance calculations for activities using coatings or
                 solvents;

           XV.K.2.b.    CEMS (as defined in Section I.B.14. of Part A);

           XV.K.2.c.    CPMS or PEMS (as defined in Sections I.B.19. and I.B.44.,
                 respectively, of Part A); and


                                                                                     336
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           XV.K.2.d.    Published, verifiable emission factors

     XV.K.3.     Mass Balance Calculations

           An owner or operator using mass balance calculations to monitor PAL
           pollutant emissions from activities using coating or solvents shall meet the
           following requirements:

           XV.K.3.a.    Provide a demonstrated means of validating the published
                 content of the PAL pollutant that is contained in or created by all
                 materials used in or at the emissions unit;

           XV.K.3.b.    Assume that the emissions unit emits all of the PAL pollutant
                 that is contained in or created by any raw material or fuel used in or
                 at the emissions unit, if it cannot otherwise be accounted for in the
                 process; and

           XV.K.3.c.    Where the vendor of a material or fuel, which is used in or at
                 the emissions unit, publishes a range of pollutant content from such
                 material, the owner or operator must use the highest value of the
                 range to calculate the PAL pollutant emissions unless the Division
                 determines there is site-specific data or a site-specific monitoring
                 program to support another content within the range.

     XV.K.4.     CEMS

           An owner or operator using CEMS to monitor PAL pollutant emissions
           shall meet the following requirements:

           XV.K.4.a.    CEMS must comply with applicable Performance
                 Specifications found in the Code of Federal Regulations Title 40,
                 Part 60, Appendix B, and Part 75; and

           XV.K.4.b.    CEMS must sample, analyze and record data at least every
                 fifteen minutes while the emissions unit is operating.

     XV.K.5.     CPMS or PEMS




                                                                                       337
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           An owner or operator using CPMS or PEMS to monitor PAL pollutant
           emissions shall meet the following requirements:

           XV.K.5.a.     The CPMS or the PEMS must be based on current site
                  specific data demonstrating a correlation between the monitored
                  parameter(s) and the PAL pollutant emissions across the range of
                  operation of the emissions unit; and

           XV.K.5.b.     Each CPMS or PEMS must sample, analyze, and record
                  data at least every fifteen minutes, or at another less frequent
                  interval approved by the Division, while the emissions unit is
                  operating.

     XV.K.6.      Emission factors

           An owner or operator using emission factors to monitor PAL pollutant
           emissions shall meet the following requirements:

           XV.K.6.a.     All emission factors shall be adjusted, if appropriate, to
                  account for the degree of uncertainty or limitations in the factors'
                  development;

           XV.K.6.b.     The emissions unit shall operate within the designated range
                  of use for the emission factor, if applicable; and

           XV.K.6.c.     If technically practicable, the owner or operator of a
                  significant emissions unit that relies on an emission factor to
                  calculate PAL pollutant emissions shall conduct validation testing to
                  determine a site-specific emission factor within six months of PAL
                  permit issuance, unless the Division determines that testing is not
                  required.

     XV.K.7.      A source owner or operator must record and report maximum
           potential emissions without considering enforceable emission limitations or
           operational restrictions for an emissions unit during any period of time that
           there is no monitoring data, unless another method for determining
           emissions during such periods is specified in the PAL permit.


                                                                                      338
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      XV.K.8.         Notwithstanding the requirements in Sections XV.K.3. through
            XV.K.7., where an owner or operator of an emissions unit cannot
            demonstrate a correlation between the monitored parameter(s) and the
            PAL pollutant emissions rate at all operating points of the emissions unit,
            the Division shall, at the time of permit issuance:

            XV.K.8.a.        Establish default value(s) for determining compliance with
                      the PAL based on the highest potential emissions reasonably
                      estimated at such operating point(s); or

            XV.K.8.b.        Determine that operation of the emissions unit during
                      operating conditions when there is no correlation between
                      monitored parameter(s) and the PAL pollutant emissions is a
                      violation of the PAL.

XV.L. Re-validation

      All data used to establish the PAL pollutant must be re-validated through
      performance testing or other scientifically valid means approved by the Division.
      Such testing must occur at least once every five years after issuance of the PAL.

XV.M. Recordkeeping requirements

      XV.M.1.         The PAL permit shall require an owner or operator to retain a copy
            of all records necessary to determine compliance with any requirement of
            Section XV. of this part and of the PAL, including a determination of each
            emissions unit's twelve-month rolling total emissions, for five years from
            the date of such record.

      XV.M.2.         The PAL permit shall require an owner or operator to retain a copy
            of the following records for the duration of the PAL effective period plus
            five years:

            XV.M.2.a.        A copy of the PAL permit application and any applications for
                      revisions to the PAL; and

            XV.M.2.b.        Each annual certification of compliance pursuant to Part C of
                      this regulation, and the data relied on in certifying the compliance.


                                                                                         339
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

XV.N. Reporting and notification requirements

      The owner or operator shall submit semi-annual monitoring reports and prompt
      deviation reports to the Division in accordance with the requirements of the
      applicable Title V permit and Section V.C.7. of Part C of this regulation. The
      reports shall meet the requirements in Sections XV.K.11.a. through XV.K.11.c.

      XV.N.1.       Semi-Annual Report

             The semi-annual report shall be submitted to the Division within thirty days
             of the end of each reporting period. This report shall contain the
             information required by the Title V permit, Section V.C.7.a. of Part C of this
             regulation, and Sections XV.N.1.a. through XV.N.1.g.

             XV.N.1.a.     The identification of owner and operator and the permit
                    number.

             XV.N.1.b.     Total annual emissions (expressed on a mass-basis in tons
                    per year, or expressed in tons per year CO2e) based on a twelve-
                    month rolling total for each month in the reporting period recorded
                    pursuant to Section XV.K.10.a.

             XV.N.1.c.     All data relied upon, including, but not limited to, any Quality
                    Assurance or Quality Control data, in calculating the monthly and
                    annual PAL pollutant emissions shall be made available upon
                    request by the Division.

             XV.N.1.d.     A list of any emissions units modified or added to the major
                    stationary source or GHG-only source during the preceding six-
                    month period.

             XV.N.1.e.     The number, duration, and cause of any deviations or
                    monitoring malfunctions (other than the time associated with zero
                    and span calibration checks), and any corrective action taken.

             XV.N.1.f.     A notification of a shutdown of any monitoring system,
                    whether the shutdown was permanent or temporary, the reason for
                    the shutdown, the anticipated date that the monitoring system will


                                                                                        340
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                  be fully operational or replaced with another monitoring system,
                  whether the emissions unit(s) monitored by the monitoring system
                  continued to operate, and calculations of emissions from those
                  units as provided by Section XV.K.7. of this part.

           XV.N.1.g.        A signed statement by the responsible official (as defined in
                  Section I.B.46. of Part A of this regulation) certifying the truth,
                  accuracy, and completeness of the information provided in the
                  report.

     XV.N.2.      Deviation report

           The major stationary source or GHG-only source owner or operator shall
           promptly submit reports of any deviations or exceedance of the PAL
           requirements, including periods where no monitoring is available. A report
           submitted pursuant to Section V.C.7.b. of Part C of this regulation shall
           satisfy this reporting requirement. The deviation reports shall be submitted
           within the time limits prescribed by Section V.C.7.b. of Part C. The reports
           shall contain the following information:

           XV.N.2.a.        The identification of owner and operator and the permit
                  number;

           XV.N.2.b.        The PAL requirement that experienced the deviation or that
                  was exceeded;

           XV.N.2.c.        Emissions resulting from the deviation or the exceedance;
                  and

           XV.N.2.d.        A signed statement by the responsible official (as defined in
                  Section I.B.46. of Part A of this regulation) certifying the truth,
                  accuracy, and completeness of the information provided in the
                  report.

     XV.N.3.      Re-validation results




                                                                                        341
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             The owner or operator shall submit to the Division the results of any
             revalidation test or method within three months after completion of such
             test or method.

XV.O. If any provision of this Section, or the application of such provision to any person
      or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this Section, or the application
      of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
      held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.

PART E       RESERVED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Reserved for Environmental Management Systems




                                                                                       342
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

PART F        STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND
PURPOSE
I.A.   Adopted June 5, 1980
Rational and Justification for the Repeal and Repromulgation of Regulation
Number 3 and Common Provisions Regulation as Related to Regulation Number 3

On December 14, 1978, the Air Quality Control Commission revised Regulation Number
3 (concerning requirements for filing air pollution emission notices, obtaining emission
permits, and payment of fees with respect to both) for the primary purpose of bringing
Colorado's air pollutant emission permit program into conformity with the requirements
of the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 to the extent authorized by the then
effective State statutory authority: “The Air Pollution Control Act of 1970, “C.R.S. 1973,
25-7-101 et seq. The regulation as revised in 1978 and which became effective January
30, 1972, was submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a revision to
the state Implementation Plan (“SIP”) pursuant to Subsection 129(c) of the Federal
Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977.

Since that submittal, the Colorado General Assembly has repealed and reenacted the
State's basic air pollution control statute: Article 7 of Title 25, Colorado Revised
Statutes, 1973. The new article, known as the “Colorado Air Quality Control Act”
(designated House Bill 1109 in the 1979 legislative session), became effective June 20,
1979, and largely brought the State statute into conformity with the Federal legislation,
mandating the Commission to develop a comprehensive air pollution control program
meeting the requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act.

Revisions also respond to the requirements set forth in the October 5, 1979 Federal
Register notice which conditionally approved portions of the Colorado SIP and set forth
certain requirements for securing their unconditional approval. E.G., see Section
IV.D.2.a.(iv) of revised Regulation Number 3, which incorporates the requirements of
Section l72(b)(II)(A) of the Clean Air Act. 44 Fed. Reg. 57401, 57408 (1979).




                                                                                        343
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has made an effort to formulate a permit program meeting the
requirement of and paralleling of the provisions EPA policies and rules to the extent
authorized by House Bill 1109 and to the extent deemed appropriate by the Commission
for Colorado's particular circumstances. This has been done in order to meet certain
specific requirements expressly set forth in the Federal Clean Air Act, to meet certain
specific requirements EPA has determined are required for compliance with the Federal
Act, and to avoid subjecting sources of air pollution in Colorado to differing State and
Federal requirements. The Commission considered the assurance of reasonable further
progress toward attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards as the primary
underlying criterion in developing permit requirements for sources located in or near
nonattainment areas. Consideration has also been given to the opinion of the United
States Court of appeals for the District of Columbia in the case of Alabama Power
Company v. Costle F.2d (D.C. Cir., 1979).

APENs

In order to reduce the administrative burden on both the Air Pollution Control Division
(“the Division”) and owners and operators of air pollution sources, the filing of revised air
pollution emission notices for the purpose of reporting significant changes in emissions
will be required only on an annual basis, rather than whenever a significant change in
emissions occurs. In making this revision, the Commission relied on the representations
of the Division that annual reporting would be sufficient for purposes of keeping the
emissions inventory current.

Street Sanding

With the exception of street sanding (and indirect sources), the exemptions provided in
the revised regulation from the APEN-filing and emission permit requirements are for
minor or insignificant sources of emissions. Although not finding that particulate
emissions resulting from the application and re-entrainment of “sand” applied to snow or
ice covered roadways as a traffic safety measure are insignificant, the Commission has
exempted sanding from the APEN-filing and permit requirements out of administrative
necessity. Little benefit can be obtained from the filing of APENs in light of the fact that
the amount of emissions cannot be predicted with any reasonable accuracy due to


                                                                                          344
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

varying factors such as weather. APENs would therefore serve little purpose as notices
of expected emissions.

It is the judgment of the Commission that protection of persons and property by sanding
snow and ice covered roadways is an overriding consideration and that the costs of not
taking such safety measures would far outweigh any air quality benefits resulting from
requiring permits for sanding. Sanding should not therefore be prohibited -- even without
a permit. The only reason for imposing a permit requirement would be to facilitate
enforcement of control measures to limit emissions, which the Commission believes
may be accomplished without a permit requirement through emission control regulations
and provisions in local elements of the State Implementation Plan.

Major Source, Major Modifications, and the “bubble” Concept

The Commission has retained requirements that new “major sources” locating in
nonattainment areas and “major modifications” to existing sources in nonattainment
areas meet special requirements (Offsets, LAER, etc.) designed to allow for continued
development in such areas without interfering with reasonable further progress toward
attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The criteria for determining when
a new source or modification to an existing source is “major” however, have been
extensively revised.

Prior to the U.S. Court of Appeals Decision in Alabama Power Company v. Costle, EPA
had defined “potential to emit” -- a key phrase in the definition of “major emitting facility”
-- in terms of uncontrolled emissions. The court however, interpreted the phrase
“potential to emit” as used in the definition of “major emitting facility” in Section 169(1) of
the Clean Air Act as taking “into account the anticipated functioning of the air pollution
control equipment designed into the facility,” thereby drastically reducing the number of
sources qualifying as major. In response to this decision, on September 5, 1979, EPA
proposed amendments to its regulations concerning requirements for SIPs including
those pertaining to prevention of significant deterioration of air quality (“PSL)”) and new
source review in nonattainment areas, as well as EPA's Emission Offset Interpretative
Ruling. 44 Fed. Reg. 51924 (1979). The Commission in reviewing Regulation Number 3
and the Common Provisions Regulation has incorporated many of the amendments


                                                                                           345
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

adopted by EPA in its regulations including classifications of sources as major or minor
based on controlled emissions.

The court in Alabama Power Company struck down the ~PA regulation definition of
“major modification” which definition required the imposition of the special
nonattainment area requirements (Offsets, LAER, etc.) on sources when modifications
resulted in an increase in emissions of a criteria pollutants of 100 tons per year or more
(for certain~ listed categories of sources; 250 tons or more for sources not listed). The
court held that the special nonattainment requirements applied to all modifications of
major emitting facilities except those resulting in only “de minimus” increases in
emissions. The court stated, however, that it would be permissible to look at the net
increase in potential emissions from a major source in determining whether Offsets,
LAER, etc., will be required.

In its proposed rules, EPA has adopted the “net increase” or “bubble” approach which
generally allows a major source undergoing modification to avoid permit review as a
major modification by allowing emission reductions elsewhere at the source to offset
any increases resulting from the proposed modification. The Commission has adopted
the “bubble” concept and many of EPA's specific regulatory provisions with respect to
the concept as applied to modifications.

The court in Alabama Power Company also held that fugitive emissions could be
included in determining whether a source is “major” only to the extent, such emissions
were expressly determined to be included by rule of the EPA administrator. In response,
EPA has proposed a regulatory definition of “Potential to emit” by which fugitive
emissions from twenty-seven (27) listed sources would be included in determinations of
which new sources and modifications are major. 44 Fed. Reg. 51956, 51958 (1979). In
recognition of the fact that such emissions would be included in determinations of
whether a source or modification was major if they were emitted through a stack (as
opposed to being “fugitive”), recognizing that generally emissions from the twenty-seven
(27) listed source categories contribute to hazards to public health and welfare, and to
be consistent with the federal scheme, the Commission has also decided to consider
fugitive emissions from the twenty-seven source categories in major source/major



                                                                                         346
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

modification determinations to the extent they are quantifiable. An owner or operator
may avoid the inclusion of fugitive emissions of particulate matter by demonstrating that
such emissions are of a size and substance, which do not adversely affect public health
or welfare.

Banking

C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-304 requires the attainment program to provide that emission
reduction offsets exceeding those required for the granting of a permit “may be
preserved for sale or use in the future.” Section V of Regulation Number 3 establishes
an administrative framework and the basic requirements of such a procedure consistent
with the “banking” provisions established by EPA in its Emission Offset Interpretative
Ruling, 44 Fed. Keg. 3274, 3280, 3285 (January 16, 1979) (to be codified as Appendix
S to 40 C.R.S. Part 51).

Extended “Debugging” Period.

Pursuant to C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-1 14(4)(j), the Division may grant the owner or operator
of a new source up to six months after commencement of operation in which to
demonstrate compliance with all terms and conditions of its emission permit. The
Commission determined, however, that under certain circumstances it would be
appropriate to allow a source employing innovative control technology additional time in
which to bring the operation of the source into full compliance. Therefore, pursuant to its
authority under C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-109(5), the Commission has provided in paragraph
IV. H.6. of Regulation Number 3 for such temporary relief from controls under specified
limited circumstances. The provision is intended for very limited application.

PSD

Regulation Number 3 does not address the subject of special permits for major sources
locating in attainment areas to insure prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
The Commission decided to wait until EPA's PSD regulations to establish a fully State-
operated program. State emission permits are nonetheless still required for sources
locating in attainment areas.

Common Provisions Regulation



                                                                                          347
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In connection with the revision of Regulation Number 3, the Commission concurrently
made limited, related revisions in its Common Provisions Regulation. Sections I.B. and
I.C. of that regulation have been changed to reflect the renumbering of the Sections in
the State statute authorizing the Commission to promulgate regulations and to reflect
the amended language in the declaration of legislative intent.

Section I.F. of the regulation was amended to add new abbreviations used in revised
Regulation Number 3 and Section I.G. (definitions) was amended to delete, revise, and
add terms and their definitions to reflect changes in the terminology used in Regulation
Number 3.



I.B.   Adopted May 13, 1982
Concerning May 13, 1982 Amendment to Section IV.C. (Public Comment) for Small
Sources Locating in Nonattainment Areas

The rationale for this proposed revision is based on the underlying purpose of public
comment: to obtain public input on proposed sources that the Air Pollution Control
Division (APCD) can use in considering whether a permit should be granted. Under the
previous regulation all sources locating in nonattainment areas were subject to the
public comment requirement unless the APCD exercised its discretion under Section
IV.C.3. (sources of less than 6 month's duration) to exempt them. APCD experience has
shown that there are four categories of small sources that frequently locate in
nonattainment areas, but which did not stimulate comment from the public. These
categories are: (I) service stations; (2) restaurants; (3) land development (houses and
commercial); and (4) other small sources (such as concrete batch plants).

Basically, all the effort put into preparation of public comment packages for these
sources can now be used more efficiently and the associated expense to industry
saved. The limit of 5 Tons Per Year (tpy) of controlled annual emissions is based on
calculations that show most of the sources in these four categories emit less than 5 tpy
of any one pollutant. Service stations, for example, generally emit I to 2 tpy. In many
cases less than I tpy is emitted.



                                                                                          348
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Under the revised regulation, sources less than 5 tpy can still be subject to public
comment if the Division determines it appropriate based on criteria set forth in the
regulation. The difference is that the APCD would have discretion to decide instead of
being required to provide public notice. Controversial sources such as gravel pits, odor
sources and landfill operations are subjected to public comment by the APCD
regardless of the level of emissions. This practice will continue in effect.

I.C.   Adopted March 10, 1983
Prevention of Significant Deterioration Program Regulations in Regulation
Number 3

This Statement of oasis and Purpose for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration
(PSD) Program Regulations complies with the State Administrative Procedure Act, CR5
1973, 24-4-103(4). The statutory authority for the PSD regulations are in the Air Quality
Control Act at CR5 973, 25-7-102, 25-7-105, 25-7-106, 25-7-108, 25-7-109, 25-7-114,
25-7-116, 25-7-201 et seq. The general purpose of these regulations is to prevent the
significant deterioration of air quality in those Sections of the state, which has attained
the national ambient air quality standards. The parties to this rulemaking include:

       Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry; Rocky Mountain Oil & Gas
       Association, Inc.; Chevron Shale Oil Company; Union Oil Company of California;
       Colorado Ute Electric Association, Inc.; The Colorado Mountain Club; COAL;
       Public Service Company of Colorado; City of Colorado Springs; CF&I Steel;
       Environmental Defense Fund, Inc.; United States Department of the Interior; and
       United States Department of Agriculture.

The Air Pollution Control Division acted as staff for and advised the Commission during
the proceeding. See CRS 1973, 25-7-lll(2)(g).

The PSD regulations adopted by the Commission are in many respects identical to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) PSD regulations. See 40 CFR 51.24 et
seq.; 40 CFR 52.21 et seq. The primary reason for this is that the State Act requires that
the S~PSD program be in accordance with the federal Clean Air Act PSD provisions.
See CRS 1973, 25-7-203. Thus, federal PSD requirements are generally a minimum for
the State PSD Program. For these reasons, to the extent that the federal PSD rules are


                                                                                         349
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

identical or substantially identical to the state regulations, the Commission incorporates
herein the EPA statements of basis and purpose for the federal PSD rules at 43 Fed.
Reg. 26380 et seq. (June 19, 1978) and 45 Fed. Reg. 52676 et seq. (August 7, 1980).

The Commission has additional authorities to prevent significant deterioration of air
quality. In several important areas the Commission has tailored these regulations to
meet the concerns of Colorado citizens. These areas include the requirement for an
impact analysis on water to determine acid deposition effects, the authority to make
independent determinations on adverse impact to visibility in Class I areas if the federal
land manager fails to fulfill his responsibility to do so, the requirement to establish
baselines for, and to monitor air quality related values in, Class I areas to determine the
effects of emissions on such values, and the application of Class I sulfur dioxide
increments to several Class II primitive areas and national monuments.

The proposed PSD regulations included several provisions reflecting the terms of a
settlement agreement in the matter of Chemical Manufacturer's Association, et al. V.
EPA in which EPA has agreed to propose amendments to its P50 rules. The
Commission has rejected the adoption of such provisions for several reasons. They are
arguably less stringent than current EPA rules in that they would appear to permit more
air pollution. Because they may be less stringent, their adoption appeared likely on the
basis of EPA testimony to impede the approval of the state PSD program by EPA at this
time. Finally, EPA's schedule for consideration of such provisions is unknown.
Subsequent to EPA action on the provisions of the settlement agreement, the
Commission will reconsider those provisions.

The PSD regulations will generally not become applicable to major sources or major
modifications in Colorado - until EPA has approved them. See CRS 1973, 25-7-210.
However, the regulations pertaining to attainment area designations and the
enforcement of Class I sulfur dioxide increments in those areas- listed in CRS 1973, 25-
7-209 will be applicable upon the effective date of these regulations. These regulations
will be effective twenty (20) days from publication in the Colorado Register.

DEFINITION OF “ACTUAL EMISSIONS”

The definition adopted is essentially identical to the EPA definition.


                                                                                          350
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

One party proposed that reference should be made to consideration of control
efficiency. The Commission did not adopt this proposal because the definition
inferentially considers control equipment efficiency and the reference requested would
create confusion, when actual test data were available, as to whether a separate
“efficiency” factor was to be applied.

Another party, in commenting on the definition of “baseline concentration,” expressed
concern that the determination of “actual emissions” could take place, for example,
during a low-demand period for a power plant. Such determination would result in an
emission rate considerably less than the full-capacity allowable emission rate, resulting
in a low baseline concentration. The power plant, operating the next year at full capacity,
could consume all or most of the available increment, prohibiting growth in the area.
The Commission recognizes that, for certain sources such as power plants (i.e., fossil
fuel-fired steam generators), the source must respond to constantly changing demands
with significant changes in emissions from year to year. Therefore, for fossil fuel-fired
steam generators, “allowable emissions” should generally be considered “representative
of normal unit operation” rather than actual emissions in determinations of “actual
emissions” for determining baseline concentration and increment consumption, unless it
is clearly demonstrated that a lower level of emissions will never be exceeded.

DEFINITION OF “BASELINE AREA” AND “BASELINE DATE”

“Baseline area” is not specifically defined in the State Act but is simply referred to as “an
area subject to this article~~ in the definition of baseline concentration. CRS 1973, 25-7-
202. The Federal Clean Air Act definition of “baseline concentration,” Section 169(4), is
identical to the state's, and EPA has interpreted” an area subject to this article” to mean
the attainment and unclassifiable areas designated pursuant to Section 107(d)(l)(D) or
(E) of the Federal Clean Air Act. Such an interpretation is also reasonable under the
Colorado Air Quality Control Act which states that the Commission shall adopt
measures “to prevent significant deterioration of ambient air quality in each region, or
portion thereof, of the state identified pursuant to Section 107(d)(1)(D) or (E) of the
Federal Act.” The result of EPA's definition is that the entire state is the baseline area for
502, and air quality control regions for particulate matter.



                                                                                          351
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Several parties proposed alternative approaches to the definition of baseline area.
These approaches ranged from a modeled 1-µg/m3 impact area (based on 7.5 minute
quadrangles, the county-township-range-section system, or a metric grid) to the entire
state.

The Commission adopted the EPA definition for the following reasons:

(1)      The EPA approach has been in effect for several years and has proven workable.
         EPA has wel1-developed procedures for performing source impact analyses in
         large baseline areas, which the state can use. Changing the definition of baseline
         area would result in use of an approach that has not been proven and that would
         cause a discontinuity for the regulated industries when the PSD program is
         delegated to the state.

(2)      The use of areas larger than the source impact area means that baseline
         concentrations will be determined at an earlier date, and increments will be
         consumed from an earlier date, thus minimizing air quality deterioration. This
         fulfills the primary purpose of the State Act. See CRS 1973, 25-7-102.

         Certain parties were concerned that baseline areas larger than the impact area
         might unnecessarily inhibit economic growth in the unaffected portion of the
         baseline area, but should that occur, and there are no specific examples in the
         record of where that would occur, the Commission could consider subdividing
         baseline areas to allow for a new baseline date and concentration.

         Testimony from Pitkin County and members of the general public indicated
         concern that with small baseline areas, minor source emission increases would
         continue to raise the background ambient air concentrations, especially for
         particulate matter, before a major source would locate in an area to begin the
         counting of increment consumption. The baseline areas selected by the
         Commission for particulate matter represent a balance between a recognition
         that particulate matter emissions are often a more localized problem than are
         gaseous emissions (hence the use of AQCRs for particulate matter instead of the
         entire state, as is the approach for S02) and the need to begin counting
         increment consumption expeditiously (hence, the use of AQCRs for particulate


                                                                                          352
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       matter rather than the smaller impact area). Only two AQCRs in Colorado have
       been triggered during the six years PSD has been in effect. Since triggered
       baseline areas can in the future be subdivided into triggered and untriggered
       areas, the Commission considers the use of baseline areas the size of AQCRs
       sufficiently flexible for purposes of reasonable application, economic growth, and
       prevention of air quality deterioration.

(3)    Use of a baseline area equivalent to the 1 ug/m3 impact area could result in a
       situation where impacts on a Class I area individually were each less than 1
       ug/m3 , with the result that the Class I area would not be a part of a baseline
       area. Yet the cumulative impact of these sources could be greater than the 1
       ug/m 3 increment for particulate matter 'for Class I areas, so that deterioration of
       air quality greater than that allowed by the regulation could legally occur.

(4)    The use of the entire state as an SO2 baseline area provides maximum protection
       for all Class I areas in the state. This is of particular concern to the Commission,
       since the general flow of air from west to east and the long-range transport of
       gaseous pollutants can result in effects on nearly all of Colorado's Class I areas
       by SO2 sources on the West Slope. The effects and extent of acid deposition, to
       which SO2 is a major contributor, was a topic of extensive testimony at the
       hearings; the definition of the entire state as a baseline area for affords maximum
       protection of the environment while the problem of acid deposition receives
       additional study.

DEFINITION OF “BASELINE CONCENTRATION”

Two parties proposed changes to this definition, both suggesting the substitution of
“allowable” for “actual” emissions in portions of the definition. The concern regarding
power plant actual versus allowable emissions is discussed under “Actual Emissions”.

The other concern arises from the possibility of a large difference between actual and
allowable emissions in the calculation of increment consumption or in establishing
baseline concentrations. This is discussed extensively in the EPA preamble to the
August 7, 1980 PSD regulations (Division Exhibit B, pp. 74-76) concerning increment
consumption. EPA's rationale is that actual emissions more reasonably represent actual


                                                                                          353
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

air quality than allowable emissions and that because actual emissions are based on at
least two years of operation, future emissions could be reasonably expected to remain
at the same level. EPA therefore uses actual emissions to avoid “paper consumption” of
increment (or modeled baseline concentrations which would exceed monitored levels)
The Commission concurs with the EPA rationale and has adopted the EPA approach of
using actual emissions to track increment consumption and determine baseline
concentrations.

DEFINITION OF “COMPLETE”

The Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) proposed a list of specific elements of a PSD
permit application, for aid in determining whether an application is “complete,” which
was generally incorporated in the final rule. The proposed list of items would add some
certainty and clarification for the applicant and the Division of the specific items required
demonstrating completeness of an application. Regarding items (i) and (iii)-(iv).,
opposition to the list by several parties was primarily that it was redundant with other
requirements of the rules. York, Nov. 10 Tr. at 18 et seq. and 60 et seq. .Item (ii) was
retained because, for many or most applications, such information would be necessary
to verify the applicant's modeling.

DEFINITION OF “NET EMISSIONS INCREASE”

Several parties proposed crediting increases or decreases in emissions, which occur up
to five years after a modification, becomes operational. The Commission did not adopt
this recommendation because EPA specifically prohibits states from crediting
decreases, which would occur after the change occurs. 40 CFR 5l.24(b)(3). In addition,
it would prove difficult to exact an enforceable agreement for a source to close down or
otherwise decrease emissions at some future date.

Several parties proposed in paragraph f(ii) to shift “enforceable” from time of
construction to time of operation. This change would not be consistent with the state
statutory requirements, which prohibit construction or operation of a non-permitted new
source or modification. The suggested change would also needlessly complicate the
correlation of permits to enforceable decreases in emissions.




                                                                                           354
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In response to a party comment that 90 days to report a reduction in emissions is too
short, the Commission agreed and has allowed such reports to be made within a year of
the decrease unless an extension is granted. A longer time would make the reduction
difficult to verify.

DEFINITION OF “SECONDARY EMISSIONS”

The final definition incorporates a recent amendment by EPA, 47 Fed. Reg. 27554
(June 25, 1982) and is consistent with CRS 1973, 25-7-202(6.5).

DEFINITION OF “ALLOWABLE EMISSIONS”

In several Sections of EPA's PSD rules, including its definition of “allowable emissions,”
EPA grants credit for permit conditions only if they are “federally enforceable. In each of
such Sections, the Commission has deleted the qualification of “federally” and has in
the Common Provisions Regulation defined “enforceable” so that it is consistent with 'S
definition of 'federally enforceable.”

DEFINITION OF “SIGNIFICANT”

Several parties commented that the proposed definition, which defined both “significant”
and “significantly” and included a listing of “significant concentrations,” was confusing
and unnecessary. The proposed definition also gave the Division the discretion to (1)
determine that certain sources were not significant even if the source met the definition,
and (2) to determine significance levels for non-listed pollutants. In addition, it limited
the definition for sources affecting Class I areas to those sources producing a
“significant” impact. There were several Sections in the proposed regulations that used
the “significant” definition of ambient concentrations to allow impacts to Class I areas
not allowed under EPA rules. EPA and the National Park Service commented that these
changes resulted in a less stringent definition. The Commission agreed with these
comments. The final definition is essentially identical to EPA's and uses only emission
rates to define “significant,” and the use of “significant” to qualify impacts to Class I
areas in other Sections of the rules has been deleted.

DEFINITION OF “MODIFICATION”




                                                                                            355
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

One party proposed that an existing exception for increases in ~ emissions caused by
adding new emission control equipment (e.g., replacing scrubbers with fabric filters) be
retained. The Commission acknowledges that this exemption was intended to avoid
penalizing a source willing to improve particulate matter collection by converting from
scrubbers to baghouses or electrostatic precipitators. Since scrubbers collect gaseous
pollutants, but baghouses and precipitators do not, the amount of SO2 emitted would
increase, hence the exemption. Since there are a number of nonattainment areas for
particulate matter, but none for SO2, the Commission will continue to encourage
additional control of particulate matter by including this exemption in the definition of
“modification.”

It should, however, be noted that this exemption is not included in the definition of
“major modification,” so a significant increase in SO2 emissions from a major source will
result in P50 applicability. The effect of this is to provide the exemption only for minor
sources and minor modifications.

DEFINITION OF “STATIONARY SOURCE”

The proposed definition was revised to include language essentially identical to that of
EPA at 40 CFR 51.24(b)(5) and (b)(6). The final rule allows more discretion to define
stationary source on a case-by-case basis. The definition clarifies that a source in a
nonattainment area may also be “an identifiable piece of process equipment” which
makes it consistent with a recent federal case. See Natural Resources Defense Council
Et al. V. Gorsuch, et al., 685 F.2d 718 (D.C. Cir. 1982).

DEFINITION OF “FUGITIVE DUST”

The State Act exempts “fugitive dust” from regulation under the PSD program, including
exemption from determinations of whether a source or modification is major and of
increment consumption. C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-202(4), -202(5), -204(l)(b), and -204(2)(c).
“Fugitive Dust” is defined as:

       Soil or other airborne particulate matter (excluding particulates produced directly
       during combustion) resulting from natural forces or from surface use or
       disturbance, including, but not limited to, all dust from wind erosion of exposed



                                                                                            356
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       surfaces or storage piles and from agriculture, construction, forestry, unpaved
       roads, mining, exploration, or similar activities in which earth is either moved,
       stored, transported, or redistributed; except that fugitive dust shall not include
       any fraction of such soil or other airborne particulate matter which is of a size or
       substance to adversely affect public health or welfare.

C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-202(3). Under such definition, fugitive particulates are regulated in
the PSD program if they are “of a size or substance to adversely affect public health or
welfare.”

The exemption of “fugitive dust” is an issue because EPA counts total suspended
particulates (“TSP”) in determining increment consumption, maintenance of primary and
secondary NMQS, and source applicability. Therefore, to the extent that the state
excludes some sizes of particulate matter in these determinations, its regulations are
arguably less stringent than EPA's, although as explained, because of depositional
effects, there is generally an insignificant difference between the counting of TSP and
the counting of smaller particulates.

The basis for setting the primary NAAQS is health effects; the basis for setting the
secondary NAAQS is welfare effects. These are. also the bases under the State Act for
counting fugitive particulates in the PSD program. Because the bases for the State's
inclusion of fugitive particulates and for EPA'S promulgation of particulate matter
NAAQS are essentially identical, it is appropriate to consider whether the NAAQS
should be the standard for determining which particulates are “of a size or substance to
adversely affect public health or welfare.” However, EPA's current primary and
secondary NAAQS for particulates are based on the “Air Quality Criteria for Particulate
Matter” (1969), Div. Ex. R., which has generally been superseded by more recent
research and analysis. For that reason, EPA in the CMA v. EPA Settlement Agreement
has agreed in the near future to promulgate new primary, and perhaps secondary,
NAAQS for particulates which would exclude particulates above a size posing no health
or welfare risks.

EPA's staff review, in anticipation of revisions to the particulate matter definition and
NAAQS, of the effects of particulate matter on health concludes that the size counted


                                                                                            357
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

should be less than 10 urns, which includes those particles capable of penetrating the
thoracic regions. “Review of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Particulate
Matter: Assessment of Scientific and Technical Information,” EPA 450/5-82-001 (January
1982).

EPA staff review of welfare impacts indicates that visibility impacts are generally caused
by fine particulates of less than 2.5 um. Id. at 122. However, such review recognizes
that “the full size range of particles including dustfall can contribute to soiling, become a
nuisance and result in increased cost and decreased enjoyment of the environment.” Id.
At 140. Further, the EPA “staff recommends consideration of the economic and other
effects associated with soiling and nuisance when determining whether a secondary
standard for TP or for TSP or other large particle indicator is desirable,” id. at 141, and
that “the basis for selecting a particular level for a secondary TP or TSP standard is a
matter of judgment.” (emphasis added) Id. at 147. The EPA staff review indicates that
EPA will probably propose fine particulate secondary standard but is undecided as to
whether to establish a TSP or large particulate secondary standard, and that there is a
basis for concluding that welfare impacts are being caused by all sizes of particulates.
Additionally, there was public and party testimony on welfare effects from fugitive
particulates, some of which can be assumed to be large particles. See Markey,
November 10 Tr. at 2 et seq.

One of the apparent concerns of parties and persons opposing the use by the
Commission of TSP as a welfare standard is that the increment would be consumed
and that no further development could occur. Division Exhibit W, which compares the
modeled ambient impacts of TSP using a deposition model with particulates of 10 urn or
less using the same model, shows that the larger particles deposit quickly and that the
ambient impact is relatively the same at a distance of 1000 meters or greater. The
implication of this is that for many sources the modeling of increment consumption
would have the same general results whether TSP is counted or whether only particles
10 urn or less are counted (assuming the boundary of the source is 1000 meters or
farther from the emissions point). Another implication is that welfare impacts from large
particulates can only result within relatively short distances of a source.



                                                                                         358
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Another concern was that the legislative intent was not to count TSP, although there
was not clear evidence of legislative intent presented to the Commission. In any event,
statutory language leaves the determination to the Commission to decide what
particulates are of a size or substance to adversely affect health or welfare.



Given the foregoing considerations and the Commission's general interest in
interpreting health and welfare effects of particulates consistent with EPA, but also given
the uncertainty surrounding the revision of the particulate NAAQS by EPA, the
Commission determines that in applying the definition of “fugitive dust”, the adverse
effects on health or welfare of fugitive particulate emissions should be determined
individually for each source. Adverse welfare effects of nuisance and soiling will be
presumed to occur if the source would have offsite, ambient, particulate impacts unless
the permit applicant rebuts such presumption with clear and convincing evidence. The
result of this presumption will be that in most cases, large particulates will be counted
and there will be no difference between EPA s treatment of particulates and the states.
Other health and welfare effects shall generally be evaluated based on EPA's most
recent research and analysis, but the permit applicant shall have the burden of proof of
demonstrating with clear and convincing evidence, which, if any, sizes or substances of
fugitive particulates do not adversely affect, health or welfare. This presumption of
health and. welfare effects has been incorporated in the definitions of “major stationary
source” and “major modification,” Section XI.A.4 on Exclusions from Increment
Consumption, and Section V.D.3.c.(i)(B).

Upon EPA's adoption of revised NAAQS for particulates, the Commission may consider
whether to revise this Statement of Basis and Purpose or the definition of “fugitive dust”
to reflect such revisions., Should EPA decide not to have a secondary NAAQS
incorporating nuisance and soiling (welfare) impacts of large particulates, the
Commission will consider whether the welfare effects of large particulates are significant
enough to be included, or whether they are relatively insignificant and, thus, should not
be counted in the state PSD Program.

DEFINITION OF “MAJOR SOURCE” AND “MAJOR MODIFICATION”


                                                                                        359
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The State Act permits the counting of fugitive emissions in determining whether a
source or modification is major “only if the Commission adopts regulations to include
fugitive emissions for that source category.” CR5 1973, 25-7-202(4) and (5). The
Federal Clean Air Act has a similar requirement at Sec. 302(j). EPA has interpreted the
rulemaking requirement to mean simply a consideration in rulemaking of whether
fugitive emissions should be counted and a requirement that affected industries be
allowed to present policy or factual reasons why fugitive emissions should not be
counted. 45 Fed. Reg. 52676 (August 7, 1980). Based on this rationale, EPA's rules
currently list 26 categories of sources for which fugitive emissions are counted. A similar
interpretation of the State Act is reasonable and has been adopted by the Commission.

One party recommended the addition of uranium mills and coal mines to the list of
sources for which fugitive emissions would be counted. However, those sources could
not be considered in this proceeding due to inadequate public notice. The Commission
intends to consider those sources for listing as soon as practicable.

In the CMA v. EPA Settlement Agreement, the EPA has agreed to remove these 26
listed sources on the basis of industry's argument that the rulemaking requirement
means that EPA must identify reasonable methods for measuring and modeling fugitive
emissions from a category of sources. Although not agreeing that this is legally required
under state or Federal law, the Commission has determined that Division Exhibit F,
primarily, makes that demonstration for the ten categories located or expected to locate
in Colorado.

It should be noted that measurement methods are not only available, but have been in
use for a number of years and have provided test results that are the basis for the
fugitive emission factors used by EPA and other control agencies, including the
Colorado Air Pollution Control Division.

The following important parallels between stack emission 'factors and fugitive emission
factors support the conclusion that fugitive emission factors are relatively as reliable and
as reasonably available as stack emission factors:

•      Both are based on numerous test data at different locations on different
       equipment or operations.


                                                                                        360
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

•      Both are influenced by many variables (e.g., for a stack, flow rate, temperature,
       process variations; for a fugitive plume, wind speed, moisture content of the
       material, size distribution of the material).

•      Neither is intended to represent actual emissions from a specific source. Actual
       acceptable test data for a specific or similar source would always be used in lieu
       of an emission factor.

•      Both are intended as air management tools to allow pre-construction assessment
       of a source impact or as a representative value to average total emissions from a
       number of similar sources (e.g., all waste incinerators, commercial boilers, or
       coal storage piles) for such air quality management purposes as determining
       “reasonable further progress” in nonattainment areas.

Stack and fugitive emission factors are both estimates; such factors are nevertheless
widely used by control agencies and applicants alike. However, control agencies
generally have no objection to, and would prefer, actual test data in lieu of factors
whenever such information is submitted. (See Testimony of McCutchen, October 28,
1982; Egley, November 18, 1982, pp. 72-75 and p. 99; Bertolin, October 29, (am), p.39.)

One party's concern involved whether the emission factors for a facility can be
extrapolated to a larger facility, specifically, from a 7000 ton per day oil shale processing
facility to a 50,000 ton per day facility. Scale-up is a widely used and accepted approach
throughout industry for estimating the feasibility of larger-scale facilities from results at
smaller-scale facilities. There are a number of well-known precautions that should
always be considered when extrapolating, and a control agency should be at least as
cautious in extrapolating emission levels as the applicant is in extrapolating process
data. Of course, if different equipment, such as a retort, is to be used at a proposed
facility, an emission estimate would be based on mining and handling practices and on
different processing equipment emission factors (e.g., refinery emission factors) which
are similar to oil shale processing activities where such would be more accurate than
extrapolation. Therefore, either through extrapolation or through the application of other
more applicable and available emissions factors, relatively accurate emissions levels
from all types of oil shale facilities can be calculated.


                                                                                           361
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The same modeling techniques used to model stack emissions can be and are used to
model fugitive emissions (Division Appendix F). One modeling parameter, deposition, is
more critical in modeling fugitive particulate emissions and should be carefully
evaluated. Fugitive particulate emissions usually contain larger particles than do
controlled stack emissions. These large particles generally settle out rapidly, so that the
impact at a plant boundary is usually much less than would be anticipated by the
quantity of emissions at the source. See “Fugitive Dust.” However, acceptable models
exist which incorporate deposition and thereby provide a reasonably accurate
assessment of fugitive particulate emission impact. Models without deposition can be
used for gaseous and fine particulate fugitive emissions. Models have recognized
limitations, but they are as accurate for fugitive emissions as for stack emissions.

The following information, which is primarily from Division Exhibit F, concerns the major
policy and factual reasons for counting fugitive emissions from each of ten source
categories:

Coal Cleaning. A typical plant would process 10,000 tons per year (tpy) of coal and emit
approximately 280 tpy of particulate matter, 96% of which would be fugitive emissions.
Over 100 tpy of the fugitive emissions are less than 15 microns in diameter and are
considered inhalable particulate (IP).

Portland Cement. The typical plant produces 500,000 tpy of cement and emits
approximately 370 tpy of particulate matter, 60% of which would be fugitive emissions.

Iron & Steel Mills (Including Coke Ovens). A typical plant would produce several million
tons of steel per year and emit approximately 3,600 tpy of particulate matter, 64% of
which would be fugitive emissions. The coke plant would produce over half a million
tons of coke per year and emit approximately 700 tpy of particulate matter, 10% of
which would be fugitive emissions, and 1,500 tpy of uncontrolled fugitive hydrocarbon
emissions.

Petroleum Refineries. A typical plant would process 25,000 barrels of oil per day and
emit approximately 1,100 tpy of hydrocarbons, 57% of which would be fugitive
emissions.




                                                                                        362
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Lime Plants. A typical plant would produce 300,000 tpy of lime and emit approximately
1,800 tpy of particulate matter, 33% of which would be fugitive emissions.

Fuel Conversion. A typical shale oil plant would produce 50,000 barrels per day of oil
and emit 4,800 tpy of particulate matter, 12% (500 tpy) of which would be fugitive
emissions, and 8,611 tpy of hydrocarbons, 12% (1,080 tpy) of which would be fugitive
emissions.

Sintering Plants. A typical plant would emit approximately 400 tpy of particulate matter,
20% (80 tpy) of which would be fugitive emissions.

Power Plants and Boilers. A typical, but well-controlled, new 500 MW power plant burns
2.1 million tpy of coal and emits approximately 620 tpy of particulate matter, 18% (110
tpy) of which would be fugitive emissions. These fugitive emissions are from coal
handling and storage, among the most visible and complaint-related of all fugitive
emission sources.

Petroleum Transfer and Storage. A typical plant has a capacity of 476,000 barrels and
an annual throughput of 7,123,000 barrels per year and emits 267 tpy of hydrocarbons,
72% of which are fugitive emissions.

In conclusion, the Commission has determined that fugitive emissions from the sources
listed should be included in determining whether the source or modification is major for
the following general reasons:

       (a)    Fugitive emissions consist of the same pollutants that are emitted through
              stacks and regulated as stack emissions;

       (b)    The quantity of fugitive emissions, both in absolute and in relative terms, is
              significant; and

       (c)    Although this finding is not legally required, there are methods reasonably
              available for measuring and modeling fugitive emissions.

PUBLIC COMMENT AND HEARING REQUIREMENTS

The Commission has adopted a regulation designed to offer maximum opportunity for
any interested person to learn about, and become involved in, the PSD permit review



                                                                                        363
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

process. Adopted in the final rule are proposals by one party that (a) the public notice be
printed not only in a newspaper of local distribution, but also in one of state-wide
distribution to increase the number of potential interested persons reached by the
notice, (b) that the public hearing be held at least 60 days after the Federal Land
Manager (FLM) has received the notice and permit application, to allow the FLM
adequate response time, and (c) that any interested person receive notice of public
hearing. In addition, the Commission agrees with the Division proposal to implement
and maintain an “interested party” mailing list as described in Division Exhibit M.



The proposed rule contained a requirement that the Division notify the county
Commissioners in affected counties when a proposed source would consume 50
percent or more of the remaining PSD increment. Two parties proposed that this
requirement be deleted as allowing local land use decision-makers to unduly influence
air permit decisions. The intent of this requirement, which has been modified to notify
county Commissioners of any PSO permit applications, is not to provide opportunity for
counties to comment to the Division on land use; rather, it is to provide information to
the counties on proposed sources so that the counties can more adequately assess
their priorities and needs. PSD permit approval or denial is to be based solely on the
criteria specified in this regulation; land use decisions are, and will remain, the
responsibility of local governments.

Regarding the issue of land use decisions, one party commented that Section
IV.C.4.e.(iii) of this final rule, which solicits comments from interested parties on
alternatives to a proposed PSD source or modification, constitutes the inclusion of land
use factors in permit approval determinations. The Commission did not remove this
Section because it is required by the State Act, CRS 1973, 25-7-l14(4)(f)(l)(B).
Furthermore, the intent of soliciting such alternatives is for the assessment of
alternatives with respect to control technology and source impact, not land use.

CONTROL TECHNOLOGY REVIEW

One party proposed that the last sentence in Section IV.D.3.a.(i)(C), which requires the
owner or operator of a phased project to demonstrate the adequacy of a previous best


                                                                                         364
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

available control technology (BACT) determination, be deleted. The Commission did not
delete this sentence because (1) an EPA regulation requires such a condition and
deletion of this requirement could be considered less stringent, and (2) the requirement
is intended to provide for the possibility of a different BACT determination if new
technology has developed between the time of permit review and the next phase of a
project for which construction has not yet commenced, a time period which can easily
exceed five years on large projects.

POST-CONSTRUCTION MONITORING

Five parties proposed that post-construction monitoring requirements be limited to a
maximum of one year. The Commission recognizes the concern of lessening the
burdens on owners or operators, particularly if the information being gathered is
unnecessary. But in many cases, there can be a very real need for monitoring for
periods of time greater than a year to obtain reliable data. Accordingly, the final rule
requires post-construction ambient monitoring for a period up to one year; additional
ambient monitoring can be required only if it is necessary to determine the effect of
emissions from the source on air quality. This necessitates an evaluation by the Division
regarding the adequacy of the data, and a showing by the Division that additional
monitoring is needed, before more than a year of monitoring could be required.

OPERATION OF MONITORING STATIONS

Three parties proposed that the rule be written to allow the latest changes in EPA-
approved methods to be used without first having to amend the rule. The Commission
agrees with the need to use the most up-to-date approved methods. Accordingly, the
final rule specifies that “EPA accepted procedures...as approved by the Division” can be
used.

ADDITIONAL IMPACT ANALYSIS

Section IV.D.3.a.(vi) of the final rule requires an owner or operator of a proposed PSD
source to provide an analysis of the impairment to water that would occur as a result of
emissions associated with the source.




                                                                                           365
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This analysis is not required by the EPA rules. The Inclusion of water in the additional
impact analysis reflects a strong concern by the Commission based in the record
regarding acid deposition. At this time there is neither the information nor the evidence
of damage to justify regulating acid deposition in Colorado. However, the vulnerability of
high altitude lakes to acid deposition and the potential increases in acid-forming
pollutants such as SO2 and NOx on the Western Slope from sources subject to the
PSD program, particularly oil shale processing and large power plants, clearly
demonstrate a need for a program to gather data, track and analyze this potential
environmental problem. The inclusion of water in the additional impact analysis is
intended to gather information on the problem; this analysis is not intended to affect
permit approval or denial or control technology review decisions except for
determinations of adverse impact to AQRVs in Class I areas. The issues, which have
been raised concerning water impact analysis, are discussed in detail.

a.     Legal Authority to Require an Impact Analysis of Acid Deposition

The State Air Quality Control Act requires a PSD permit hearing to consider “air quality
impacts of the source... and other appropriate considerations.” C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-
114(4)(f). Acid deposition can be construed as an indirect but potentially significant air
quality impact which should be analyzed, especially in light of one of the stated
purposes of the PSD Program “to protect public health and welfare from any actual or
potential adverse effect which....may reasonably be anticipated to occur from air
pollution or from exposures to pollutants in other media, which pollutants originate as
emissions to the ambient air (emphasis added). Section 160(1) of the Clean Air Act.
Acid deposition in water is those pollutants in other media originating as emissions to
the ambient air.

The Federal Land Manager (FLM) of a Class 1 area is responsible for determining
whether a source has an adverse impact on air quality related values which is generally
defined as follows:

Any value of an area, which may be affected by a change in air quality. Examples
include flora, fauna, soil, water, visibility, culture, and odors. Forest Service Comments,
October 7, 1982, p.1.


                                                                                         366
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Acid deposition may adversely affect such values, and thus an analysis of its effects
should be required for review by the federal land managers of affected Class I areas.

b.     Major Issues

The major issues discussed during the hearings are summarized:

1.     Are Colorado's watersheds sensitive to acid deposition?

John Turk of the USGS is involved in acid deposition research in Colorado and stated
that 370 lakes in the Flattops Wilderness area comprising 157 hectares would be
sensitive to potentially harmful degrees of acidification if precipitation attains an average
pH of 4.0. (Exhibit 3, Nov. 10 Tr. at 153)

Ben Parkhurst maintains that there is talk of Colorado's lakes being sensitive (Oct. 29
Tr. at 146), but states that sensitivity must be considered together with acid inputs.
Thus, if acid input to the water system is not sufficiently large the sensitivity question is
not important.

Dr. William Lewis stated that Colorado's lakes are sensitive to acid deposition as
demonstrated by the measured loss in buffering capacity he found in his studies. (Nov.
18 Tr. at 136-138)

In conclusion it can be inferred that some Colorado lakes are poorly buffered and if
sufficient levels of acidity are introduced into the lakes, these poorly buffered “sensitive”
lakes could develop acidification problems.

2.     Has acidification occurred in any Colorado lakes?

John Turk of the USGS states that there has not been any large degree of acidification
taking place in the lakes or streams he has studied in the Flattops. (Nov. 10 Tr. at 172)

Ben Parkhurst also states that there is no evidence to show that any acidification has
taken place in Colorado Lakes. (Oct. 29 Tr. at 144 and 150-152)

Dr. William Lewis states that he has noted pH changes in lakes he has studied (Nov. 18
Tr. at 140), but he does not consider that to be the major point in regard to the
acidification question. Lewis considers the loss of buffering capacity to be the best




                                                                                          367
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

indicator of acidification effects on lakes and he has found statistically valid evidence to
show that this has occurred. (Nov. 18 Tr. At 13 6-138)

In summary, there is some evidence that pH has dropped slightly in some of the lakes
Lewis has studied, however, it does not appear that acidification (drop in pH) has
occurred to any large degree in Colorado, however, in the prediction of future impacts,
buffering capacity should be examined and this has dropped in the lakes examined by
Lewis.

3.       Is there a potential for acidification in the future?

Paul Ferraro has done some research on estimating potential acid deposition impacts
on Colorado and has determined that under different energy development scenarios,
there is a potential for acidification in sensitive lakes. (Nov. 10 Tr. at 158-159)

Parkhurst states that he would not expect acidification to be a problem in the future,
unless the acid deposition reaches levels similar to those found in the Northeast. (Oct.
29 Tr. at 154-156) Parkhurst states that Ferraro's study is conservative and a pH drop to
5.8 would not affect fish.

Oppenheimer (EDF Exhibit 32 p. 6) states that if a 1-µg/m3 increase in SO2 (annual
average) occurs, acid deposition levels could result which would be damaging to
sensitive lakes.

In summary, it can be inferred that there is a potential for energy development activities
to cause increased levels of acids to be deposited in the watershed, and effects on pH
may occur depending on the buffering capacity of the water. The degree of the effect will
depend on the amount of acid, thus the amount of emissions.

4.       Are there adequate methods of modeling for acid deposition effects on
         watersheds?

Paul Ferraro has utilized what he refers to as a ''first cut'' approach in estimating
impacts due to acid deposition. The approach utilizes methods employed by John Turk
for determining sensitivity of waters and methods for estimating deposition rates
developed by Systems Applications, Inc. (Nov. 10 Tr. at 154-176)




                                                                                         368
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Oppenheimer (EDF Exhibit 32 p. 12-13) states that acid deposition modeling could be
conducted using presently available plume models (approved by EPA), which
incorporate a plume depletion function to account for deposition. Results from this
model could then be compared to deposition standards.

In summary, there appear to be only screening techniques available at this time for
estimating the impacts of acid deposition.

5.     What level of acidification is dangerous to aquatic ecosystems?

Parkhurst stated that fish could survive in pH's as low as 4.1. (Oct. 29 Tr. 143)

Lewis states that he feels that trout would be adversely impacted if pH dropped
significantly below six as an average. He would not expect trout populations to be able
to reproduce and grow at a pH below six. (Nov. 18 Tr. at 152,153)

Parkhurst also states that a permanent pH decrease from 6.0 to 5.0 is not a natural
variation and that many species would probably be eliminated and species numbers
and diversities reduced. (Nov. 10 Tr. at 110)

Parkhurst also testified that there is not any evidence to show that trout are capable of
both reproducing and maturing in an environment, which is consistently of a pH of 4.5 or
less. (Nov. 10 Tr. at 114)

In conclusion, the record does not clearly identify the point at which damage to fish will
occur. However, testimony indicates that below a pH of 4.5, and maybe below 6, fish
populations would not be able to reproduce and mature.

Summary

Few definitive conclusions could be drawn from the evidence and testimony. The main
point of agreement was that at the present time there has not been any adverse
acidification identified in any of Colorado's watersheds. The buffering capacity of lakes
appears to be the important factor to consider in determining sensitivity of lakes.
Testimony was given that buffering capacity has diminished in certain mountain lakes;
however, the cause of this loss has not been identified. No agreement was reached on
what level of pH could be tolerated by aquatic ecosystems without causing adverse
impact. It could be agreed by all parties that more research must be conducted on acid


                                                                                       369
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

deposition so that its effects may be better understood and predicted by appropriate
models.

Although more information is needed, studies in the Northeastern United States,
Canada, and Europe show that acid deposition can be a serious problem (Oct. 29 Tr. at
144-145 and EDF Exhibit 32 p.3). Colorado contains many lakes, which are sensitive,
exhibiting low buffering capacities. If energy development occurs on the Western Slope
emissions of acid precursors will grow substantially, which will result in increased acid
deposition levels. The nature of energy industry in Colorado may result in rapid growth
in a short period of time, which will occur before all information on acid deposition is
understood. If a large industry develops and new information shows that ambient air
standards and increments do not protect the state from acidification problems, a
valuable resource may be damaged. For these reasons, the Commission intends to
remain vigilant in monitoring this problem, and as analytical capabilities are developed
or a problem develops, to re-address this issue for possible regulatory and/or legislative
solutions. A subcommittee should be formed, if resources permit, to develop specific
guidelines for acid deposition analyses based on recent modeling innovations. In the
interim, proposed PSD sources emitting acid or acid precursors will be required to
analyze the impact of these emissions on water, utilizing the most up-to-date techniques
available.

AREA CLASSIFICATIONS

Several parties objected to the application of Class I sulfur dioxide increments to those
areas of Colorado listed in Section VIII.B. which are otherwise Class II areas. The sulfur
dioxide Class I increments are required to be enforced in these areas by CRS 1973, 25-
7-209. However, pursuant to CRS 1973, Section 25-7-105(8) (Supp. 1982), this Section
VIII.S. may not be made a part of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) until these areas
are redesignated as Class I under the procedures of Section IX. Until they are
redesignated, they may only be enforced under state law and regulations. However,
unlike Class I areas, the increment in these areas may be protected now. See CR5
1973, 25-7-210.




                                                                                           370
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has also determined that the variances from increment consumption
allowed by Sections XIV.C., XIV.D., XIV.E., and XIV.F. for Class I areas should also
apply to the areas listed in Section VIII.B. It is a reasonable interpretation of CRS 1973,
25-7-209 that if the Class I (sulfur dioxide) increments are to apply to such areas, the
variances from the increments should also apply. There is nothing in the State Act to
indicate that the areas listed in CRS 1973, 25-7-209, are to be given better air quality
protection than Class I areas, which would be the result if the variances did not apply.

REDESIGNATIQN

Several parties objected to what were considered burdensome requirements for
redesignating areas to Class I. The adopted rule incorporates only the minimal
requirements for redesignation from state and federal law. See CR5 1973, 25-7-208;
Sec. 164 of the Federal Clean Air Act; 40 CFR 5l7~(g). However, the Commission did
lessen the burden imposed by the proposed rule on those persons requesting a
redesignation by allowing such requests to be made without providing all of the
information necessary for a redesignation. Who would provide such information is not
specified so that it could be any combination of federal, state and private entities.

TECHNICAL MODELING & MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

Several parties proposed the inclusion of future EPA amendments or guidelines in this
Section of the regulation, which specifies the air quality model, monitoring and stack
height requirements to be used. In response, the Commission adopted the use of “EPA
approved” terminology instead of references to specific documents.

Two parties proposed language making EPA or the state responsible for any needed
meteorological data. The Commission did not adopt this proposal because it is the
applicant's responsibility to demonstrate that it will not cause exceedance of an NAAQS
or increment, and meteorological data are nearly always needed to make such
determinations. If the Division has such data, it has an obligation to make that data
available to the applicant.

INNOVATIVE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY




                                                                                         371
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Several parties proposed that the phrase “greater than or” be deleted from Section
XIII.B.2. which specifies that the innovative system achieve emission reductions
“greater than or equivalent to” BACT. The EPA regulation uses the phrase “equivalent
to” and the parties considered the proposed state rule more stringent. The Commission
does not consider the phrase “greater than or equivalent to” (emphasis added) to be
more stringent, but instead to be a clarification that an acceptable innovation can result
in either equivalent or lesser emissions from the source, but not a higher level of
emissions. The preamble to the EPA RSD regulation (Div. Exhibit B, p. 84) clearly
specifies that the “...final emission limitation must at least represent the BACT level that
would have been initially defined.”

FEDERAL CLASS I AREAS

1.     (Section XIV.A.) The State's Independent Determination of Adverse Impact to
       Visibility

Section XIV.A. allows the Division or the Board (if applicable) to determine
independently if there are an adverse impact to visibility in Class I areas if the federal
land manager (FLM) fails to make such determination or such determination is in error.
This authority is intended to allow the state to fulfill the FLM's responsibility for
protection of visibility if for whatever reason, including political, the FLt4 fails to do so.
The Commission recognizes that scenic vistas are an important resource of the State of
Colorado. (Colorado Mountain Club Exhibit #1) A subcommittee may be formed to
further develop visibility protection for the State of Colorado.

Several parties suggested problems with the state's independent authority' to make
such visibility determinations. These consisted of (1) measuring or predicting visibility
impairment, (2) quantifying man-induced , as opposed to naturally-occurring, visibility
impairment, (3) the subjectiveness of visibility impairment, (4) the lack of correlation of
current particulate standards to visibility impairment, and (5) the lack of guidance in the
regulation regarding determinations of significant and adverse visibility impacts.

The Commission's response to these concerns is as follows:




                                                                                             372
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     (1)   Although it is true that there are not federal reference methods for
           measuring visibility at this time, there are reliable means to accurately
           measure and predict visibility impairment. Scientific instruments such as
           the telephotometer, nephelometer, and the fine particulate monitor are
           recognized as being capable of obtaining objective information on
           visibility-related parameters. Photographs are also useful in visibility
           assessment.

           Visibility theory involving scattering and absorption of light is well
           documented and has been incorporated into the models described in the
           Workbook for Estimating Visibility Impairment (EPA-450/4-8-031). The
           preface to the Workbook for Estimating Visibility Impairment states: “EPA
           believes these techniques are at a point where the results should now be
           employed to assist decision-makers in their assessments.” “These
           techniques” include the Plu-Vu Model. Div. Ex. J at iii. Thus, these models
           are appropriate for use at this time.

     (2)   It is possible to determine if a source of visibility impairment is natural or
           anthropogenic through various chemical/physical analysis techniques.
           Improvements in air sampling and analytical techniques have made
           available, for the first time, detailed information on the chemical and
           physical nature of the ambient aerosol and of source - emissions. Using
           these chemical “fingerprints,” particle morphology and the natural
           variability of airshed sources, recent developments in receptor models
           have provided new techniques of assigning source contributions.

     (3)   Perception of visibility impairment is subjective and involves individual
           variability; however, norms do exist around which an assessment can be
           made. As noted, EPA supports the use of its Workbook for Estimating
           Visibility Impairment as a guide to decision-makers.

     (4)   Particulate standards do not address visibility-related effects. It is also true
           that the major anthropogenic visibility impairing pollutant is fine particulate
           matter. Since the Class I increment for particulate is in terms of total mass


                                                                                       373
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

              concentration, rather than fine particulates, visibility impairment could
              occur without the increment being violated. Furthermore, the particulate
              increment is a maximum allowable ground level concentration;
              consequently it will not protect visibility impaired by plumes at elevations
              above ground level. These facts form the basis for the Clean Air Act
              requirement that visibility should be assessed and regulated in a separate
              analysis. Div. Ex. S.

       (5)    The primary guidance for determinations of adverse impact to visibility
              would be the Workbook for Estimating Visibility Impairment, which has
              very specific guidelines.

2.     (Section XIV.B.) Pre-Application and Operational Monitoring of Air Quality
       Related Values (AQRVs)

Section XIV.B. of the regulation allows the Division to require a source, which will have
or is likely to have an impact on any Class 1 area to conduct monitoring to establish the
baseline status of and impacts on AQRVs in such Class 1 areas. EPA has not imposed
this requirement on applicants, although under EPA rules and the Commission rule,
Section IV.D.3.(a)(vi), an Additional Impact Analysis is required which would include an
analysis of impacts on AQRVs based on available data, for example, through literature
searches. The data gathered from such monitoring are important and necessary in
aiding the federal land manager of a Class 1 area in determining whether or not a
source will cause an adverse impact on AQRVs and the state in deciding on
concurrence with such determination. The data also aid the public information function
of the Additional Impacts Analysis. The authority to require submission of such
Information includes, but is not limited to, CRS 1973, 25-7-206(2), 25-7-106(5) and (6),
and 25-7-114(4).

A.     National Park Service and Forest Service Testimony and Positions

The National Park Service (“NPS”) and the Forest Service (“FS”) supported the rule as
a supplement to their current monitoring activities on the basis that the data is
necessary to determining adverse impacts on AQRV5, including visibility. See Mitchell,
Nov. 18 Tr. at 122 et seq., 161 et seq.; Haddow, 0ct. 28 (p.m.) Tr. At 22 et seq., Nov. 10


                                                                                          374
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Tr. at 68 et. Seq.; Region 2-USDA Forest Service Comments on Proposed PSD Rule;
Comments on the May 19, 1982 Proposed Colorado PSD Regulation by National Park
Service Air Quality Division.

The NPS stated its willingness to provide a list of sensitive receptors of AQRVs to
applicants for monitoring Mitchell, Nov. 18 Tr. at 162.

The Forest Service recognized severe technical difficulties and high costs of monitoring
some pollutants and visibility in wilderness areas. Haddow, Oct. 28 (p.m.) Tr. at 22 ~.
However, lichen monitoring could be done without great difficulty and special use
permits are available for some complex monitoring. Haddow, Nov. 10 (p.m.) Tr. at 112.,
The FS intends to identify sensitive indicators of AQRVs for each Class 1 area, e.g. 2 or
3 species of lichen and 2 or 3 scenic views, and proposes that the state require the
monitoring of such indicators Id. at 82-83.

B.     Environmental Defense Fund's (EDF) and Friends of the Earth's (FOE Position

EDF's and FOE's general contentions in support of the proposed monitoring
requirements were:

       1.     the technology for monitoring of AQRV's exist;

       2.     the Forest Service has identified AQRV's for wilderness areas;

       3.     although some monitoring is being done, most areas are not being
              monitored and will not be without the participation of industry;

       4.     decisions on adverse impacts to AQRV5 cannot be made rationally without
              reliable scientific evidence; and

       5.     the state is required to have a visibility monitoring program by EPA rules,
              40 CFR 51.305.

       “EDF and FOE Final Recommendations; Summaries of the Record and Legal
       and Policy Analyses,” Section IV.

C.     Trade Association Parties' Position

The Trade Association Parties' general contentions in opposition to the monitoring
requirements were:


                                                                                       375
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       1.     The Clean Air Act places the responsibility on the federal land manager to
              determine adverse impacts on AQRVs and, thus, the responsibility to
              obtain the data necessary to make such determination;

       2.     There is insufficient information available at this time to develop an AQRV
              monitoring program in that sensitive receptors for each Class 1 area have
              not been identified, there is no monitoring reference method available and
              no validated models to project impacts of particular emissions levels;

       3.     In some Class 1 areas monitoring is either physically impossible or
              inordinately expensive; and

       4.     The Division's discretion in specifying sensitive receptors is too vague and
              broad.

Trade Association Parties' Closing Argument at 31-34.

D.     Commission Analysis and Decision

The cited testimony and evidence and other portions of the record support the
conclusion that monitoring of AQRVs or sensitive receptors of AQRV5 would be helpful,
and in many cases necessary, to determine whether adverse impacts on AQRVs would
occur. It is also evident that baseline data are not available and may never be
developed by federal land managers for some AQRVs and sensitive receptors and for
some Class 1 areas. Thus, the primary issue is where to place the responsibility for
obtaining background data on AQRVs - the federal land manager, the state and/or the
applicant.

As the Forest Service suggested, it is traditional permitting practice to require a permit
applicant to obtain the data upon which the agency decides. Haddow, Nov. 10.(p.m.) Tr.
at 89. This practice is consistent with the economic philosophy that companies should
internalize their environmental costs. Furthermore, the Clean Air Act does not change
such practice; it places the “affirmative responsibility” on federal land managers to
protect AQRVs and to consider whether there will be an adverse impact on AQRVs but
does not expressly state whose responsibility it is to provide necessary data upon which
to exercise their responsibility.



                                                                                        376
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has determined that there is available research and test methods, for
obtaining background data and impact data on many AQRVs that will be critical in
making adverse impact determinations, even though there are not generally adopted
reference methods or modeling techniques. For example, to perform a reasonably
accurate visibility impairment analysis, background data is needed. Div. Ex. J. Although
there are no generally accepted reference methods for estimating visibility impacts,
methods for estimating visibility Impairment have been developed and are relatively
sophisticated. See Div. Ex. J.; Geier, Oct. 28 (a.m.) Tr. at 62-71. The rule recognizes this
potential limitation on monitoring AQRVs by only allowing monitoring if “monitoring
methods are reasonably available and research and development of monitoring
methods are unnecessary.”

In response to the objection that the Division's discretion in selecting AQRVs for
monitoring is too vague and broad, the rule provides:

       1.     A definition of AQRVs (in the Common Provisions Regulation);

       2.     That the Division will consult with the federal land manager in the selection
              of AQRVs; and

       3.     That the AQRVs selected must be important to the affected Class I area
              and there must be cause to believe that monitoring of the AQRVs will
              provide a basis for evaluating effects to the AQRVs.

In response to the objection that the monitoring of AQRVs may not be economically
reasonable, the rule provides that:

       1.     no duplication of monitoring may be required;

       2.     not more than three AQRVs may be required to be monitored;

       3.     monitoring methods must be reasonably available;

       4.     monitoring may only be required if the source is a major contributor to the
              expected effects on the AQRV; and

       5.     it is economically reasonable as compared to other monitoring and
              analysis expenses required of a PSD permit applicant.



                                                                                        377
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

SULFUR DIOXIDE AMBIENT AIR STANDARDS FOR THE STATE OF COLORADO

The proposed rule would have revised the Colorado ambient air quality standard for
sulfur dioxide to be consistent with the federal standard. Because the Colorado
standard is not enforceable in the permitting process, see CRS 1973, 25-7-114(4)(g),
the Commission ordered on November 10, 1982 That revisions of the state ambient air
quality standard for SO2 be removed as a subject of this rulemaking.

The Commission agreed to reconsider the state standard if and when it becomes
enforceable.

PUBLIC ACCESS TO CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

One party raised the issue of whether Section VII of Regulation NO. 3 improperly
restricts access to confidential information, which would be available under the Federal
Clean Air Act. Section VII may not be considered for amendment in this rulemaking due
to lack of public notice.

I.D.   Adopted March 10, 1983
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 (Excluding PSD Program Revisions)

This Rationale complies with the requirement of the Administrative Procedures Act,
C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-103(4), to prepare a Statement of Basis and Purpose for adopted
regulations. The statutory authority for these amendments are at C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-
102, 25-7-105, 25-7-106, 25-7-109, and 25-7-114.        These revisions to Regulation
Number 3, adopted February 10, 1982, are intended to clarify and further define certain
portions of the regulation adopted June 5, 1980. The 1980 revisions were extensive
changes designed to reflect the new provisions of the 1979 Colorado Air Quality Control
act (HB 1109); these changes reflect policy changes and clarifications to the existing
rule. The basis and purpose of each revision is discussed below.

I.     MINOR SIGNIFICANCE DETERMINATIONS FOR PERMIT AND APEN
       EXEMPTIONS

Section II.C.1.j. of Regulation Number 3 allows the Division to exempt sources from Air
Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN) filing and permit requirements if the criteria in this
Section are met. Since mid-1980, the Division has granted approximately 25


                                                                                          378
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

exemptions under Section II.C.1.j.. Of the approximately 700 permits issued by the
Division annually, 55 percent are to sources with uncontrolled emissions of less than 5
tons per year (tpy); 35 percent of the total permits are to sources with uncontrolled
emissions below 1 tpy. Thus, except for the specific source categories exempted by the
Commission under Section II.C.1. of Regulation Number 3, nearly every air pollution
source, no matter how minimal its emissions, has had to file an APEN and obtain a
permit. The record supports a finding that most sources of less than one ton per year
emissions and some of less than five tons per year emissions will have a negligible
impact on air quality and should be exempted from the APEN and/or permit
requirement.

On that basis and for the following more specific reasons and purposes the adopted
revisions to Section II regarding APEN filing exemptions and to Section III regarding
permit exemptions are intended to:

(a)    require APEN filing and permits for any source of hazardous, toxic or odorous air
       pollutants, however small the source. The Commission considers the gathering of
       information on, and the regulation of, such pollutants to be of high priority.

(b)    exempt sources of all other pollutants from both APEN filing and permit
       requirements when uncontrolled emissions from the source would be less than
       one tpy. Such sources, according to a Division study, account for less than 1
       percent of total uncontrolled emissions and would be anticipated to have 24-hour
       impacts, at a maximum, of less than 2 micrograms per cubic meter (uglm3)
       assuming 24 hours per day operation, a negligible impact given the localized
       area of the Impact.

(c)    require sources of other than hazardous, toxic or odorous pollutants whose
       uncontrolled emissions are less than five tpy but greater than or equal to one tpy
       to file an APEN. These sources would be exempt train permit requirements (with
       one exception) unless the Division demonstrated using specific guidelines that
       the source was significant. The Division would have to notify the source that a
       permit was required; otherwise, the source would be exempt from permit




                                                                                        379
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      requirements. The APEN should provide all needed information to preclude
      unnecessary delay in making such determinations.

      Emissions from these 1 to 5 tpy sources, according to a Division study, account
      for no more than two percent of total emissions, yet comprise 20 percent of the
      total sources obtaining permits. Such sources could, however, produce 24-hour
      ambient air impacts as high as 10 ug/m 3, which could be significant in certain
      cases, especially if such source would cause a violation of a NAAQS or
      increment or by itself or in combination with similar sources cause a health or
      welfare problem or interfere with reasonable further progress towards attainment.

      Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) sources are treated differently. The record
      demonstrates that 45 percent of the total of all uncontrolled stationary source
      VOC emissions are emitted by sources ranging from 1 to 5 tpy in size. Most of
      these sources locate in urban areas such as Denver, which is nonattainment for
      ozone. Since VOC emissions are an ozone precursor, such sources should be
      subject to permitting requirements to ensure compliance with applicable VOC
      emission limitations.

      Therefore, VOC sources equal to or exceeding 1 tpy (uncontrolled) locating in
      nonattainment areas must both file an APEN and obtain a permit. VOC sources
      ranging from 1 tpy to 5 tpy locating in attainment areas where there is less
      concern for ozone will be treated like other sources and will be at least required
      to file an APEN.

(d)   require sources of other pollutants whose uncontrolled emissions equal or
      exceed five tpy to file APENs and obtain permits unless specifically exempted
      from such requirements. These sources constitute approximately 98 percent of
      total uncontrolled emissions, and the Commission feels that such sources should
      be required to submit APENs and obtain permits unless specifically exempted as
      a class or as an individual source.

II.   “SIGNIFICANT CHANGE” IN EMISSIONS REQUIRING THE FILING OF A
      REVISED APEN




                                                                                        380
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The purpose of this revision to Sections II.B. and II.C. is to clarify and revise the
requirements for reporting changes in emissions (either increases or decreases) to the
Division.

The record shows that an acceptable emissions inventory, usually referred to as the EIS
(for Emissions Inventory Subsystem), is essential for effective air quality management
and that the revised APENs provide an effective system for obtaining EIS data. Revised
APENs reporting significant changes in emissions are required by statute, C.R.S. 1973,
25-7-114(1), and the $40 fee for a revised APEN defrays the cost of processing the
information (see “Fiscal Impact”). The levels set for reporting emissions changes are
significant and will allow the effective tracking of air quality changes and use for air
quality management.

It is obvious, however, that there has been confusion concerning these requirements in
the past. The following statements should clarify the confusion:

A.     Revised APENs reporting significant changes in emissions are to reflect actual
       emissions for the preceding year, not projected or maximum emissions. Actual
       emissions are the emissions actually emitted by a source into the atmosphere on
       an annual basis, determined as accurately as is feasible using production or
       processing or combustion rates, and emission factors, or test results, or other
       accepted methods for estimating emission rates. These actual emission rates are
       the “actual emissions used in the PSD definition of “actual emissions”, except
       that for PSD, an “actual emission” rate can be ignored if it is not representative of
       “normal” operation. The APEN forms should clearly distinguish an APEN filed
       with a permit application (which estimates maximum anticipated production or
       emission levels) and a revised APEN (which reports actual emissions when a
       significant change in emissions has occurred). Changes in emission rates
       reported on a revised APEN shall not be used to modify allowable emissions
       rates or permit conditions for the source unless the revised APEN is filed
       specifically for the purpose of modifying an existing permit or obtaining a new
       permit, in which case the APEN must (1) be accompanied by an application,
       written request, or letter of explanation from the applicant and (2) reflect



                                                                                           381
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       maximum anticipated production or emission level changes resulting from the
       requested action, not “actual” emissions from the existing source.

B.     Each affected source should discuss with the Division the most efficient format in
       which significant changes can be reported and the degree to which similar
       emission sources can be combined for reporting purposes. It is the intent of the
       Commission that the Division carry out this flexible approach to the maximum
       extent possible in order to reduce the burden on regulated sources.

       The Commission has made these revisions economically reasonable by easing
       the burden of reporting by allowing the use of any mutually convenient reporting
       format in lieu of a “standard” form and by allowing individual, but similar, emission
       point sources to be grouped. It should be stressed that this grouping of emission
       point sources for purposes of reporting significant changes to the Division does
       not constitute, nor does it set any precedent for, any netting or bubbling or other
       emission trading approach; emission trading can be conducted only through
       specific regulations pertaining to this activity. These APEN groupings also do not
       relieve the source of any obligation to meet any emission control limitations for
       specific point sources within the group.

       In general, the reporting requirements for significant changes have been given
       greater latitude than existed before, partly in response to concerns that, at certain
       reporting levels, the accuracy requested exceeds the accuracy of the available
       data, and in response to EPA requirements for reporting EIS changes which are
       in the range of 5 tpy for small sources or 5 percent for 100 tpy or larger sources.
       The adopted “significant change” definition reflects a deliberate selection based
       on the public hearing testimony and the exhibits and testimony submitted by the
       Division and interested parties during these deliberations. For odorous,
       hazardous or toxic pollutants, any emissions change must be reported (again, on
       an annual basis). With changes of only 0.0004 tpy (for beryllium), for example,
       considered “significant” by EPA, close scrutiny of all hazardous, toxic and
       odorous pollutants is needed.

III.   REVISED APEN FEES


                                                                                        382
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

An issue raised is whether the Commission has statutory authority to require a $40.00
filing fee with a revised APEN. The statutory authority for a fee states, “Any person
required by the Commission to file an air pollutant emission notice shall pay a
nonrefundable fee of forty dollars....” C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-114(5)(a). The statutory
authority for requiring the filing of APENs and revised APENs refers to: “air pollutant
emission notice” and “revised emission notice”, C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-114, the latter
reference being to “revised (air pollutant) emission notice”. Section 25-7-114(5)(a) does
not limit the $40.00 fee to initial APENs filed for a source but refers simply to “air
pollutant emission notice” which may be interpreted to include both initial and revised
APENs. Testimony by the Division estimated the administrative costs of processing a
revised APEN at over $40.00. For these reasons, the Commission finds that it has
authority and should charge a $40.00 filing fee for revised APENs.

IV.    NON-PERMITTED SOURCE APPLICABILITY

A source existing before the adoption of the first Colorado Air Quality Control Act and
the date of its implementing regulations of February 1, 1972, is not required to obtain a
permit. This revision is intended to clarify the date prior to which existing sources are
considered “grandfathered” and exempt from a permit requirement.

V.     STATIONARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE EXEMPTION

The purpose of this revision is to decrease the extent of the exemption for stationary
internal combustion engines. Prior to this revision, stationary internal combustion
engines less than 1000 HP in attainment areas and less than 250 HP in nonattainment
areas were exempt from permit requirements. The record shows that these sources not
only constitute large individual sources (a 1000 HP engine can emit 96 tpy of NOx), but
also can be situated close to each other (one compressor station in Colorado consists
of 15 925 HP stationary internal combustion engines which can emit a total of 1340 tpy
NOx). Small stationary internal combustion engines in terms of emissions (less than 5
tpy) or size (less than 50 HP) are excluded from permit requirements. In addition, the
Commission has retained the exclusion from permit requirements for emergency power
generators and added exclusion for stationary internal combustion engines powering
portable oil drilling rigs.


                                                                                          383
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The exclusion for stationary internal combustion engines on portable oil drilling rigs is
based on testimony and on information developed by the Division which indicates that
these sources move frequently (average 10 days per well site), generally are located at
remote sites, and emit only 1.3 tons N02 per well drilled. The Division indicated that the
total estimated NOx emissions from portable oil drilling rigs in Colorado could be as high
as 2200 tpy and that this could increase the total NO emissions inventory in specific
active drilling areas by as much as 50 percent. To determine if an air quality problem
exists for these sources, testimony from the Colorado Petroleum Association (CPA)
indicates a willingness to provide the information needed by the Division to assess
emissions by modifying existing data-gathering reports.

One party requested a delayed effective date for this revision so that compressor
stations planned for construction during the summer of 1983 would not be held up by an
unanticipated requirement that permits be obtained. Such a request is reasonable, and
the delayed effective date of October 1; 1983, has been adopted.

VI.    PUBLIC COMMENT FOR DEMOLITION AND NONATTAINMENT AREA
       PERMITS

Since the record shows that sources for which public comment has been received are in
every case either large (greater than 25 tpy) or controversial (e.g., odorous emissions),
the public comment requirement for sources in nonattainment areas is being raised from
5 tpy to 25 tpy, which makes it the same as for sources locating in attainment areas.
Demolition projects have been exempted from public comment requirements because
they often need to be completed, by contract agreement, in a short period of time, and
the need for public comment has on occasion been an unnecessary time delay. Very
few public responses have been received for small demolition projects. The Division
retains the authority to require public comment for demolition projects if considered
warranted for reasons of asbestos emissions or other significant concerns.

VII.   CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE DEADLINES

Under previous rules, owners and operators applying for new permits have not been
held to any time limits for commencing construction or operation once the permit to
operate has been obtained. Sources must be evaluated (C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-114(4)(b))


                                                                                         384
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

to determine whether operation of the source will comply with all applicable regulations,
an evaluation that can be made with an acceptable degree of certainty provided that the
source actually does construct and operate within a reasonable period of time following
receipt of the permit. However, a source which delays construction for a number of
years may finally initiate operation at a time when ambient air concentrations or other
factors used in evaluating compliance have changed; in addition, delaying construction
and operation results in the reserving of emissions that could have been used by other
applicants.

This provision implements an 18-month construction deadline, imposed by the Division,
to all sources, major and minor, statewide. Owners and operators will be prevented from
applying for a permit without intending to construct in the near future, a form of
“reserving” emissions or increments which makes compliance analysis difficult and
could inhibit real economic growth in the state. Under these provisions, the Division will
grant necessary extensions to permits that are issued, so a source with good reason for
delaying a project would not be penalized by loss of a permit.

VIII.   NON-REACTIVE VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (NRVOCs)

The EPA maintains a list of NRVOCs, which are considered either totally non-reactive or
insignificantly reactive in the formation of ozone. NRVOCs can therefore be used to
replace reactive VOCs as offsets.

A list of additions to this list appeared in the July 22, 1980 Federal Register. The
revision to Regulation Number 3 updates the list of NRVOC5, which are non-hazardous,
to conform to EPA's revised list of NRVOC. In addition to this, the revision extends the
concept of NRVOC Statewide (instead of nonattainment areas only), and clarifies that
NRVOCs will be reviewed separately during initial approval analysis of a new source.
Previously, NRVOCs pertained to nonattainment areas only and were used only based
on emission-offset credit. The revision clarifies that NRVOCs can be substituted for
VOCs for banking and other emission reduction credits.

IX.     CLEAN PORTION OF NON-ATTAINMENT AREA




                                                                                       385
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

No revisions to Sections IV.D.2.c. or IV.D.3.b. were made because the State Act
provides for the exemption of Section IV.D.2.c. at C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-303.

I.E.    Adopted March 19, 1987
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 Section II.C.1.

The specific statutory authority under which the Commission shall hold and conduct this
hearing is prescribed by 24-4-103, 25-7-105, -106, -110, and the hearing will be
conducted in accord with provisions of 24-4-103 and 25-7-110, C.R.S. 1982 and the
Commission’s Procedural Rules.

The revision to Regulation Number 3 Section II. C. 1. is an addition to the list of
sources, which are exempt from filing Air Pollution Emission notices. Addition of Part l.
(small L) to this regulation exempts petroleum industry flares, approved by the Oil and
Gas Conservation Commission, from having to file an Air Pollution Emission Notice
(APEN) if emissions of any pollutant do not exceed five (5) tons per year. This
exemption only applies to flares, which do not combust gas containing hydrogen sulfide
(H2S) except in trace amounts, since H2S is classified as a hazardous air pollutant.
Previously APENS were required for these flares when emissions exceeded 1 ton per
year.

The Air Quality Control Commission adopts this change for the following reasons:

        1)    Records of the amount of gas flared will be kept by the Oil and Gas
              Commission and made available to the Division;

        2)    The flaring is a temporary activity in most cases;

        3)    Statewide emissions from flares are relatively low, with nitrogen oxides
              (NOX) being the main pollutant emitted (emissions of NOx from flares is
              approximately 200 tons per year statewide, while total stationary source
              NOx emissions are over 160,000 tons per year in Colorado);

        4)    Ambient impacts from flares are low;

        5)    No hazardous pollutants will be emitted;

        6)    Larger flares will still have to be permitted by the Division.



                                                                                         386
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.F.   Adopted November 19, 1987
Addition of Section XV to Air Quality Control Commission Regulation Number 3
Regulation Requiring an Air Contaminant Emission Notice, Emission Permit Fees

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirement of the Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103 (4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

This revision to Regulation Number 3, adopted November 19, 1987, is intended to bring
the Colorado regulations into conformance with current U.S. EPA regulations. U.S.
EPA's regulations were revised in response to a court order which required each state
to develop a program to assess and remedy visibility impairment in Class I areas from
new and existing sources, as established in Section 169A of the Clean Air Act.

Section XV. is added to Regulation Number 3 as part of the State's plan to meet the
national goal of preventing future, and remedying existing, visibility impairment in Class
I areas. Section XV. Together with this Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority
and Purpose and the monitoring and long-term strategies represents Colorado's State
Implementation Plan (SIP).

This Regulation addresses a type of visibility impairment, which can be traced to a
single source or small group of sources known as reasonably attributable impairment.
The U.S. EPA deferred action on the regulation of regional haze and urban plumes due
to scientific and technical limitations in visibility monitoring techniques and modeling
methods.

The FLMs were consulted and their suggestions considered in developing the plan. In
addition, the Commission provided public notice 60 days prior to the public hearing
stating that interested parties would be given the opportunity to provide testimony
concerning the Regulation and its requirements at the hearing. Wyoming, Utah and New
Mexico were also sent notice of the hearing.

Section XV.D. allows the FLMs to certify visibility impairment to the Division Director at
any time. At such time of certification, the Division must assess the impairment, identify
the contributing source(s), and conduct a Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART)



                                                                                           387
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

analysis for any contributing sources located in Colorado. The FLMs have not certified
reasonably attributable impairment as of this adoption date. Section D. also requires
BART and is incorporated for future use, if necessary.

Any source subject to the BART requirements of this Section may apply to the U.S. EPA
Administrator for an exemption. The application to the U.S. EPA must include a written
concurrence from the Division and Commission; therefore, the source must first apply to
the Division, as set forth in Section D.2.c. An exemption granted by the Division and
approved by the Commission will constitute the written concurrence required by U.S.
EPA.

The New Source Review requirement of Section XV.E. is included for purpose of
reinforcing Sections IV.D.2.a. (vi) and IV.D.3.a. (vi).

In addition to existing and new source review, the Division must develop a visibility
monitoring strategy to collect information on visibility conditions and must develop a
long-term (10-15 year) strategy to assure progress towards the national goal. The
monitoring plan and the long-term strategy are set forth in the SIP submitted to the U.S.
EPA. Section XV.F. provides procedures for reviewing and revising the long-term
strategy.

State Implementation Plan for Class I Visibility Protection State of Colorado

The purpose of this plan is to assure reasonable progress towards meeting the national
goal of preventing future, and remedying existing, visibility impairment in Class I areas.

The plan includes provisions for existing and new source review (attached as
Regulation Number 3, Section XV.), a monitoring strategy, a long-term strategy, and
consultation with FLMs.

Monitoring Strategy

The State of Colorado's Class I Visibility monitoring strategy is based on meeting four
goals:

         1.   Provide information for new source visibility impact analysis;




                                                                                         388
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       2.     Determine existing conditions, in Class I areas and the source(s) of any
              certified impairment;

       3.     Determine actual effects from the operation of new sources or
              modifications to major sources on nearby Class I areas; and

       4.     Establish visibility trends in Class I areas in order to evaluate progress
              toward meeting the national goals of visibility protection.

The goals will be achieved through a combination of objectives concerning monitoring,
gathering and evaluating existing visibility data, and mechanisms for the use of visibility
data in decision-making.

Potential new major stationary sources or major modifications to existing stationary
sources subject to the Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation Number 3,
Section IV.3, are required to perform an analysis of visibility impacts on potentially
affected Class I areas. The analysis must be conducted utilizing existing visibility data, if
any. The Division must consider and evaluate available data from potentially affected
Class I areas or other areas that may be representative of background conditions in the
Class I area(s) of interest. If data is adequate, the permittee will be notified of the
background or base level of visibility against which impacts will be assessed
(Regulation Number 3, Section IV.3.(a)(iii)(D)). If visibility data is not adequate,
Regulation Number 3, Section XIV. allows the Division to require any source, which will
have or is likely to have an impact on any Class I area to conduct monitoring to
establish baseline status of visibility. The monitoring information will be used in the new
source review analysis and will add to the background and trend data bank of that Class
I area. No monitoring shall be required if it is currently being conducted by any federal,
state, or local agency (AQCC Regulation Number 3, Section XIV.B.1).

FLMs may at any time identify to the Division Class I areas where emissions from a
specific source or small group of sources may be causing or contributing to visibility
impairment in the Class I area. The Division will determine if emissions from any local
sources can be reasonably attributed to cause or contribute to the documented visibility
impairment. In making this determination the Division will consider all available data
including the following:


                                                                                           389
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       1.     Data supplied by the FLM;

       2.     The number and type of sources likely to impact visibility in the Class I
              area;

       3.     The existing emissions and control measures on the source(s);

       4.     The prevailing meteorology near the Class I area; and

       5.     Any modeling, which may have been done for other air quality programs.

The Division may be unable to make a decision regarding “reasonable attribution” of
visibility impairment from an existing source or sources using available data. The
Division will make available to the affected FLML and the U.S. EPA a discussion of what
data was considered and what measures the Division is taking, if any, to resolve the
situation. The Division may consider modeling the impact of nearby suspected sources
with existing visibility models. Funding and other factors may limit the Division's ability to
unilaterally initiate studies designed to establish “reasonable attribution”. Therefore, the
Division may join with the FLMs, the suspected source(s), the U.S. EPA, and others in
implementing special monitoring and analysis programs to address the specific
problem.

The Division will sponsor or share in the operation of visibility stations with FLMs as the
need arises and resources allow. Fiscal, logistical, and other considerations may
constrain the Division in conducting visibility monitoring in Class I areas.

The Division will request from each FLM responsible for Class I areas in Colorado
copies of any and all past or existing programs designed to monitor or evaluate visibility.
All future visibility data gathered by each FLM will also be requested, including any
analysis and interpretation.

The Division will assemble and evaluate the visibility data supplied by the FLM in
addition to any other data collected by the Division or any other appropriate source
(such as a proposed major stationary source) on an annual basis.

Long-Term Strategy (LTS)




                                                                                          390
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission shall review the strategy set forth below and prepare a public report as
required in Section XV.F. The FLMs shall be consulted throughout all phases of the LTS
development and revisions.

A Commission subcommittee will be established to address the following components of
the LTS:

       1.     Statewide visibility standards

       2.     Smoke management

       3.     Vistas

       4.     PM10 and PM2.5 emissions

       5.     Any other components the subcommittee deems applicable.

The Division is pursuing the adoption of statewide visibility standards. The
subcommittee will determine how and if standards should be set and how the standards
will apply to various areas of the state. Although the end result may apply to regional
haze, Class I areas will benefit from statewide standards.

The Division presently has smoke management agreements with the FLMs. The
affected agencies are required to obtain an open burning permit from the Division.
Virtually all controlled burns are for wildlife habitat and range management; little
slash/timber management burning occurs.

The Division believes existing smoke management techniques do not adversely affect
visibility in Class I areas. The subcommittee will address this issue to determine how
smoke management should be integrated into the LTS. If necessary, the existing
agreements may be revised during the LTS review process. The Division will continue to
coordinate with the FLMs to insure that best smoke management techniques are
employed.

The FLMs declined to identify integral vistas (important views of landmarks or
panoramas that extend outside of the boundaries of the Class I areas and considered
critical to the enjoyment of the areas). The Commission is therefore not required to
address vistas but may do so under their own authority. The subcommittee shall



                                                                                          391
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

determine if integral vistas and/or other scenic vistas should be identified, and if so, the
criteria to be used for such identification. Any vistas shall be identified using the specific
criteria developed by the subcommittee.

The Division is in process of studying PM10 emissions and their role in the formation of
Denver's brown cloud. Conceivably, such studies could lead to information and
strategies related to visibility impairment. The subcommittee will address the integration
of this component into the LTS.

The FLMs and Division have not identified reasonably attributable impairment at this
time, therefore the Commission will not address source retirement and replacement,
construction activities, and enforceability of emission limitations. Should the FLMs or
Division identify impairment from a specific source or small groups of sources, the
Commission will address these issues during the LTS review process.

Each time the LTS is reviewed, the following six factors (at minimum) must be
addressed.

       1.      Emission reductions due to ongoing air pollution control programs.

       2.      Additional emission limitations and schedules for compliance.

       3.      Measures to mitigate the impacts of construction activities.

       4.      Source retirement and replacement schedules.

       5.      Smoke management techniques for agricultural and forestry management
               purposes including such plans as currently exist within the State for these
               purpose, and

       6.      Enforcement of emission limitations and control measures.

Consultation with Federal Land Managers (FLMs)

The Division as part of the implementation of this Regulation will send within 30 days of
its adoption written notification to the FLMs stating that the Division Director is the
official to whom any recommendations may be sent regarding Colorado's SIP for Class I
visibility protection, including but not limited to:

       1.      Integral vistas to be listed by the state;


                                                                                          392
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       2.      Identification of impairment of visibility in any Class I area(s), and

       3.      Identification of elements for inclusion in the monitoring strategy.

The Division will provide the opportunity for consultation with the FLMs, in person and at
least 60 days prior to any public hearing on any element of the SIP. The Division is
interested in the FLMs opinion regarding:

       1.      Assessment of impairment of visibility in any Class I area, and

       2.      Recommendation on the development of the long-term strategy.

The FLMs may contact the Division Director at any time regarding the implementation of
the SIP for Class I visibility protection.

I.G.   Adopted August 8, 1988
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 and the Common Provisions Definitions

Revisions are made to Regulation Number 3 and definitions in the Common Provisions.
Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and New Source Review (nonattainment)
requirements are revised to conform to the Federal regulations. Provisions for the
regulation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for particulate matter
(PM-10) are added. Section V, concerning certification of Emission reduction, is revised
to conform to Federal requirements. Other minor changes are made to clarify existing
policies. Requirements for Revised Air Pollution Emission Notices (APENS), Air Quality
Related Value (AQRV) monitoring, solid waste fuel, and temporary sources are revised.

Dual Definition of Source

Federal regulations require the use of the dual definition of source for nonattainment
areas. (See discussion, in the August 7, 1980 Federal Register, 45 FR52680 and
52693). The concept is intended to provide for more air pollution control in
nonattainment areas, such that more rapid progress can be made toward attaining the
standards.

When determining if a source locating in an attainment area is major, emission
increases and decreases at the entire facility are considered. When determining if a
source located in a nonattainment area is major, two cases are examined. First, if the



                                                                                         393
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

single piece of equipment or modification itself represents a major source or significant
increase, nonattainment review applies. Second, if the piece of equipment itself is not
major, examine the entire facility as for attainment area sources. If a significant increase
occurs, nonattainment review applies.

The definition of “Stationary Source” in the Common Provisions indicates the
Commission intended to use the dual definition (see also the Statement of Basis and
Purpose, March 10, 1983). The definition of “Net Emission Increase”, Part K, however,
incorrectly stated that only the single piece of equipment is examined. This was less
stringent than Federal law and allowed facilities to install a series of de minimus units
whose aggregate emissions could be significant, without undergoing nonattainment
review. Part K is corrected to allow the Division to use the dual definition.

When the dual definition is used, nonattainment review applies to reconstructed
sources. Section IV.D.2.a clarifies this.

Section IV.D.2.a. also clarifies that nonattainment review applies only to nonattainment
pollutants emitted in major amounts. This differs from PSD requirements, which apply to
attainment pollutants emitted in significant amounts if the source is major for any
pollutant (attainment or nonattainment). (See discussion, 45FR52676.)

Fugitive Emissions

The Colorado Air Quality Control act includes fugitive emissions when calculating a
source's potential to emit only if the Commission adopts regulations to include fugitive
emissions for that source category. (See Statement of Basis and Purpose, March 10,
1983). Federal law requires that fugitive emissions are included for all “listed” sources
(those listed in the definition of major source). The Commission is adopting the
requirement to include fugitive emissions for all listed sources.

Portions of the Colorado Act Not Allowed in Federal Act

Portions of Regulation Number 3 are not allowed in the Federal Regulations, but are
contained in the Colorado Act and therefore cannot be removed from regulation Number
3 until removed from the Colorado Act. The items are discussed below. The Division will




                                                                                        394
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

not honor these items unless an applicant insists, in which case a permit from the EPA
will be required to meet Federal law.

Best Available Control Technology (BACT):

The Colorado Act's definition of BACT states that revisions to New Source Performance
Standards (NSPS, Regulation 6) or National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
Pollutants (NESHAPS, Regulation 8) made after April 10, 1983 (the effective date of the
definition) can't be used to determine BACT. The Federal Act requires that BACT can't
exceed the NSPS or NESHAP in effect at the time of application. The Division will make
BACT determinations taking into consideration the most current NSPS and NESHAP
regulations.

Clean area in nonattainment area: The Colorado Act and Section IV.d.2.B.ii allows
exemption from nonattainment requirements if the source proves they are located in a
clean portion of a nonattainment area. This is not allowed in the Federal Act.

Shale oil exemption: The Colorado Act and Section I.B.2.C.viii excludes from the
definition of major modification a fuel switch to shale oil or coal/oil mixtures. This is not
allowed in the Federal Act.

Fugitive Dust Exemption: The Colorado Act and Regulation Number 3 does not include
fugitive dust that does not adversely affect public health or welfare when calculating a
source's potential to emit. The March 10, 1983 Statement of Basis, Authority, and
Purpose discusses the Commission's previous position. - The discussion indicates that
when the EPA promulgates new standards for particulate matter the fugitive dust issue
will be resolved. The EPA has promulgated a new NAAQS for PM-10, which replaces
the TSP NAAOS. The PSD increments, however, are still based on TSP. PM-l0 fugitive
emissions can thus be used to determine potential to emit, but some question remains
as to whether or not TSP fugitive emissions should be used. The EPA is developing PM-
10 increment standards. In the interim, if a source does not want to include fugitive dust
(TSP or PM-10) for a State permit, an EPA permit may have to be obtained.

Permit Review Time Frame: The Colorado act contains specific time frames for
processing permits (60 days, etc.). Section IV.F of Regulation Number 3 states that a



                                                                                           395
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

permit is automatically issued if the Division fails to meet the time constraints. This is not
acceptable for major source review. PSD and major nonattainment applications are
often complex. The Federal Act allows one year to complete the review process
(including public notice, hearings, etc.). The Division will automatically ask for a time
extension for major source applications. If an extension is not granted and/or the time
frame is not met, an EPA permit will be required.

Other Minor Revisions

These definitions are revised as follows to conform to the Federal Act: “construction”
now includes demolition and modification; “enforceable” now includes Regulations
Number 6 and 8; “Lowest Achievable Emission Rate” does not allow BACT to be
exceeded.

References to the “Board” are deleted and replaced with “Commission” throughout the
Regulation. The (Hearings) Board no longer exists.

Class I areas in neighboring states are recognized in Section VIII.

Section VIII.K is added to allow redesignation of an area to class III if a permit can't be
obtained unless the area is redesignated and sufficient public notice is given. The
Federal Act requires this.

Section XIII.B exempts Innovative Control Technology from BACT only, not all of the
PSD requirements. This conforms to the Federal Act.

Public notice procedures (Section IV.C) for major sources are expanded and clarified to
conform to the Federal Act.

The word “new' is removed from Section IV.D.2.a.iv to clarify that alternate sitting
studies apply to new and modified sources.

Exemption c under the definition of modification is removed. This exemption allowed
sources choosing to improve control of particulate matter to increase SO2 emissions
without the need for>additional S02 control. (See Statement of Basis, Authority and
Purpose, March 10, 1983). This exemption is no longer allowed, since it is inconsistent
with the Federal Act.



                                                                                            396
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The language pertaining to interim PSD authority is deleted. The State received full
authority on September 2, 1986.

Annual fee requirements are added to Section VI. This provision was added to Section
25-7-114(5)(a) of the Colorado Act on July 1, 1987.

Household use of paints and solvents is exempt from APEN and permit requirements.
The Division classifies these materials as toxic air pollutants which would require
permits if emitted in any amount. The Division does not have available resources to
regulate this activity.

The six-month, 25 acre APEN and permit exemption clarifies that all mining operations
must obtain a permit (unless exempt elsewhere).

Temporary sources operating less than one month may receive initial and final permits
at the same time. The Division will thus avoid issuing final permits for sources that no
longer exist. The Division has discretion to issue the permits separately if the operator
or owner of the source or the source type has a history of compliance problems.

PM-10 NAAQS

This new standard replaces the Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) standard for Federal
purposes only. The State is adopting the PM-10 requirements and is also retaining the
TSP standard at least until the EPA approves our PM-10 State Implementation Plan.
This will ensure that Reasonable Further Progress will be maintained in the interim.

The PM-10 standard is implemented under Section 110 of the Federal Clean Air Act.
The other criteria pollutants are regulated under Section 107, which includes provisions
for designated nonattainment areas, emission offsets, and sanctions for areas where
the standard is exceeded. Section 110 does not utilize nonattainment areas; it requires
that the standard be met in all areas. The State regulations applied specifically to
designated attainment and nonattainment areas. Since there are no PM-10 designated
areas, reference to pollutants regulated under Section 110 is added in several places to
ensure regulation of PM-10.

PM-10 sources that impact an area where the standard is exceeded are “major” if they
emit 100 tons per year or more of PM-10. Such a source is then subject to PSD


                                                                                       397
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements (Section I.4.a). Such sources must also offset their impact to the degree
which it exceeds the standard (as opposed to sources of other criteria pollutants, which
must offset total emissions). Offsets will be required as part of the PSD source impact
analysis, as necessary.

PM-l0 fugitive emissions are included when calculating potential to emit. (See
discussion under Portions of the Colorado Act not allowed in Federal Act in this
Statement of Basis, Authority and Purpose).

PSD increments are still regulated in the TSP form, therefore significant emissions and
impact levels exist for both PM-10 and TSP. PSD will apply to TSP until the EPA
promulgates PM-10 increments.

New definitions are added to the Common Provisions to differentiate between
particulate matter, PM-10 and TSP.

The EPA has left regulation of minor sources to the state. Section IV.D.3.E is added to
require minor sources locating in areas where the PM-10 standard is being exceeded to
apply BACT.

The Commission had the option to add PM-10 monitoring “phase in” provisions.
Methods and equipment are reasonably available, therefore, phase in is not necessary.

Corrections to typographical errors are made for significant ambient levels of beryllium,
lead, and hydrogen sulfide. (Section IV.D.3.b.iii)

Revised Air Pollution Emission Notices (APENS)

Section II.B requires Revised APENS when a significant change in emissions occurs.
The definition of net emission increase requires that a Revised APEN be filed to receive
credit for decreases. Historically, the Division has not received all of the APENS
required. The April 1 deadline and calendar year requirement are added for clarification.
The removal of a piece of equipment represents a significant change and the
requirement for submittal of an APEN to cancel a permit is added for clarification. These
clarifications will help the Division update the Emission Inventory System; proper credit
will be received for emission decreases; and sources will avoid being charged an
annual fee for equipment, which no longer exists.


                                                                                      398
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Regulation now requires all portable sources to submit revised APENS prior to
relocating, regardless of the length of time at the new site. This helps the Division track
sources in the event complaints are received.

Air Quality Related Value (AQRV) Monitoring

Section XIV.B.4.c limited the cost of AORV monitoring to 1/4 of the cost of the Additional
Impact Analysis, including preconstruction monitoring. The Federal Land Managers
testified that such a limit is not sufficient to provide even minimal AQRV monitoring. The
limit is removed and the Division will determine economic feasibility on a case-by-case
basis.

Section XIV.B.1. is revised to require joint monitoring among all major sources affecting
an AQRV in the same Class I area. This will provide for ongoing, high quality data.

Waste Fuel Exemptions

Sections I.B.2.C.iii and IV.D.1.c.i (F) exempted switches to fuel derived from municipal
solid waste from new source review. Due to the public's increased concern for
toxic/hazardous emissions, many sources now undergo scrutiny for such emissions. All
sources should be treated equally when proposing to burn municipal solid waste and
should be required to apply the best control for reducing toxic/hazardous emissions.
The exemptions for solid waste fuel are deleted.

Emission Reduction Credits

Revisions made to this portion of the Regulation are based on the Emission Trading
Policy Statement; General Principles for Creation, Banking and Use of Emission
Reduction Credits as published in 51FR43814. That Policy set out general principles
that EPA will use to evaluate emission trades under the Clean Air Act. The goal of that
Policy is to create more flexibility for the states and industry to help meet the goals of
the Clean Air Act more quickly and inexpensively. The purpose of Colorado adopting the
salient points of that Policy is to create a generic regulation, which is acceptable to EPA,
and thereby eliminate the need for a SIP revision for every banking or emission trading
action. Other than clarifications and procedural changes the key changes to this portion
of the Regulation include:



                                                                                         399
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       a.     A greater than 20% discount will be taken in areas without approved SIPs.
              The discount will be based on the level of reduction in emissions needed
              in that area to achieve attainment status.

       b.     Added provisions for trading of PM-10, lead and NOx

       c.     Added new criteria for modeling to determine ambient equivalence of
              trades.

       d.     Shutdowns and curtailments in production emission reductions may be
              used for on-site replacement of equipment only.

       e.     Specify no credit allowed for reduction in emissions from mobile sources
              unless those sources were subject to ambient impact and new source
              review.

       f.     Credit for switching to a cleaner fuel is given only if a permit is conditioned
              to require control equipment to achieve the same reduction if the source
              switches back to the dirtier fuel.

I.H.   Adopted September 15, 1998
“A Regulation Requiring Air Contaminant Emission Notices, Emission permits
and Fees”

With the passage of HB 1372, 1st session of the 56TH GA, two stationary source fees
were established for FY 1987-88. An annual compliance-monitoring fee of $60.00 per
source was to be charged .to each permitted source. An hourly rate of $96.00 was to be
applied to all permit processing time. After 1987-88 these fees were to be set by the
Commission. These fees were to cover the “direct and indirect costs of such permit]
processing. In establishing such fees, the Commission shall provide a higher per hour
charge for permits which require five hours or more than for permits which require less
than five hours to process; except that for the fiscal year 1987-88, the fee shall be
ninety-six dollars per hour for all permits. In addition to such fee for processing, the
Commission shall establish and as necessary revise non-refundable annual fees for
each emissions source covered by a stationary source permit sufficient to cover the




                                                                                           400
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

direct and indirect costs of administration and periodic inspections; except that for the
fiscal year 1987-88, the fee shall be sixty dollars per year for each emissions source.”

The Division has performed a thorough analysis of the direct and indirect costs of the
permit and compliance monitoring programs and has proposed fees to the Commission
designed to meet statutory requirements.

Statutory Authority

The statutory authority for this regulation is Section 25-7-114.

Section VI - Fees

A.     General

Paragraph 1 of this Subsection requires that all persons required to obtain an emission
permit or file an air pollution emission notice pay fees sufficient to recover the direct and
indirect costs of processing and issuing permits in accordance with the fee schedule
shown in the Regulation. With this regulatory change, the following language was struck
to be consistent with the statutory language: '...to include the reasonable costs of such
processing or administration, and of enforcement of the permit provisions. Such costs
shall include the cost of predictive model utilization when the use of such models is
deemed necessary by the Division for proper evaluation of the permit application.”
Paragraph 2 is unchanged.

Sub-Sections B and C are unchanged

D.     Annual Fees

Sub-Section D is changed by noting that the annual fees to be charged are in
accordance with the schedule shown in the Regulation.

Fee Schedule

The fee schedule shows what the fees are for the hourly processing charge, the annual
charge, and the APEN.

I.I.   Adopted August 20, 1992
Revisions Concerning the Long-Term Strategy to Protect Visibility in Class I
Areas (Section XV.F)


                                                                                         401
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Authority

Colorado Air Quality Control Act

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission's (Commission) authority to revise
Regulation Number 3.XV.F, concerning the Long-Term Strategy Review of Colorado's
State Implementation Plan for Class I Visibility Protection, is in the Colorado Air Quality
Control Act. Relevant Sections are 25-7-102 Legislative declaration and 25-7-
105(1)(a)(I) Duties of Commission.

Federal Clean Air Act

Additional authority for the Commission to make the regulatory revisions can be traced
to the 1977 Amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act. Section 169(A) requires the
federal Environmental Protection Agency to promulgate regulations that in turn require
states to amend their State Implementation Plans (SIPs) to provide for Class I visibility
protection - including a long-term strategy for making reasonable progress toward the
national visibility goal. On December 2, 1980, EPA released final regulations to states
detailing the specific requirements - including the development and periodic revision of
a long-term strategy as specified by federal law.

Statement of Basis and Purpose of Changes to Regulation Number 3 Section XV.F.

Section XV.F.1.c.

Commission Regulation Number 3 required a Long-Term Strategy (LTS) review/revision
report from the Colorado Air Pollution Control Division (Division) to the Commission
every three years following the effective date of the regulation (November 1987). The
August 1992 LTS report from the Division is late in arriving to the Commission. The
purpose of the regulatory change is to clarify when subsequent LTS review and revision
report cycles will occur. Without a regulatory change, the next LTS review would be due
September 1993 - approximately a year from adoption of the August 1992 report.

In order to maintain the intent that a report is to arrive to the Commission, and ultimately
EPA, at least every three years and to allow the Division to get back on schedule with a
report to the Commission in approximately three years, Section XV.F.1.c. was altered.

Old language:


                                                                                        402
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        (c)     The Division shall prepare a report for the Commission on any progress
                made toward the national visibility goal since the last long-term strategy
                revisions. The report will be made available on September First of every
                third year following the effective date of this regulation. This report shall
                include an assessment of:

New language (changes underlined):

        (c)     The Division shall prepare a report for the Commission on any progress
                made toward the national visibility goal since the last long-term strategy
                revisions. The report will be made available by September First at least
                every third year following the submittal of the previous report. This report
                shall include an assessment of:

Section XV.F.1.c.vii.

EPA regulations (CFR Part 40 Section 51.306) require that the LTS be reviewed in
seven areas. There was a discrepancy between EPA requirements and State
regulations regarding the seventh item to be assessed. The purpose of the regulatory
change is to bring Commission Regulation Number 3 into conformance with EPA
requirements.

Old language:

        (vii)   The progress achieved in developing the components of the strategy.

New language (changes underlined):

        (vii)   The need for BART to remedy existing impairment in an integral vista
                declared since plan approval. I.D. Adopted November 19, 1992

I.J.    Adopted November 19, 1992
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Common Provisions and Regulation Number 7

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis


                                                                                            403
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The EPA has identified portions of the State's Prevention of Significant Deterioration and
New Source Review (PSD and NSR) rules, which do not conform to the Federal rules.
The State rules must be at least as stringent as the Federal rules in order for the EPA to
approve the State Implementation Plans. In addition, the State must revise the rules to
include the addition of new requirements that were set forth in the 1990 Federal Clean
Air Act. The EPA has also identified additional non-reactive volatile organic compounds,
and a significant level for municipal waste combustor emissions. All of these revisions
must be made for EPA approval.

The 1992 State Legislature revised the Colorado Clean Air Act to include new definitions
and fee requirements. In addition, the revisions allow the Commission to make
necessary revisions to the State's PSD and NSR rules, as described.

Specific Authority

The specific authority for this regulation is contained in the Colorado Air Quality Control
Act, 1992 as amended. Section 25-7-103 sets forth definitions for use in implementing
the new Colorado Act. Section 25-7-105 (1)(A)(I) requires the Commission to adopt into
the State Implementation Plan all requirements of the federal act. Sections 25-7-
105(1)(c), 203, 204, 205, 206, 210 and 301 provide authority to adopt a PSD and NSR
program in conformance with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Section 25-7-105.1 sets
forth the Commission's authority regarding Federal enforceability. Section 25-7-106
(1)(c) provides authority for adopting regulations, which are applicable to entire state, or
only within specific areas or zones, or only to a particular pollutant. Section 25-7-114.5
sets forth time frames for the Division to review permit applications, and procedures for
owners and operators to demonstrate compliance with construction permits. Section 25-
7-114.7 sets forth fee requirements. Commission action in promulgating these revisions
is taken pursuant to Sections 25-7-105 through 25-7-109 and 25-7-114, C.R.S., as
amended.

Purpose

New Source Review Rules




                                                                                        404
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Regulation Number 3 contains the permit requirements for major sources (Prevention of
Significant Deterioration, PSD and New Source Review, NSR). The Common Provisions
Regulation contains definitions that are used in the permit requirements of Regulation
Number 3. The PSD and NSR requirements and definitions must be equivalent to the
Federal requirements. The EPA has identified the portions of Regulation Number 3 and
the Common Provisions, which do not conform to the Federal rules. On October 17,
1991, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3 and the Common
Provisions, to address some of the EPA's concerns. Additional concerns remained,
however, because some of them could not be addressed until the Colorado Clean Air
Act was revised. On May 27, 1992, the Governor signed Senate Bill 105, which revised
the Colorado Clean Air Act to allow the Commission to proceed with the remaining
necessary revisions to Regulation Number 3 and the Common Provisions. The new
Colorado Act is effective as of July 1, 1992.

The 1990 Federal Clean Air Act revisions set forth additional revisions, which must be
made to all State PSD and NSR rules.

The Commission has adopted the necessary revisions, which address the remaining
EPA concerns regarding the State's PSD and NSR rules. These revisions are required
to eliminate discrepancies between the State and Federal rules, and for approval of our
State Implementation Plan. The required revisions are as follows.

Regulation Number 3

       1.     The regulation previously allowed sources of fugitive emissions to be
              exempt from the NSR and PSD requirements. The Federal Act does not
              allow the exemptions. Several Sections throughout the regulation needed
              to be revised or eliminated:

              Section I.E. - Eliminate the reference to the definitions of major stationary
              source and major modification from the definition of fugitive dust;

              Section I.B.3.e. and f - Eliminate the references to fugitive dust from the
              definition of major source;




                                                                                        405
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

           Section IV.D.3.b.(i)(B) - Eliminate the fugitive dust exemption from the
           PSD rules;

           Section XI - Eliminate the fugitive dust exemption from increment
           consumption requirements.

     2.    Section I.B.2, Section (vii) of the regulation allowed sources, which
           switched from oil or gas to a coal-derived fuel (shale oil) to be exempt
           from the PSD and NSR requirements. This is not allowed under the
           Federal Act, therefore (vii) is removed from the definition of major
           modification.

     3.    The new Federal Act requires major sources in nonattainment areas
           obtain to offsets from sources that are also located in the same
           nonattainment area, unless a source outside of the area contributes to
           nonattainment in the area in which the major source is located. Section
           IV.D.2.a(iii) is revised to add this new requirement.

     4.    The Federal Act does not allow major sources located in a “clean portion”
           of a nonattainment area to be exempt from the NSR requirements. Section
           IV.D.2.c.(ii) is revised to eliminate the clean portion of a nonattainment
           area exemption.

     5.    Section IV.D.3.e. required minor sources which contribute to the
           exceedance of an ambient air standard in a non-designated area (not
           designated attainment or nonattainment) to apply best available control
           technology. This requirement was previously adopted to comply with the
           EPA's interim policy for the PM-10 ambient air quality standards. The
           provision applied until the EPA was able to formally designate areas as
           attainment or nonattainment for PM-10. Now that the EPA has designated
           areas, the PSD and NSR (nonattainment) rules apply and Section
           IV.D.3.e. has been removed.

     6.    The regulation previously stated that certain permit conditions had to be
           removed from the permit upon issuance of final approval. The conditions



                                                                                        406
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

            on a final permit were limited to the list of items required to obtain a
            permit. The Federal Act requires that permits must contain all conditions
            necessary to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements, and any
            conditions necessary to make limits on production rates, hours of
            operation, the potential to emit, etc. federally enforceable. The language
            that limits the enforceability of permit conditions after Final Approval is
            removed from Section IV.E.

      7.    The Federal Act does not allow automatic approval of permits if the State
            fails to meet processing deadlines. The language that provides for
            automatic approval of permits if processing deadlines are not met is
            removed from Section IV.F. Likewise, confidentiality determinations do not
            affect the time constraints in the regulation. Section VII is revised to reflect
            this.

      8.    The new Federal Act does not allow reductions of pollutants required to
            meet any Act requirements to be credited for use as offsets. Language is
            added to Section V.E.9 of the State's Emission Reduction Credit rules to
            clarify this requirement.

      9.    The new Federal Act no longer limits the boundaries of Class I areas to
            those that existed in 1977. Section VIII is revised to eliminate this
            restriction.

      10.   The Federal rules state that if innovative technology is used by a PSD
            source, they are only exempt from the BACT requirements, not all of the
            PSD requirements, and that the consent of governors of other affected
            states must be obtained. Section XIII previously exempted such source
            from all PSD requirements. The Section is revised to clarify this allowance.

Common Provisions Definitions:

      1.    The EPA has added visible emission standards to applicable emission
            limitations under the definition of Best Available Control Technology. The
            State's definition is likewise revised.



                                                                                          407
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       2.     Under the new Federal Act, Asbestos, Beryllium, Mercury, and Vinyl
              Chloride are now regulated under new hazardous pollutant requirements
              (Maximum Achievable Control Technology). These compounds are no
              longer subject to Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
              requirements (which would require Best Available Control). The definition
              of significant, which determines when a source is subject to PSD, is
              revised to omit these pollutants.

The Federal rules do not allow an exemption from PSD and NSR rules for right of ways,
pipelines, etc. The definition of stationary source is revised to delete this exemption.

Non-Reactive VOCs:

On March 18, 1991, the EPA added five halocarbon compounds and four classes of
perfluorocarbons to the list of organic compounds, which are negligibly reactive, and
thus exempt from regulation as Volatile Organic Compounds under Regulation Number
3, the Common Provisions, and Regulation Number 7. In addition, the EPA revised the
definition of Volatile Organic Compound.

The Non-Reactive Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) list, as amended by the EPA, is
incorporated into Regulation Number 3, Section IV.D.4, the Common Provisions
(definition of Net Emission Increase, paragraph h.), and Regulation Number 7, Section
II.B. The State is not allowed to take credit for controlling these compounds in our SIP.
In other words, sources cannot use reductions of emissions of these compounds to
offset VOC emissions, and we are not allowed to include emissions of these
compounds in our SIP inventory. The EPA has determined that these compounds do not
react in the atmosphere to produce ground level ozone.

The EPA also revised the definition of “Volatile Organic Compound” to make slight
clarifications. The definition in the Common Provisions and in Regulation Number 7,
Section II.A.1. is likewise revised.

Municipal Waste Combustor Emissions Significant Level:

On February 11, 1991, the EPA promulgated New Source Performance Standards for
Municipal Waste Combustors. In addition, the EPA promulgated “significant emission



                                                                                           408
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

levels” for municipal waste combustor emissions. These significant levels are used to
determine if PSD requirements apply to major sources.

The Commission revised the definition of “Significant” in the Common Provisions
Regulation, to add the emission level for municipal waste combustor emissions. This
addition is required in order to conform to the Federal PSD and NSR rules.

Senate Bill 92-105 Revisions

Senate Bill 105 revised the Colorado Clean Air Act. The new Colorado Act contains
some new and revised provisions which are relatively simple and straightforward, and
which could therefore be easily adopted into Regulation Number 3 and the Common
Provisions at this time. These particular revisions were adopted to facilitate transition
from the old Act to the new Act, and to eliminate confusion that could occur due to
differences between the new Act and the existing regulations. The proposed revisions
are as follows.

Regulation Number 3

       1.     Sections IV.B.3, 4 and 5 - The new Act gives the Division 60 days (instead
              of the previous 20 days) to determine if an application is complete. In
              addition, the Division has 12 months to complete the application process
              for PSD construction permit applications (previously limited to 135 days).

       2.     Section IV.C.1.c - Change the reference date for the definition of
              hazardous pollutant. A new definition has been adopted in the new Act.
              The definition includes the list of 189 chemicals from the Federal Act, and
              an additional list contained in the Colorado Act.

       3.     Section IV.H - Change the procedures for granting of final approval
              construction permits. Previously, the Division had only 30 days once a
              source commenced operation to inspect the source to determine that all
              permit conditions were being met. The source now has 180 days to
              demonstrate compliance. Also previously, the Division could allow a
              source additional time to come into compliance before Final Approval was
              issued. Now the Division must grant Final Approval or revoke the permit.



                                                                                        409
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     4.    Section VI. - The new Act sets forth new fee schedules for permits, annual
           fees, and APENS. The permit fees have changed from a schedule based
           on the type of facility to $50 per hour for all applications. The Division
           cannot exceed 30 hours in processing time unless the applicant is first
           notified that 30 hours will be exceeded. The annual fees are no longer
           based on the number of sources at, or the size and complexity of a facility.
           Instead annual fees are based on actual emissions. The APEN fee has
           changed from $60 to $75 for fiscal year 92.

Common Provisions

     1.    Section I.C - Incorporates the new Legislative Declaration of the new Act.
           The new declaration adds to the existing declaration that an accurate
           emission inventory is necessary for implementation of the air quality
           requirements.

     2.    Incorporates the new Acts definition of Air Pollutant. The definition is the
           same as previous except that precursors are now also considered” air
           pollutants.” Precursors can be emissions such as nitrogen and sulfur
           oxides, which can contribute to particulate matter emissions.

     3.    Revise definition of Emission Control Regulation. The new definition is the
           same, except such regulations can now include work practices and
           design, equipment, and operational standards. In addition, such
           regulations that apply to hazardous pollutants must be consistent with the
           new Act requirements concerning hazardous pollutants.

     4.    Revise definition of Federal Act to reference 1990. (Previously referenced
           1977.)

     5.    Revise the definition of Federally Enforceable to indicate that the Division
           has authority to issue permits to synthetic minor sources.

     6.    Revise definition of Hazardous Air Pollutant. The new definition includes
           the pollutants listed under the Federal and Colorado Acts.

     7.    Refers to Adverse Environmental Effect, therefore this definition is added.


                                                                                        410
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        8.    Add definition of Ozone Depleting Compound. The fee schedule requires
              the Division to charge fees for emissions of such compounds, therefore
              the definition is added. I.E.

I.K.    Adopted June 22, 1993
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 Regarding Construction Permits

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The Colorado Clean Air Act requires stationary sources to report their emissions, obtain
construction permits, and be subject to public notice before construction occurs. The
Commission has authority to exempt sources from these requirements, if the sources do
not have a significant adverse impact on air quality. Regulation Number 3 has been in
effect for approximately twenty years, and contains exemption lists for APEN and permit
requirements. Based on twenty years of experience, the Commission believes it is
appropriate at this time to revise the exemption lists to include additional sources, which
do not adversely affect air quality in Colorado. In addition, it is appropriate to revise the
public notice requirements to address the sources for which is public comment is most
likely to be received.

The 1992 State Legislature revised the Colorado Clean Air Act to include new provisions
concerning non-criteria pollutants. The Commission needs to address these provisions
and revise the APEN reporting, permitting, and public notice requirements regarding
these pollutants.

A technical revision must be made to the definition of “significant,” contained in the
Common Provisions, to address major sources in nonattainment areas, as required
under the Federal Act.

Specific Authority

The specific authority for this regulation is contained in the Colorado Air Quality Control
Act, 1992 as amended. The Legislative Declaration, Section 25-7-102, recognizes that


                                                                                          411
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

an accurate emission inventory is needed in order to adequately manage air resources
in Colorado. Section 25-7-105 (1)(A)(1) requires the Commission to adopt into the State
Implementation Plan all requirements of the federal act. Sections 25-7-105(l)(c), 203,
204, 205, 206, 210 and 301 provide authority to adopt a PSD and NSR program in
conformance with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Section 25-7-105(12) provides
authority to adopt regulations to implement the emission notice and construction permit
programs. Section 25- 7-106 (1)(c) provides authority for adopting regulations, which
are applicable to the entire state, or only within specific areas or zones, or only to a
particular pollutant. Section 25-7-109.3 provides authority for regulating non-criteria
pollutants. Section 25-7-111 provides authority for the Division to administer regulations
adopted by the Commission. Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority for requiring
APENS, and for allowing exemptions from the requirement. Section 25-7-114.2 provides
authority for requiring construction permits, and for allowing exemptions from the
requirement. Section 25-7-114.5 provides authority for requiring public notice of
construction permits. Commission action in promulgating these revisions is taken
pursuant to Sections 25-7-105 to -109 and 25-7-114, C.R.S., as amended.

Purpose

Definition of “Significant”

The Common Provisions Regulation contains definitions that are used in the Prevention
of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and New Source Review (nonattainment, NSR) permit
programs of Regulation Number 3. The PSD and NSR requirements and definitions
must be equivalent to the Federal requirements. The definition of significant lists
emission levels at which modifications at major sources become subject to the PSD and
NSR requirements. Currently, the language in the definition indicates that the emission
levels only trigger PSD requirements. The definition is changed to indicate that the
levels also apply to the NSR nonattainment rules.

APEN Requirements - General

This language is revised to clarify what emission estimates must be included in an
APEN (actual emissions for annual fee purposes, and requested amount for permit
limits). In addition, language is added to clarify that a source need not perform a stack


                                                                                           412
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

test for the sole purpose of providing an APEN emission estimate. Other acceptable
estimation methods are usually available for APEN purposes. In some instances, it is
possible that an emission factor may supply a more accurate estimate than mass
balance calculations, and vice versa. In such cases, a source may choose to use either
mass balance, or emission calculations. If the Division believes that estimates can be
better made using the method of these two that the source does not choose, the
Division may question that source regarding the choice. The emission estimate included
in an APEN is not required to be an exact calculation of emissions, but rather the
source's best estimate, to the extent practical, of emissions. As stated in the Legislative
Declaration of the Colorado Air Quality Control Act, the APEN information is to be used
to achieve the most accurate and complete inventory possible, and to provide for the
most accurate enforcement program achievable based upon that inventory.

The Colorado Clean Air Act states that APENs are valid for five years, unless a
significant change in emissions occurs. This provision is added to the regulation.

Language is added to clarify that each unit is considered to be a “source” for APEN
purposes, unless similar sources can be grouped together.

Emission calculations for purposes of determining if a de minimis emission level is
triggered will be based on actual uncontrolled emissions. Sources will not be allowed to
take credit for control devices in the de minimis calculation because the Commission
has no method of determining if the control equipment will be used, or used
continuously and properly.

The Commission believes there may be cases where the source demonstrates that it is
not feasible to estimate the control efficiency of a device for non-criteria pollutants. In
such instances, the Commission gives the Division discretion to allow the de minimis
level to be triggered based on actual, instead of uncontrolled actual, emissions. New
language is added regarding non-criteria pollutant APEN requirements.

Revised APEN Requirements

The Colorado Act requires revised APENs to be submitted whenever a “significant
change” in emissions occurs. The significant levels for criteria pollutants remain



                                                                                          413
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

unchanged from the previous regulation, except that a significant level has been added
for lead emissions. For non-criteria pollutants, the significant change level is set at 50%
or five (5) tons per year, whichever is less.

Sources should note that APENs must be submitted if the source begins to emit a
pollutant which was previously not included on an APEN. Also, the Commission may
add pollutants to the list of non-criteria reportable pollutants. When chemicals are
added, the Commission will determine the schedule for submitting new or revised
APENs to report the new pollutant emissions.

NOTE: Significant change criteria are used to report changes in emissions for inventory
purposes only. If a planned change in emissions requires a new permit, or modification
of an existing permit (violates an emission limit, triggers PSD or NSR), then an APEN
must be filed and the permit must be revised before the change at the facility occurs.

Revised APENs for emission updates must be submitted by April 30 of the following
year. The EPA requires states to update the emission inventory by July 1 of each year,
to include the previous year's emissions (Code of Federal Regulations, 40 CFR 51.321).
The Commission believes the April 30 date should give sources enough time to compile
their inventory, and will also give the Division enough time to update the system by July
1. Sources should plan ahead and have as much of their inventory completed as
possible before the end of the year. In this way, the source would then only need to add
December, or at worst information for the last couple of months of the year, to the data
in order to meet the April 30 deadline.

Revised APENs are required when a change in the type of control equipment being
used is made. This allows the Commission to ensure that the new control equipment will
meet the applicable requirements, and to verify that actual emissions have decreased or
increased due to the use of the new equipment. Oftentimes, stack tests are required to
ensure that control equipment meets applicable requirements. A change in the control
equipment can affect this compliance determination. Revised APENs will not be
required for routine maintenance, repair and replacements. These routine activities
should not affect the effectiveness of the equipment.




                                                                                        414
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Permit applications must include an APEN on which the owner or operator indicates
what production or emission level the source wishes to be permitted at. Any desire to
increase the permitted emission level requires the submittal of a revised APEN, so that
the Division can evaluate the change against the regulations before modifying the
permit.

Portable Facilities

Revised APENs are no longer required when a portable source changes location. The
Commission does not believe it is reasonable to charge the APEN filing fee each time a
source moves. Portable sources will still be required to notify the Division at least ten
(10) days before relocating. This allows the Division to be aware of a source's location if
any concerns regarding the source are raised by the public.

Emergency and Backup Generators

Electric utilities may use emergency or backup generators to ensure that blackouts do
not occur in the electrical grid. These units are usually operated instead of, or for short
periods in addition to, main utility boilers. Facilities that include the main boilers are
usually major sources, and therefore have a major source construction permit, or will in
the future have a major source-operating permit. Once the facility is covered under one
of these permits, the Commission sees no need for the owner or operator to submit
annual updates regarding the emissions from the emergency units.

Other emergency units are not located at the main unit facility, but are located
individually in the field. These units will most likely obtain a synthetic minor permit to
avoid major source permit requirements, since operation is usually intermittent. Once
such sources obtain a synthetic minor permit, the Commission again will not require the
source to submit annual emission updates.

APEN Requirements - Non-Criteria Pollutants

There are 363 non-criteria reportable pollutants. The Commission divided the pollutants
in two major groups: those that are required to be reported in 1993, and those that have
to be reported in 1994 and subsequent years. There are also two groups of chemicals
(Radionuclides and Polycyclic Organic Matter) whose reporting requirements were



                                                                                             415
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

postponed until such time as the Commission determines that they can be accurately
quantified and reported.

APEN Requirements - De Minimis Levels

All de minimis levels are based on uncontrolled actual emissions (except where the
control efficiency cannot be estimated), as discussed under General APEN
Requirements.

APENs are required of sources in attainment areas when the emissions of any criteria
pollutant from a source exceed two tons per year (except for lead).

Sources in nonattainment areas must file when emissions of any criteria pollutant
exceed one ton per year. Note that the pollutant being emitted above the de minimis
level does not have to be a nonattainment pollutant. Any pollutant triggers the one-ton
per year level, regardless of the pollutant's attainment designation.

Because the area is a growth area, and inversions occur in the area, a Grand Junction
group requested that APENs be filed when emissions of any criteria pollutant exceed
one ton per year. The Commission determined that hearings should be held in the
Grand Junction area, and that Grand Junction should pursue their own rules. Language
that would have treated Pueblo likewise is not included, due to requests from industries
in Pueblo, and the Pueblo County Health Department.

The de minimis level for lead in all areas is 100 pounds per year.

For non-criteria pollutants, the Commission assigned each pollutant to one of three
“bins” based on information concerning the health effects of the pollutant. The
Commission also developed a series of three scenarios for an emission point based on
the release height of the pollutant and the distance from the release point to the
property boundary. The resulting three by three grid as well as instructions on how to
apply it can be found in Appendix A. Note that future actions by EPA may affect the de
minimis reporting levels for certain chemicals that appear on the EPA list of 189 toxic
chemicals.

APEN Requirements - Exemption List




                                                                                      416
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Numerous new source categories have been added to the APEN exemption list. Each
category was examined for its impact on air quality in Colorado before being added to
the list. Each category that was added is believed to have a negligible impact on air
quality.

The source category exemptions override the de minimis levels. Sources that fit into the
category are exempt, even if emissions exceed the de minimis levels.

Each category will not be addressed individually in this statement; however, the
following categories deserve specific comment.

Fires and equipment used for cooking of food for human consumption: Not all cooking
equipment has been exempted in this category. The Commission has concerns
regarding equipment in which grease from the food being cooked comes into contact
with the flame of the equipment, thus leading to potential opacity and particulate matter
problems. This is especially of concern in PM-10 nonattainment areas. This exemption
applies only to noncommercial cooking and to food service establishments, such as
restaurants and cafeterias. The exemption does not apply to manufacturing facilities.

Fuel burning equipment: The design rate cutoff for fuel burning equipment has been
raised from 750,000 BTU/hour to 5 MMBTU/hour. The fuel use is still restricted to gas,
and does not include oil or coal, since the latter two fuels may result in significant sulfur
dioxide emissions. Fuel burning equipment which uses gaseous fuel and which is used
solely for building heat is exempt if the design rate is below 10 MMBTU/hour. The
Commission has determined that the emissions from the exempted unit, based on EPA
AP-42 emission factors, are negligible.

Chemical storage areas where chemicals are stored in closed containers...: This
exemption only applies to the storage of chemicals at qualifying facilities. The
exemption does not include facilities where chemicals are loaded into or out of, or
transferred between, storage containers. Bulk storage tanks would not qualify for this
exemption, since often the material is loaded and unloaded, and such tanks have vents
from which emissions occur due to breathing losses. See Sections II.D.1.n., II.D.1.ee.,
II.D.1., II.D.1.uu., II.D.1.ddd. and II.D.1.fff. for storage tank exemptions.




                                                                                          417
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission will require APENs only for pollutants that are defined as “criteria”
pollutants or “reportable non-criteria” pollutants (HAPs, CFCs, SARA 313). Any other
pollutants such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen, oxygen, do not require APEN
submittals.

Aerosol Can Usage: There may be instances where a source may exclusively use large
amounts of aerosol cans, or may use large amounts in addition to other processes. The
Commission expects that these instances will be rare. If the Division, a local agency, or
others discover such a source, and if the source emits amounts of pollutants, which are
believed not to be negligible, such concern can be brought before the Commission as a
request to require such source to file APENs and/or obtain a permit. (See discussion
under “Adding and Deleting Exemptions”)

Odorous emission sources: This exemption only applies to odor emissions, and not to
any other emissions of criteria or non-criteria pollutants, which may be associated with
the odor. This exemption does not absolve any source from the requirements of
Regulation Number 2 (regarding odor limits). If a source emits any pollutant that is
above an APEN de minimis level, the source must file an APEN, regardless of odor.

Portable 5 mm btu/hour engines: One party requested that these sources be exempt
from APEN and permit requirements. The Commission has determined that sufficient
evidence is not available to indicate that emissions from these sources have a negligible
impact on air quality in Colorado, therefore they are not exempt until such evidence is
forthcoming.

Laboratory equipment and pilot plants: The subcommittee for these rule revisions held
extensive discussions regarding exemptions for laboratory equipment and pilot plant
activities. More work is needed to define these activities, determine if the emissions are
negligible, and if such activities should be exempt from APENS, permits, or both. The
Commission recommends that subcommittee discussion of this issue continue, and that
it be addressed when Regulation Number 3 is revised to include the Title V operating
permit rules (currently scheduled to occur in July of 1993).

Adding and Deleting Exemptions




                                                                                       418
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission has delegated authority to the Division for adding source categories
and activities to the APEN and permit exemption lists. If any person believes that a
source category or activity should be removed from the exemption lists, because it is
discovered that emissions have an impact on air quality or health that is not negligible,
such person may at any time go before the Commission to request that such source
category or activity be required to file APENs and/or obtain permits.

Oil and Gas Exploration Activities

Oil and gas exploration activities are activities for which it is difficult for the owner or
operator to estimate what emission equipment will be required, and therefore what
emissions will occur, until the exploration activities are already underway, and near
completion. For this reason, the Commission has extended a temporary exemption from
APEN and permit requirements for such activities. Before commencing exploration
activities, the source must notify the Division. In this way, the Division is aware of the
activities and will be able to address any concerns that are raised by the public. Once
an owner or operator has determined that an oil or gas well will be produced, and has
filed well completion information, the owner or operator must file an APEN and a permit
application within 30 days of that completion filing.

The permit application must indicate what regulations are applicable to the source, and
how compliance will occur, until the construction permit is issued. This helps the source
and the Division to ensure that air pollution regulations are being met. If the well will not
be produced, the source must notify the Division so that the Division does not expend
resources following up on unproduced wells.

APEN Reporting Deferrals for Source Categories

Due to ongoing studies aimed at quantifying their emissions of non-criteria pollutants,
the Commission has deferred APEN reporting requirements for five source categories
until six (6) months after the studies have been completed or December 31, 1994,
whichever is earlier. The categories are industrial boilers, municipal wastewater
treatment plants, publicly owned water treatment plants, municipal power generators of
less than ten (10) megawatts, which operate for 250 hours or less per year, and natural
gas glycol dehydration units. The EPA is conducting studies regarding the first four


                                                                                               419
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

categories. The oil and gas industry is conducting studies to quantify emissions from
dehydration units. This study is currently underway and is expected to be completed in
the near future.

In addition, sources which are not undergoing study, but which believe sufficient
information is not available for estimating their non-criteria pollutant emissions, may
petition the Division for deferral of those emissions until sufficient information is
available.

HAP Permit Requirements

Of the 363 non-criteria pollutants/compounds, 330 are defined as hazardous air
pollutants (HAPs). Sources emitting HAPs are required to obtain permits if they are
subject to Colorado MACT or GACT or the Federal Title III or Title V provisions.

Synthetic Minor HAP Sources

Some parties to the hearing requested that sources which emit HAPs be allowed to
avoid future Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) and operating permit
requirements by obtaining “synthetic minor” permits. These permits would contain
federally enforceable limits, which would keep emissions below the levels, which trigger
the MACT and operating permit requirements. The Colorado Act appears to restrict
synthetic minor permits to criteria pollutants only. The subcommittee recommended that
this issue be deferred to the HAP subcommittee, which will meet in the near future to
address Colorado MACT and other HAP issues. Synthetic minor permits for HAP
sources are therefore not addressed in this revision.

Permit Transfer of Ownership

The party to which a permit is issued, whose name is included on the permit, is legally
responsible for ensuring that all conditions and terms in the permit are met. The permit
must contain the correct legal name, reflecting the correct responsible party, in case an
enforcement action needs to be taken. In some cases, the legal name of a company
may change, while no modifications are made to the equipment. In such cases, the
source need only file a single APEN indicating the change. In all cases, the Division
must have on file an application and APEN form with the correct name of the



                                                                                          420
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

responsible party, and including the signature of the person legally responsible for the
information.

Permit Requirements - De Minimis Levels

Permit de minimis levels for criteria pollutants have been increased. Levels differ based
on the attainment status of the area. As for the APEN de minimis levels, the
nonattainment area levels are triggered by any pollutant, not just the nonattainment
pollutants.

Language, which would have set permit levels for the Grand Junction area lower than
the levels for attainment areas, was not adopted. See discussion under APEN de
minimis levels.

Emissions are compared against the de minimis levels by adding emissions from all
sources at the facility that are required to file and APEN. In some cases, a source may
initially be below the de minimis levels, but as new units are added to the facility, the de
minimis level is eventually exceeded. At such time that addition of new units causes the
permit de minimis level to be exceeded, the source must file a permit application for all
units at the facility.

Permit de minimis levels for sources of HAPs will be set at the time that the MACT or
GACT for that source category is determined.

Permit Requirements - Exemption List

A few new source categories have been added to the permit exemption list. As for
APENs, the source category exemptions override the de minimis levels.

Domestic wastewater treatment works: This exemption applies only to treatment
facilities which handle wastewater strictly from domestic homes, or wastewater that is
similar in nature. It does not include facilities that treat wastewater from municipalities or
other sources. The facility may be publicly or privately owned. Wastewater other than
domestic wastewater, including municipal wastewater, may contain contaminants from
industry and other sources which would result in emissions which are much more
significant than the emissions from domestic wastewater.




                                                                                          421
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Fuel burning equipment: Fuel burning equipment with a design rate less than 10
MMBTU/hour, using natural gas as a fuel, are exempt from permit requirements
because this is the rate at which the New Source Performance Standard for small
boilers is applicable (Regulation Number 6).

Surface Mining Activities: 70,000 tons per year is the production rate at which the Mine
Land Reclamation Bureau exempts mining operations from MLRB permit requirements.
Oftentimes, these small operations are only temporary, in order to provide material for
highway construction projects. The source has often ceased operation before an Air
Pollution Control inspector can visit the source to determine compliance. Crushers,
screens and other processing equipment are not exempt because these activities may
be subject to specific air quality emission limit regulations.

Applicable Requirements Override APEN and Permit Exemptions

To ensure that sources comply with all applicable air quality regulations, an APEN or
permit exemption may not be used if taking the exemption would allow a source to avoid
any air quality regulation requirements. This provision applies to the source category
exemptions and to the de minimis level exemptions. For example, a source may not
claim that it is exempt from permit requirements because it has numerous sources,
which are below a de minimis level, if the potential emissions from those sources would
exceed the PSD major source limit of 100 or 250 tons per year. In such a case, the
source would be required to apply for a PSD permit, or must obtain a permit to limit its
potential to emit. In order to limit potential to emit, the permit must contain federally
enforceable conditions, which limit the physical or operational capacity of the source so
that emissions are below the 100 or 250 ton per year level.

Sources, which are subject only to the opacity or general fuel burning and
manufacturing requirements of Regulation Number 1, may take any applicable
exemption. Likewise, sources, which are subject to the general RACT requirements (but
not the specific RACT requirements) of Regulation Number 7, and sources, which are
subject to the current Regulation Number 8 provisions, may take any applicable
exemptions (i.e., they are exempt if their emissions are below de minimis levels). RACT
for sources that would qualify for the APEN exemptions is usually “no control.”


                                                                                            422
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Similarly, sources which are subject only to Regulation Number 1 opacity, general fuel
burning, and general manufacturing requirements are exempt from permit requirements.
Sources which are subject to Regulation 7, but which must adopt only work practice
standards, are exempt from permit requirements if their emissions fall below the de
minimis level (two tons per year of VOC). Sources, which are subject to State-only
requirements of Regulation Number 8, are exempt from permit requirements.

Regulation Number 1, 7 and 8 sources, which take APEN or permit exemptions must
still meet the regulation requirements, even though an APEN or permit is not required.
The provisions that would apply to these sources are straightforward and can therefore
be easily enforced by the Commission through the regulation, without requiring a permit.

Public Notice Requirements

The criteria pollutant emission level at which a source in an attainment area must go to
public notice has been increased from 25 to 50 tons per year (except for lead). In
nonattainment areas, the level remains at 25 tons per year. Lead sources are required
to go to public notice when the emissions exceed 200 pounds per year. The
Commission has determined that raising these levels will not impact the number of
public comments the Division receives. Any source requiring a permit for HAPs is
required to go to public notice.

Note that Section I IV.C.3 provides that the Division may require any source to be
subject to public comment, if it is determined that such source warrants public comment.
The EPA requires that all sources subject to PSD or NSR go to public comment. In
addition, in order to make limits on potential to emit federally enforceable, permits
containing such limits must go to public notice. At this time, the Commission will use this
Section to ensure the EPA requirements are met. Language will be added to clarify
these requirements when the next revision to Regulation Number 3 occurs (currently
scheduled to occur in July of 1993).

I.L.   Adopted July 15, 1993
Revisions to Regulation Number 3




                                                                                        423
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The 1990 Amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act requires states to implement an
operating permit program. This program is applicable to certain sources, and requires
the sources to obtain detailed permits, which are to be renewed every five years.

Failure of a state to implement an operating permit program will result in EPA sanctions,
such as loss of highway funds and increased offset requirements for sources wishing to
locate in Colorado nonattainment areas. In addition, the EPA may implement the
operating permit program if a state fails to implement a program.

The existing construction permit program will continue to exist, however changes have
been made to the program so that the two permit programs (construction and operating)
complement each other.

Specific Authority

The specific authority for this regulation is contained in the Colorado Air Quality Control
Act, 1992 as amended. Section 25-7-105(1)(A)(I) requires the Commission to adopt into
the State Implementation Plan all requirements of the federal act. Sections 25-7-105(12)
provide authority to implement the operating permit provisions of Title V of the Federal
Act. Section 25-7-105.1 sets forth federal enforceability provisions. Section 25-7-106(6)
provides authority for monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, Section
25-7- 109.3 provides authority for regulating hazardous air pollutants (HAPs). Section
25-7-111 provides authority for the Division to administer regulations adopted by the
Commission. Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority for requiring APENS, and for
allowing exemptions from the requirement. Sections 25-7-114.2 through 114.5 set forth
construction and operating permit requirements, and application and public participation
requirements. Commission action in promulgating these revisions is taken pursuant to
Sections 25-7-105 to -109 and 25- 7-114, C.R.S., as amended.

Purpose



                                                                                        424
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

NOTE: Subcommittee documents, which discuss the issues and decisions regarding
this regulation in detail, and provide fact sheets for various provisions, are available at
the Division and Commission offices.

I.     Operating Permit Program:

A.     Who is subject to the Operating Permit Program?

1.     Definition of Air Pollutant

Sources with potential to emit* 100 tons per year of any air pollutant must obtain an
operating permit (these sources are referred to as 'major sources”). For purposes of the
operating permit program, air pollutant means any pollutant for which an ambient air
quality standard has been set (and their precursors), any pollutant which is regulated
under the New Source Performance Standard regulations (NSPS, Regulation Number
6), any Class I or Class II ozone depleting compound, and any hazardous air pollutant
(all HAPs listed in either the Federal or Colorado Acts).

The Commission has determined that it is not appropriate to use the Colorado Act
definition of air pollutant for operating permit purposes. The Act defines air pollutant as
being any substance emitted to the ambient air, except for water vapor. Since many
substances occur naturally in ambient air, and others will never be subject to any air
regulations, operating permits are not needed for emissions of such pollutants.

Major sources of any air pollutant as defined for operating permit purposes must obtain
an operating permit, even if no specific standard has been set for the particular air
pollutant (see further discussion under “regulated pollutant,” below).

2.     Major HAP Sources

Sources, which have potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of a single HAP or 25
tons per year or more of a combination of HAPs, are considered” major sources,” and
must obtain an operating permit, even if no standard for the HAP has yet been set.

Major sources of Colorado HAPs must obtain an operating permit. Permit conditions
related to Colorado HAPs will be treated as state only conditions (see further discussion
below).



                                                                                         425
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

*See definition of potential to emit, Part A of this regulation. Potential emissions are
calculated assuming the source operates continuously, at full design rate, using no
pollution control equipment. See additional information and details in subcommittee
papers (Group D, Synthetic Minors Issue Paper and Fact Sheet).

3.     Fugitive Emissions

Fugitive emissions must be included when determining if a source is major for HAPS.
Fugitive emissions must be included when using the 100-ton per year threshold (to
determine if the source is major) if the source is listed, or if the source and pollutant is
subject to any NSPS or Title III regulation.

Fugitive emissions must be included as required for the Prevention of Significant
Deterioration (PSD) and nonattainment new source review (NSR) programs.

The Commission has not included language, which exempts fugitive dust sources from
the major source definitions at this time. Further investigation is occurring regarding
HAP emissions from such sources, and discussions with EPA will continue to determine
how to treat such sources. Once these activities are completed, the Commission will
consider this issue.

4.     Applicability Determinations

Sources are ultimately responsible for determining if they are subject to operating permit
requirements. The Small Business Assistance Program is available to assist small
businesses in understanding the requirements, in determining applicability, and in
complying with the requirements. No “applicability determinations” are available for
other sources. The Division must recover the cost of implementing the operating permit
program. Time spent reviewing informal requests for applicability determinations would
not be recovered. Sources who believe they are subject to the operating permit program
should file an application. During the sixty-day completeness determination, if the
Division discovers that the source is not subject to the operating permit requirements,
the source will be notified. In addition, if the source has obtained a construction permit,
it will most likely have been determined then if an operating permit is required. Also,




                                                                                           426
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

preapplication meetings with the Division are available to sources. All time spent by the
Division in reviewing applications will be charged to the source.

5.     Synthetic Minor Sources

Existing sources are subject to the operating permit requirements. Some existing
sources may want to obtain federally enforceable limits on their production rates or
hours of operation, or emission limits in order to avoid the operating permit
requirements (known as synthetic minor sources because such limits are needed to
make them minor). Construction permits can be obtained to keep emissions below the
major source thresholds. Some existing sources do not have construction permits.
Others may have construction permits, which do not currently limit emissions below the
major source thresholds. Sources may avoid the operating permit requirements by
obtaining an emission-limiting construction permit before they are required to apply for
operating permits. Sources must obtain a synthetic minor construction permit before the
November 1994 due date, or before one year after EPA program approval, whichever
applies (see discussion below). If a synthetic minor permit is not obtained before the
applicable date, an operating permit application must be submitted.

The Division will review all existing construction permits over a period of time as
resources allow, to determine if the existing permits are federally enforceable. In the
interim, the Division will assume that all previously issued construction permits are
federally enforceable.

New sources may likewise obtain synthetic minor construction permits before they
construct in order to avoid the operating permit requirements. All synthetic minor permits
must go to public notice in order to be federally enforceable (see discussion below).

“Once in always in” does not apply to the operating permit program (however it does
apply to the PSD program). If a major source has an operating permit and reduces its
emissions below major source levels, the source may apply for a synthetic minor permit
in order to cease being subject to operating permit requirements.

6.     Minor Source Exemption




                                                                                          427
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The EPA allows states to give minor sources subject to existing New Source
Performance Standards (NSPS) a five-year deferral from the operating permit
requirements. Within five years of the approval of any State program, the EPA will
determine if the deferral should be extended further, or if some or all minor sources
should be permanently exempt from operating permit requirements. If the EPA first
approves any State program in November of 1994, this means that minor sources may
be exempt until November of 1999. The EPA will decide if minor sources subject to new
MACT or GACT (Maximum or Generally Available Control Technology) standards and
NSPS should be exempt on a case-by-case basis as the new rules are promulgated.

The Commission has exempted existing minor NSPS sources from the operating permit
program at this time. New NSPS and MACT standards will be adopted by the
Commission as EPA promulgates them, and at such time, the Commission shall
determine operating permit applicability.

7.     Voluntary Operating Permits

Any source which is not required to obtain an operating permit (minor sources) can
request an operating permit, if desired. An operating permit allows minor sources to
obtain the operational flexibility and permit shield provisions allowed in the operating
permit program (note, however, that most of the operational flexibility provisions are
available under the construction permit program, see discussion under construction
permit program Section). The operating permit will replace the source's construction
permit. A construction permit is a SIP requirement, and conditions in the construction
permit are federally enforceable (except for state only conditions). All conditions in the
operating permit must therefore be federally enforceable. Operating permits, which are
issued to sources voluntarily applying, will be subject to all of the operating permit
procedural requirements (public notice, EPA review, etc.).

B.     When is operating permit applications due?

1.     Existing Sources

The federal act allows states to phase in processing of existing source applications over
a three-year period. One third of the applications must be acted upon within each year



                                                                                           428
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

after EPA approves the state's program. The program will be submitted to the EPA by
November 15, 1993. The EPA has one year to approve the program, therefore the
Division must begin processing applications beginning November 15, 1994.

The Commission has directed the Division to divide the existing sources into thirds. One
third of the existing sources must submit their operating permit applications by
November 15, 1994. The Division will use the new APEN information to identify the first
third, and will notify the first third by November 15, 1993. The first third will consist of the
least complex sources. The least complex sources should find it easier to prepare their
operating permit applications, and the Division should find it easier to process these
applications first. The Division will be able to identify any problems with the review
procedures, etc. during the first year.

NOTE: The Division cannot issue an operating permit until the EPA has approved the
program and is thus ready to begin receiving permits for review. The Division will
therefore “hold” applications processed during the first year until the EPA is ready to
accept them for review. Once EPA has reviewed and approved the permits, the permits
can be issued.

The remaining existing source applications will be due one year after the EPA approves
the state's program. The Division will provide notice of the EPA approval date and
sources are responsible for submitting their applications on time.

The Division must determine if each application is complete within 60 days of receipt.
This may not be possible during the three-year phase in, as many applications will be
received at once. The Division will make its best effort to make the completeness
determination for all permits within 60 days. If the Division fails to do this, the application
shield applies, and the Division cannot enforce against the source for failure to have a
complete application on file. The Federal rule provides, however, that the Division has
the authority to ask for additional information at any time during the process, and to set
a reasonable date by which the information must be submitted. If the source fails to
submit the additional information by the due date, the application shields no longer
applies. The Commission is confident that under these provisions sources and the




                                                                                            429
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Division can effectively work together to ensure that applications are processed in a
timely fashion.

2.     New Sources and Relationship to the Construction Permit Program

New sources that wish to locate in Colorado must obtain a construction permit, or a
combined construction/operating permit before commencing construction. The source
may choose to obtain a construction permit or a combined permit.

Sources that choose to obtain a construction permit must apply for a construction permit
according to the provisions of Part B of this regulation. Once a construction permit is
obtained, the source can commence construction and begin operating. Within 180 days
of commencing operation the source must undergo a “final approval” inspection to
demonstrate that all permit conditions are being met. Within 12 months of commencing
operation, the source must apply for its operating permit. Once a complete operating
permit application is submitted, the source can continue to operate under its
construction permit until it receives its operating permit.

Sources that choose to obtain a combined construction/operating permit must apply for
such permit before commencing construction. The application for a combined permit
must contain all of the required information for an operating permit. The Division will
issue the permit, which will essentially be an operating permit. The source can then
commence construction and operation. Within 180 days of commencing operation, the
source must demonstrate compliance with all permit conditions (this 180-day
requirement will be a permit condition, and the appropriate hourly processing fee will be
charged for the associated inspection). The source continues to operate under its
operating permit and no further action is required until permit renewal.

The procedures for obtaining construction permits are not as intense as those required
to obtain an operating permit. More extensive public and EPA participation is required in
the operating permit process. In addition, more information and requirements must be
incorporated into an operating permit than into a construction permit. Nevertheless, it
may be advantageous for sources to combine the processing of these two types of
permits in order to avoid duplication of effort.




                                                                                          430
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The advantage of a combined permit is that an additional application step is avoided.
Sources should note, however, that an operating permit application requires more
specific information regarding compliance monitoring, recordkeeping, etc., than a
construction permit application. Sources that choose to obtain an operating permit
before construction must be able to supply all of the required information for a complete
operating permit application.

Sources that choose to obtain an operating permit before construction will be subject to
the operating permit timeframes for processing instead of the shorter construction
permit timeframes. Construction permit applications can take up to 90, 135, or 365
days, depending on type and size of source. Operating permit applications can take up
to 540 days. Construction permits require public notice and opportunity for comment
only for sources emitting more than 25 or 50 tons/year of any criteria pollutant, and
requires opportunity for public hearing for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
sources only. The operating permit program requires public notice and opportunity for
hearing for all sources. If the programs are not combined, a source may have to
undergo public notice twice, once under each process. PSD sources may have to
undergo public hearings twice. The EPA only reviews certain applications and draft
permits under the construction permit program, and usually does so during the public
comment period. The EPA is allowed 45 days to review draft operating permits near the
end of the process, and then the Division has 90 days to revise the permit, if necessary.

Sources should consider carefully their confidence in their ability to operate as expected
or planned after construction before choosing to obtain a combined permit.

3.     Application Shield

Once a source has submitted a complete operating permit application the source is
protected from enforcement action for operating without an operating permit, and can
continue to operate until the operating permit is issued.

Sources that submit an application for a combined permit may not construct the source
until they receive their combined permit.

C.     What must be addressed in operating permit applications and permits?



                                                                                        431
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

1.     Configuration and Grouping of Sources

Total emissions at an entire site (including fugitive emissions at listed and HAP sources)
must be considered to determine if a source is subject to the operating permit
requirements. Once a source is subject, however, the owner or operator may choose
how many operating permits to obtain for the source. A single permit may be issued for
the entire source, or individual permits may be issued for individual units, buildings,
processes, etc. For example, research and development activities may be permitted
separately from the rest of a facility, in order to take full advantage of the operational
flexibility provisions for constantly changing research and development activities. In
addition, portions of a source could be covered under general permits. See discussions
below under operational flexibility and general permits.

The configuration for operating permits may, but is not required to, conform to the way
in which a source chooses to file APENS. For example, a source may file separate
APENs for all of the units at its facility, but a single operating permit can be obtained.
Similarly, a source may file grouped APENs for similar units at its facility, and the
operating permit could contain a general statement that the types of units exist at the
facility, and could then state what the applicable requirement and associated monitoring,
recordkeeping and reporting requirements are for that group of sources. The permit
does not have to list the requirements separately, and the monitoring, recordkeeping
and reporting requirements can be tailored to meet the needs of the source and the
Division for that group of sources. SPECIFIC EXAMPLE: Numerous degreasers are
located throughout a facility, which is located in the ozone nonattainment area (Metro-
Denver). A grouped APEN is filed for all of the degreasers. Since Regulation Number 7
applies to the degreasers, they must be addressed in the operating permit. The
operating permit choices are: 1) obtain an operating permit for the degreasers only,
separate from the rest of the facility; 2) obtain a single permit for the whole facility, and
include a general statement/applicable requirement condition as described for the
degreasers; 3) obtain more than one operating permit for the facility, placing the
degreasers in whatever permit(s) the owner or operator chooses. The Commission
believes substantial flexibility is available for issuing operating permits that the source
can most efficiently deal with, while still meeting the Clean Air Act requirements.


                                                                                             432
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

2.     “Regulated Pollutants”

Once subject to operating permit requirements, a major source must include all
applicable requirements and emission units in their application and must address each
“regulated pollutant” associated with the source (except for insignificant activities, see
below).

The definition of regulated pollutant is to be used strictly for determining what must be
addressed in an operating permit once a source is required to obtain the permit. The
definition of regulated pollutant has nothing to do with the definition of major source.
(See discussion regarding the definition of air pollutant).

Pollutants to be addressed in the application include each pollutant for which an
ambient standard has been set (and precursors to such standards, such as volatile
organic compounds), ozone depleting chemicals (CFCs), any pollutant subject to a
standard under regulation Number 6, and any pollutant subject to a standard under the
HAPs requirements (including Colorado HAPs).

“Regulated HAPs”

Note that a HAP must be subject to a standard before the applicant is required to
address it in the permit application. Once the EPA adopts a MACT standard for a
particular HAP, all sources, even those not subject to the particular MACT standard, and
even those not in the source category, must address that HAP in applications. In cases
where the Commission or Division determines MACT on a case-by-case basis because
the EPA has not, the HAP becomes regulated only for the particular source subject to
the case-by-case standard. Once the EPA promulgates the list of 112(r) (accidental
release) pollutants, those pollutants will be considered to be “regulated” for all sources.

Fees

The definition of regulated pollutant contained in Part A of this regulation is not used for
fee purposes. The Colorado Act specifically sets forth which pollutants are to be
assessed fees, and the fee pollutants are set forth in Section VI of Part A. A pollutant
does not need to be subject to a standard before the Commission can assess fees.

3.     Insignificant Activities


                                                                                           433
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Once subject to operating permit requirements, a major source must include all
applicable requirements and emission units in their application and must address each
“regulated pollutant” associated with the source except for activities, which the
Commission has determined are “insignificant.” This regulation sets forth to what extent
each activity or piece of equipment at a facility needs to be fully described and included
in an operating permit.

The Commission has tailored the insignificant list after the Air Pollution Emission Notice
(APEN) and construction permit exemptions, to promote consistency and reduce
confusion. The lists are repeated in Part C of the regulation, for convenience. The
activities and sources listed in the APEN and construction permit exemption Sections
are considered to be insignificant activities, with two exceptions. The lower APEN
emission de minimis levels are used instead of the higher construction permit de
minimis levels for insignificant activity purposes. Since the permit de minimis levels
apply to the facility, the Commission does not believe it is appropriate to use the permit
levels. The APEN 5 MMBTU per hour boiler design rate is controlling, rather than the
higher 10 MMBTU per hour permit boiler exemption. All boilers with design rates greater
than 5 MMBTU per hour must be addressed in the application and operating permit.

Exemptions based on emissions, size or production rate must still be listed in the
permit. Enough information must be submitted in the application just to identify the
equipment as qualifying for an exemption. An asterisk appears next to each activity
listed in Part C, which must be listed in the application.

Applications do not have to list activities that are exempted based on category.

Applications cannot omit information needed to determine the applicability of, or to
impose any applicable requirements on a source. In addition, the exemptions cannot
interfere with fee determinations. Since the mechanism used to assess fees is the
APEN and not operating permits, this should not pose a problem for purposes of
insignificant activities.

The Commission has added APEN exemptions for research and development and
laboratory activities. The exemptions apply to small research and development facilities,
and to lab activities that the Commission has determined have a negligible impact on air


                                                                                         434
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

quality in Colorado. Owners and operators of research and development facilities that
are subject to APEN reporting are expected to report emissions from samples received
from clients for evaluation, but only to the extent, the information is available. The
Commission believes that facilities that accept material for evaluation should have some
responsibility and knowledge regarding what is being accepted.

Research and development facilities may continually change the types of projects under
investigation, therefore the control efficiency of equipment may not always be known.
The Commission has determined that research and development facilities may base
APEN reporting thresholds on actual instead of uncontrolled actual emissions. In
addition, since owners and operators of such facilities do not always know in advance
what projects will be undertaken, the Commission has allowed such sources to report
emissions after the fact, in annual APEN updates to the inventory.

Research and development activities are prime candidates for the types of operational
flexibility allowed in this regulation (see discussion below). The Commission encourages
research and development activities to use the operational flexibility provisions.

Some of the activities were described in the Statement of Basis and Purpose for the
Commission's May 1993 Regulation Number 3 hearing. Parties to this hearing have
asked for clarification regarding some of the provisions.

The emission levels for triggering APEN reporting requirements are based on
uncontrolled actual emissions. The Commission recognizes that in some cases,
“uncontrolled” emissions are not easily defined. For example, the uncontrolled
emissions from a degreaser may be subject to interpretation. The emissions from this
type of operation depend on how often it is used and how fast objects are cleaned in the
unit. Uncontrolled emissions could possibly mean that a person is standing at the
degreaser using the machine continually, and as rapidly as is humanly possible. The
Commission recognizes that calculation of emissions for this and similar operations
involves some judgment, and will take into consideration reasonable assumptions used
in determining uncontrolled emissions.




                                                                                         435
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The exemption for land development (less than 25 acres in size and 6 months in
duration) applies to all land clearing activities, such as preparation of land for housing
development, or preparation of land for oil and gas activities to occur.

As stated, insignificant activity exemptions cannot be used if it, would result in an
applicable requirement being avoided. The EPA requires all applicable requirements to
be addressed in operating permits. Similarly, APEN and construction permit exemptions
cannot be taken if an applicable requirement would be avoided. The Commission has
given certain sources an exemption from the applicable requirement provisions, for
APEN and construction permit purposes. For example, a source that is subject to
Regulation Number 7, but not to a specific source category requirement of regulation
Number 7 (i.e. the source is subject only to a case by case RACT determination), may
take the APEN exemption based on the 1 ton per year de minimis level. The
Commission has determined that RACT for such small sources is usually no control. For
construction permits, a source may take an exemption if it is subject solely to a work
practice standard of Regulation Number 7.

For example, degreasers used in the ozone nonattainment area (Metro-Denver) are
subject to a specific Section of Regulation Number 7, which requires covers and proper
operation. Degreasers in the nonattainment area are subject to a specific Section of the
regulation, therefore they must file APENs, however since the Section only requires
work practice standards, no permit is required if the emissions are below the permit de
minimis levels. It should be noted that since an applicable requirement exists, the
degreaser and associated work practices must be addressed in the operating permit.
Degreasers in the rest of the State are exempt from APEN and permit requirements if
they are below the de minimis levels. Note that the EPA is required to set Maximum
Achievable Control Technology (MACT) limits for degreasers in 1994. When the
Commission adopts the MACT standards for degreasers, all degreasers subject to the
MACT standard will be required to file APENs and obtain permits.

4.     Inapplicability Determinations

Operating permits must list all applicable requirements and must state how continuous
compliance with the requirements will be demonstrated. The source is provided with


                                                                                         436
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

protection from enforcement as long as each permit condition and compliance
requirement is met (known as the permit shield). The source may wish to obtain
enforcement protection for regulations, which do not apply. In such cases, the
application must identify which regulations do not apply to the source. These regulations
will then be identified in the permit, and the permit shield will apply.

This protects the source in the event that a mistake is made and the regulation really
does apply to the source. The source is protected from enforcement action until the
permit can be reopened and the correct requirements inserted.

5.     Application Form and Checklist

Operating permit applications must contain a lot of complex information, including
identification of all applicable (and inapplicable, if the permit shield is to apply)
requirements. This can be a daunting task for the applicant. The Commission has
directed the Division to develop checklists for use by the applicant. One checklist will
identify all data that must be included in an application. Another checklist will identify all
air regulations. The applicant can use the latter checklist to identify which regulations
apply to their source, and which don't.

The State must submit an application form to the EPA along with the operating permit
regulations. The Commission has directed the Division to develop an application form,
taking into account suggestions and comments from the public.

6.     SIP Equivalency

The Commission has determined that it is appropriate to allow sources to set forth
procedures in their permit that will show that a SIP limit is being met through methods
that are equivalent to, but do not exactly follow, procedures set forth in the SIP.

For example, suppose a source is required to meet a volatile organic (VOC) compound
limit by using a coating that does not contain more than a certain amount of VOC. The
source could propose to meet the limit by some other means than using such a coating.
Their application would set forth quantifiable, replicable, accountable procedures that
would show that they could still meet the limit even though they would not be using the
required coatings. Such procedure could consist of using control equipment, or using a



                                                                                           437
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

combination of complying and non-complying coatings for which the average emissions
would meet the VOC limit. Monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting procedures would
be set forth in the permit. The procedures must be sufficient to show continuous
compliance with the underlying applicable requirement.

This procedure allows sources to show compliance through alternative methods without
having to go through the Commission and the EPA for a case-by-case SIP revision. The
EPA would review the process during its 45-day review period. The public would have
opportunity for comment and hearing.

NOTE: This procedure overrides the requirement in Regulation Number 7, which states
that all such alternatives will undergo a case-by-case SIP revision.

7.     112(r) (Accidental Release) Requirements

Operating permits must address any requirements established under Title III (hazardous
air pollutants) of the Federal Act, except that the accidental release plans required
under Section 112(r) do not have to be incorporated into the permit. The permit must
merely state that the source is required to submit a plan to the appropriate entity. The
Commission can take enforcement action against a source for failure to submit a plan.
Enforcement action cannot be taken for failure of the source to meet any of the
requirements contained in the plan.

8.     Compliance Monitoring

Operating permits must contain monitoring sufficient to demonstrate compliance with
the applicable requirements. Methods and procedures may be set forth in the applicable
requirements. If methods and procedures in the applicable requirement are insufficient
to demonstrate compliance, the operating permit must “fill the gap” by specifying
appropriate methods. Compliance methods may be as simple as recordkeeping, or may
require continuous monitoring equipment. The source must state in their application
how they will demonstrate compliance. The Division reviews this proposal and agrees
with it or recommends something else. The Common Provisions provides the Division
with the authority to require monitors. The Division has used, and will continue to use,
best engineering judgment to determine when monitors are necessary and feasible. The



                                                                                        438
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission has determined that in some instances it may be appropriate to require
continuous emission monitors, even in cases where the applicable requirement does
not specify monitors, and that sufficient opportunity for discussion and appeal are
available to the source, therefore monitors can be required even if the applicable
requirement does not specifically require monitors.

The EPA is in process of developing and promulgating their enhanced monitoring rules.
These rules may speak specifically to continuous monitoring. The Commission will take
into account this new rule and determine if the operating permit monitoring requirements
should be revisited once the EPA rule is promulgated.

By January 1994, the EPA will publish a list of existing rules, which do not contain
sufficient monitoring, or recordkeeping methods, and will develop criteria that could be
used to determine what is sufficient. After the rules are identified, the EPA will proceed
to revise the rules to make them sufficient. The need for “gap filling” will then decrease.

9.     Compliance Certifications

Each operating permit application must be accompanied by a “compliance certification”
indicating that all information presented is true and accurate. The certification must be
signed by a “responsible official,” usually a CEO, of the company. Likewise, compliance
certifications must be submitted every six months, indicating the compliance status of
the source. Such certifications must also be signed by the responsible official. The
burden is on the source owner or operator to ensure that all permit conditions are
addressed in the certification, and all information is complete and correct.

The Commission's definition of “responsible official” allows delegation of responsible
official authority to plant managers under certain conditions, including prior approval
from the Division.

10.    Recordkeeping and Reports

The operating permit must contain all recordkeeping necessary to ensure compliance
with the applicable requirements. The Federal Act requires such data to be maintained
for five years. The Commission has determined that sources need not keep a full five
years of data on site for inspection review. Instead, sources are required to make



                                                                                          439
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

immediately available to the Commission or Division data for the past year, along with
the compliance certifications for the past five years. The actual data for the remaining
four years must be provided to the Commission or Division within 48 hours of request.

Monitoring data must be reported at least every six months.

The Commission will allow sources flexibility in determining what records are
appropriate, and in determining the schedule for reporting, in order to allow coordination
with other reporting requirements (such as Community Right to Know, etc.). Such
flexibility is allowed provided the requirements of the Clean Air Act are met.

Malfunctions and emergencies - The Commission has adopted the Federal provisions
for emergency and malfunction protection, except that sources are required to provide
oral notice within two hours of the next working day, and written notice with one month
after the emergency occurs. Past experience indicates that sources will most likely not
be able to meet the EPA's recommended two-day written notice.

The Commission does not include continuous monitor malfunctions in the emergency
provisions. The emergency provisions serve to provide an absolute defense if an
applicable requirement is violated. Since the Commission cannot tell if a source is in or
out of compliance with an applicable requirement when monitors malfunction, it is not
appropriate to include monitor malfunctions in the emergency provisions. Monitor
malfunctions which would violate provisions which set specific operating conditions and
specifications for the monitor, however, could be granted the emergency protection for
those specific performance conditions, if such malfunctions were due to unforeseen
circumstances and reported as set forth in the emergency provisions. The Commission
has determined that extra protection for monitor malfunctions is not warranted, as
procedures and specifications for monitors include performance requirements which
take into account the inherent operational fluctuations and abilities of the monitors.

Sources must report any exceedances of standards, which are not due to malfunctions
or emergencies “promptly.” The Commission has determined that including such
deviations in the six-month monitoring report is sufficient. This will not impair the
Division or Commission's authority to assess penalties regarding the deviation.




                                                                                         440
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Public Availability of Reports: Copies of all reports and compliance certifications will be
made available at the local health departments. As always, such information is available
at the Division offices.

11.    State-Only Conditions

Certain Commission regulations are not part of the State Implementation Plan, and
therefore are not federally enforceable. The Commission has given sources the option
of including state only conditions in operating permits, or of maintaining such conditions
in a separate construction permit. This option is available for all state-only conditions
except those pertaining to major Colorado HAP sources. Major Colorado HAP sources
are required by statute to obtain an operating permit. “State-only” conditions will be
listed separately from federal conditions in operating permit. (Sources that are major for
federal HAPs must obtain an operating permit, and provisions pertaining to the federal
HAPs are federal, not state conditions.)

Since the operating permit is meant to be used as an all-encompassing document for
sources and the Division, the source may want to refer to only one document to
determine what needs to be done to remain in compliance. If the conditions are included
in an operating permit, the source may choose whether or not to have the permit shield,
operational flexibility, and other operating permit allowances and requirements apply to
the conditions.

State-only conditions do not have to undergo the same procedural requirements as
other operating permit conditions. Affected state and EPA review is not required.

Currently, the following regulations are state-only requirements: odor Regulation
Number 2, municipal waste combustor Regulation Number 6, Part B. Future Colorado
MACT/GACT standards will be state-only requirements.

12.    Confidentiality

Applicants are allowed to classify certain information as being confidential in terms of
product or processes. In no case may emission information be kept confidential, and in
no case may compliance certifications be kept confidential.




                                                                                            441
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Records and reports may be kept confidential, however, instances where this will be
allowed will most likely be rare, since emissions data or information related to emissions
data may not be kept confidential.

The current confidentiality provisions and procedures remain in effect, however the
Commission has directed the Division to examine the provisions and procedures and to
recommend improvements.

D.     How Long Does It Take to Obtain the Permit?

1.     Completeness Review

The Division has sixty days from receipt of an application to determine if all information
necessary to process the application is included. If the application is incomplete, the
Division must notify the source and request the additional information. Additional
information must be submitted by the applicant within a reasonable amount of time.
Once a complete application is received, the Division must act on the application within
18 months. The Division must analyze the application, prepare the permit, and ensure
that all of the procedural steps as set out below are met. Once all requirements are met,
the Division will send the source its fee letter, and will not issue the permit until all
applicable processing fees are paid. The fee letter must be sent within 18 months of
receipt of a complete application.

2.     Public Notice and Hearing

Once the Division analyzes the application and prepares a draft permit, the permit and
application must undergo a thirty-day public notice. If a hearing is requested during the
public notice, thirty-day notice of the hearing must be provided, and the hearing must
occur within sixty days of the notice.

The Commission has provided an opportunity for sources to respond to any public
comments received. This source response in no way affects the Division's time
constraints for issuing the permit, nor does it affect the permit, which the Division
ultimately issues.

3.     Affected State Review




                                                                                            442
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

During the public notice, a copy of the draft permit will also be sent to any affected,
nearby states, for their review.

4.     EPA Review

Once public notice and hearing are completed, the Division will make any necessary
revisions to the draft permit, and will submit a proposed permit to the EPA for their
review. The EPA has 45 days to review the permit. The Division then has up to 90 days
to make any necessary revisions to the permit to address EPA concerns, before the
permit can be issued.

5.     Copies of Application

The applicant must provide a sufficient number of copies of the application for submittal
to the EPA, affected states and public notice, including copies for County
Commissioners.

E.     Renewals

1.     Renewal Application Content

Operating permits must be renewed every five years. Renewal applications must
undergo all of the review procedures (public notice, EPA review) as the initial operating
permit.

Applicants may incorporate by reference any previous application material or permits for
portions of the operation which will not change from the initial application. The renewal
application may only address operations which will change and which will require new
permit terms or conditions. Copies of all material incorporated by reference must be
included with the renewal application. All material must be provided for public comment,
affected state review, and EPA review.

2.     Renewal Application Due Date

The federal rule states that permitting authorities should be able to process “90%” of
renewal applications within six months. The federal rule does not mandate that states
process renewals within six months. The rule gives states flexibility to require
applications for renewals, and specifically states that other times may be approved,



                                                                                          443
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

which are necessary to issue the permit before it lapses. The application can be due as
soon as 18 months before expiration, and as late as six months. Renewed permits must
be issued before the old permit expires.

As described, the public comment, hearing notice, hearing, EPA review, and revision
periods required in the Federal rule take up 220 days, or approximately seven and a
half months. The time allotted for these activities is fixed in the Acts and rules (except
for the time allowed for States to revise draft permits, based on EPA review). The
amount of time for actual review of the application itself varies depending upon the type
of application. A breakdown of the allotted times follows:




                                                                                         444
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

                       Public Notice:           30 days

                       Hearing:                 60 days

                       EPA Review:              45 days

                       Division Response:       90 days

                       TOTAL                    220
                                                days

Two hundred and twenty (220) days is the minimum required. No time is allotted for
revising the permit between each step as necessary, nor for transmitting the permit from
one step to the next. The 220 days is required for public notice and EPA review only, it
does not include any time for the Division to actually review the application and draft a
permit.

Sources are allowed to seek judicial review if a permit is not issued in time. This could
potentially result in wasted Division and court resources dealing with an impossible
situation. In addition, the EPA may determine that the program is not adequate if the
Division continually fails to issue renewed permits before expiration. Finally, if permits
are not issued in time, the EPA can revoke and reissue permits, or can terminate the
permits, in which case the source's right to operate ceases.

Given that the notice and review procedures alone take 220 days, and the allowed
flexibility, and the requirement that renewed permits be issued before expiration, the
Commission has determined that it is not reasonable to allow renewal applications to be
submitted as late as six months before expiration. Nine months may be adequate if
hearings are not requested for such renewals, however, no one can predict how many
applications will or will not require public hearing. It would not make sense to accept
applications only six or nine months before expiration, knowing that if a hearing is
requested, the new permit will not be issued before expiration. The twelve months will
give the Division sufficient time to review the application, and in addition, will give the
source some time to ensure that they have submitted a complete application before the
permit expires. Sources are allowed to update their applications up to the time a draft




                                                                                          445
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

permit is issued for public notice. This will allow sources a chance to address any last
minute market considerations or changes in their application.

The Division will send written notice of the need to apply for a permit renewal to
permittees six months prior to the date a renewal application is due. This notice is to aid
permittees, and the failure of the Division to provide notice to any individual permittee is
not contended to be used as a defense for the failure to apply for a permit renewal.

As sources and the Division gain experience with the new operating permit program, the
Commission and the Division will determine if the timeframe for renewals can be
shortened. The first renewals will not be due until the year 2000.

F.     Reopening’s

Operating permits must be “reopened” during the term of the permit if new regulations
become applicable to the source, if a mistake is found in the permit, or if additional
measures need to be incorporated to ensure compliance with applicable requirements.
A permit is reopened to address only the new requirement or correction, not to address
the entire permit. The Division must give the source 30 days’ notice before reopening
the permit. Reopening’s must undergo all of the same procedures and requirements as
the original permit (notice, EPA review, etc.). The Commission will allow sources the
option to reopen an entire permit instead of just the necessary portion. This would
require, however, that a source be able to submit a complete application for renewal
within 30 days of notice, so that the Division can meet the 18-month deadline.

G.     Modifications

States must adopt expeditious procedures for processing changes that require a
modification to a permit.

1.     Administrative Modifications

Administrative modifications are *minor changes to the permit, such as change in
owner, more stringent monitoring requirements, or correction of typographical errors.
The change at the source can be made upon submittal, and the Division must revise the
permit within 60 days. No public notice or EPA review is required. The original expiration
date does not change when administrative modifications are made.


                                                                                         446
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

2.     Minor Modifications

The existing construction permit program requires sources to obtain construction
permits before they construct or modify. Revisions to construction permits are required
before any changes at the source are made. In contrast, the Federal rule allows
changes to be made without revisions to the operating permit, provided no SIP
requirements are violated. Sources are allowed to make “minor modifications” upon
notice to the Division. The source must supply a draft permit, which is submitted for
affected state and EPA review. The permit is revised within 90 days. No public notice is
required at the time the modification is made. The Commission was faced with a
dilemma. Since the construction permit program is a SIP requirement, sources would
not be allowed to make minor modifications without first obtaining a construction permit.
This in effect would negate the operational flexibility envisioned in the Federal Act.

Only certain modifications at the source may qualify as “minor modifications” for
operating permit purposes. The change cannot be a “Title 1” modification. Title I
contains requirements applicable to new sources. Title I revisions include the following
changes:

1.     Modification that triggers Prevention of Significant Deterioration and New Source
       Review (significant net emission increase)

The significant levels (defined in Part A of this regulation) are based on the potential to
emit of a source or modification. Since no construction permit is in place to limit the
potential to emit of a minor modification, all minor modifications will be triggered based
on potential emissions, not actual emissions.

2.     Modification which triggers New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) (Any
       change that increases the amount of any air pollutant) - This definition only
       applies to specific NSPS sources, unless it is referenced in an applicable
       requirement

3.     Modification that triggers Section 112 (hazardous pollutants). EPA will be
       adopting “de minimis” levels that will trigger a modification.




                                                                                          447
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Minor modifications cannot involve any significant change or relaxation in monitoring,
recordkeeping, or reporting requirements. Minor modifications also cannot violate any
permit condition, which the source has voluntarily obtained in order to limit potential
emissions for avoidance of requirements (such as PSD requirements).

The EPA expressed their concern regarding the construction permit SIP requirements
and minor modifications. The Commission has determined that it is appropriate to
submit a SIP revision for the construction permit program, in order to allow sources the
flexibility allowed under minor modifications. The Commission will allow minor
modifications under the operating permit procedure, and changes before obtaining a
permit, however all substantial requirements needed for a construction permit must be
met. These requirements include ambient modeling to assess the modification's impact
on air quality in Colorado, as required in the SIP. As under the current construction
permit program, minor modification procedures cannot be used to circumvent PSD or
NSR requirements by making individual changes, which together would otherwise
trigger PSD or NSR. The enforcement protection of the permit shield does not apply to
these modifications. Sources should be confident that all applicable requirements would
be met before submitting a change as a minor modification. If the source errs in its
determination, the Division, the Commission, and the EPA can take enforcement action
against the source and the source's right to operate under the modification is terminated
(the source must revert back to the permit as it existed before the modification was
requested).

Upon permit renewal, the minor modification undergoes public notice along with the rest
of the permit, and the permit shield can be extended to the minor modification
provisions.

3.     Significant Modifications

Significant modifications are changes at the source which are not administrative
modifications, and which do not qualify as minor modifications. Such changes trigger
PSD or NSPS, etc., or involve significant changes in or relaxation of monitoring,
recordkeeping and reporting requirements. A revised permit must be obtained before
the source is allowed to commence construction for the change.


                                                                                          448
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

A source may choose to obtain a revision to its operating permit, or it may choose to
obtain a construction permit before making the change. Significant modifications to
operating permits must undergo all of the public notice and EPA review requirements,
therefore a source should plan on submitting its application well in advance of making
the change. If a construction permit is obtained first, the source should apply at least 3
to 4-1/2 months in advance (except for PSD sources, which should plan 12 months in
advance). Once the construction permit is obtained, the source may commence
construction. The conditions of the construction permit do not need to be incorporated
into the operating permit until renewal, unless more than three years remains in the
term of the operating permit, in which case the operating permit must be reopened, and
the significant modification provisions incorporated.

H.     Operational Flexibility

The Federal rule requires a State's program to include operational flexibility provisions,
which allow a source to make certain changes without having to obtain a modification to
their operating permit. The changes are simply incorporated into the operating permit
when it is renewed. The types of operational flexibility are described briefly below.
Subcommittee papers and fact sheets, which explain the provisions in more detail, and
give specific examples, are available at the Division and Commission offices. The
Commission has directed the Division to devise simplified explanations of all of the
provisions.

“502(b)(10)” Changes (named after a Section of the Federal Act): A source is allowed to
make a change, which would violate an express permit term, provided no applicable
requirements are violated. The source can make the change after a seven-day advance
notice to the Division. The permit shield does not apply. The Commission will allow
sources to revert back to the original permit term, provided seven-day notice is given to
the Division. The permit shield can then apply again to the provision, which is contained
in the permit.

Permit Caps: A source may ask for an upper limit in total facility emissions. Changes
may occur within the facility, as long as the upper limit is not exceeded, and all
applicable requirements are met. The permit shield applies to these changes. Seven-


                                                                                        449
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

day notice is required before the change is made. This type of operational flexibility may
be suitable for research and development facilities.

Alternative Scenarios: The source can identify various operational scenarios in its
application, along with the applicable requirements and compliance demonstrations.
The source can then switch from one scenario to another without notification to the
Division. The permit shield applies to these changes.

Emission Trading Based on the Permit: The applicant can request that the trading
provisions (for netting out) provided for in Part A of this regulation be incorporated into
their operating permit. As long as all of the provisions are met, the source can use the
provisions to make changes without notification to the Division.

Off Permit Changes: These changes can be made at the source with seven-day notice
to the Division. The changes involve activities that are not addressed in the operating
permit. The same qualifications as those for minor modifications apply to these changes
(cannot be Title I modifications, significant monitoring changes, etc.) Note that the same
SIP concerns apply to these changes that are discussed under minor modifications. A
construction permit would be required before these changes could be made. The
Commission has decided to submit a SIP revision to allow these changes.

Emission trading based on the SIP: This is the only federally allowed operational
flexibility provision that the Commission did not adopt. This provision would allow
sources to use the emission trading provisions of Part A without specifically stating the
procedures in the permit. The Commission does not currently have an approved SIP
that would allow this, therefore the EPA would not approve this procedure at this time.
The EPA is expected to develop guidelines for approvable SIPs within two years. The
Commission will consider this provision once it is apparent what the EPA would
approve.

I.     General Permits

General permits are standard permits that apply to specific source categories. The
sources in the category have similar applicable requirements and similar monitoring,
recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The general permit will include criteria by



                                                                                         450
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

which a source may qualify for the permit. Sources that are out of compliance may not
qualify for a general permit, since a separate individual compliance plan would be
required. The general permit undergoes one-time public notice and hearing and EPA
review when it is initially developed. Qualifying sources can use standard, simplified
applications and obtain the general permit without having to go through the entire
application process (public notice and hearing) individually. A list of all sources that have
been issued a general permit shall be maintained by the Division and made available
upon request.

The general permit (as originally developed) undergoes five-year renewal, including
public notice and EPA review.

General permits will also be developed for the construction permit program, and will
usually be identical to the general operating permit for that source category. Existing
sources that have not obtained a general construction permit through the construction
permit program (probably because a general permit did not exist at the time a
construction permit was obtained) may operate under the general operating permit
within 60 days of submitting a complete application for the permit, which corresponds
with the amount of time allowed for a completeness determination. The application
shield becomes effective upon submission of a complete application. The Division will
issue the general permit to the source upon completion of the analysis. The permit
shield becomes effective upon issuance of the operating permit.

Sources which receive a general construction permit through the construction permit
program may operate under the general permit as an operating permit 60 days after a
complete operating permit application is submitted, provided the required compliance
demonstration has been performed in the required time (180 days). Such source must
apply for the operating permit within 12 months of commencing operation. Once such
application is received and determined to be complete, the Division will issue a
certification, which states that the construction permit now becomes the operating
permit.

General permits will ideally be useful for minor sources that will be subject to operating
permits at a later date. Minor sources are more likely to be subject to similar applicable


                                                                                          451
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements. The Commission has directed the Division to devote resources as they
become available to identification of sources that would be suitable for general permits
and to the development of general permits. Candidates for general operating permits
include sources that become subject to new MACT/GACT standards (i.e. dry cleaners),
or existing and new NSPS sources (i.e. asphalt plants).

The Commission will allow major sources to have general permits as part of their overall
operating permit. As general permits are developed, major sources may use them. The
source would just reference in their initial or renewal application that they have a
general permit. General permits, however, cannot be issued to major sources if the
issuance of the general permit would cause a violation of any of the applicable
requirements in any other operating permits they have, or if issuance of a general
permit would trigger a Title I or Title Ill modification. The Commission will allow general
permits to be used for an entire major source only in those instances where the use of
general permits is appropriate (homogenous, straight-forward sources).

J.     Title III (Hazardous Air Pollutant Requirements)

The provisions of Title Ill must be implemented through the operating permit program.
As discussed, all major sources of HAPs must obtain an operating permit. As the
Commission adopts MACT standards, the permit must be reopened to include the new
requirements.

As the EPA promulgates new MACT standards, they will decide if minor sources as well
as major sources affected by the standard must obtain operating permits.

Once the EPA approves the State's operating permit program, the Division and
Commission must begin making case by case MACT determinations for new major
sources and modifications, if the EPA has not yet set a MACT standard for that
category. The EPA will be setting emission levels at which modifications are triggered.

Once the EPA approves the State's operating permit program, if the EPA fails to meet its
mandated deadline for setting a particular MACT standard, the State must determine
MACT for that source category within 18 months. Permits will be reopened to
incorporate the State MACT standard. Once the EPA determines MACT for the



                                                                                         452
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

category, permits may need to be reopened again, and sources may need to retrofit
their units, depending upon the difference between the State and EPA MACT
determinations.

K.     Title IV (Acid Rain Provisions)

The Commission is required, and fully intends, to adopt the acid precipitation rules and
requirements as promulgated by the EPA, and to implement the requirements through
the Title V permits, as also required under the Federal Act.

Title IV sources (power plants) are required to submit the Title IV portion of their
operating permits by January 1, 1996. The permits must be issued by December 31,
1997. The EPA is planning on having all of the requirements and forms finalized so that
Title IV sources can apply for Title IV requirements at the same time they apply for their
initial operating permit. This could help avoid re-opening of the permit. To facilitate this,
the Commission has determined that Title IV sources should be included in the last
group of existing sources required to apply for operating permits (due one year after
EPA approves the program).

The Commission also intends to adopt provisions related to the WEPCO rule
promulgated by the EPA, which deals with Clean Coal Technology Projects and other
modifications at utilities. The rule is currently slated for the spring of 1994 in the
Commission's regulatory agenda. In the interim, the Commission and Division will
continue the existing policy of treating such projects as allowed by the EPA. Also, the
Commission wishes to encourage Clean Coal Technology Projects, which are used to
develop and identify better methods of controlling and preventing air pollution. The
Commission has directed the Division to consider research and development factors,
and the importance of developing new technologies, if enforcement action may be
necessary due to violations related to such projects.

II.    Construction Permit Program

A.     Synthetic Minors

As discussed, construction permits are the vehicles through which sources can obtain
federally enforceable limits on their emissions in order to avoid the operating permit



                                                                                          453
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

requirements. In some cases, sources may also choose to obtain limits to avoid PSD or
NSR requirements. Such synthetic minor permits must undergo public notice in order to
be federally enforceable.

B.    SIP Equivalency

The Commission has determined that it is appropriate to allow construction permit
sources to use the SIP equivalency procedure that is provided for operating permits in
the Federal Act. Current regulations, such as Regulation Number 7, require a case-by-
case SIP revision for equivalent procedures, which involves public notice, a mandatory
Commission hearing, and EPA approval. The new SIP equivalency provisions override
Regulation Number 7 provisions. All SIP equivalency proposals require public notice,
opportunity for hearing (but not mandated if not requested), and EPA review. The
Commission will require such construction permits to follow the PSD track, which
requires public notice and an opportunity for public hearing. The EPA will review the
proposal during the public comment period.

C.    Minor Modifications and Operational Flexibility

The Commission has extended most of the operational flexibility provisions directly to
the construction permit program, since no modification to a permit is required. These
provisions include Administrative Modifications, Alternative Scenarios, Emission Trading
Based on the Permit, and Permit Caps.

The remaining operational flexibility provisions, and the minor modification provisions
are not available through the construction permit program, however sources may obtain
these additional allowances by voluntarily applying for an operating permit.

D.    General Permits

The Commission has determined that the general permit process will be allowed only
for the operating permit program. The general application and permit forms, however,
should be used for construction permits as they are developed. The Colorado Act
requires new sources to obtain a construction permit before commencing construction,
therefore the source must have their construction permit in hand before constructing. In
addition, Regulation Number 3 requires certain sources to undergo public notice before



                                                                                        454
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

construction. The Commission believes that notice should continue to be provided to the
public where appropriate, before a source constructs near them.

As discussed under general operating permits, the Division will identify candidates for
general construction permits as resources are available. The same sources identified in
the discussion are candidates for general construction permits. In addition, general
permits may be suitable for sources wishing to obtain synthetic minor status, such as
emergency and backup generators.

III.   Emission Fees

Though it was not noticed for this hearing, some parties indicated they had concerns
regarding the Division's policies for charging annual emission fees. A request was made
to include the Division's policy in the regulation. The Commission believes the Division
should be given the flexibility to determine the most efficient and reasonable procedures
and policies for assessing fees, therefore the policy will not be included in the
regulation. The Division will prepare a written policy for public distribution on the
methods it will use to calculate and collect emission fees.

IV.    Where Can a Source Go for Assistance in Understanding the New
       Requirements?

A.     Small Business Assistance Program

Even though existing minor sources (small businesses) are exempt from the operating
permit program, small businesses will need help understanding the construction permit
program requirements. In addition small businesses need to understand the operational
flexibility requirements, and need to understand if it would be advantageous for them to
apply for an operating permit. The EPA may decide that some minor sources should be
required to apply for operating permits as new MACT and NSPS standards are
promulgated.

Last September, the Commission approved a plan for developing a Small Business
Assistance Program. The program is under development and is expected to be
implemented and fully operational by November of 1994. In the interim, Division staff is




                                                                                        455
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

available to answer any questions, which a small business may have regarding air
quality regulations and requirements.

Some information has already been developed regarding APEN requirements and
simplified calculation procedures.

B.     Pre-application Meetings

This regulation provides opportunity for any source to request a preapplication meeting
with the Division, to discuss what requirements may be applicable to a source.

C.     Division Staff

Division staff will remain available to all sources and the public, to answer questions
regarding the operating permit and construction permit programs.

I.M.   Adopted March 17, 1994
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 Part A, Section II.E.

Pursuant to Section 112(n) of the federal Clean Air Act, the US Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) is required to conduct an extensive study to create a reliable
estimate of the existence or quantity of hazardous air pollutants (HAPS) emissions from
certain sources such as utility and non-utility industrial boilers. Another study under
Section 112(n) relates to emissions from publicly owned treatment works (POTWs).
Section 112(n) recognizes that technological limitations exist on the ability to reliably
estimate these emissions. The required studies are complex and costly, and EPA has
indicated that the utility and non-utility boiler study will not be concluded until the end of
1995. The original time frame contemplated by Congress anticipated that the study
would be completed by November 15, 1993. Unlike the mandatory boiler study, the
Clean Air Act merely authorized EPA to study POTW emissions and EPA has decided
not to continue with the study. Thus, the emissions information that was originally
expected will not be developed in time to facilitate APEN reporting by December 1994.
Since the emissions from facilities that treat municipal-type wastewater are virtually
identical to those from POTWs, the lack of POTW emissions data also affects this
category of sources as well.




                                                                                            456
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

During rulemaking in 1993, a deferral for HAP reporting from boilers and other listed
sources was granted until six months from the date federal studies are complete or until
December 31, 1994. This deferral appears in Part A, Section II.E.

This was based in large part on the recognition that it would be unreasonable and
infeasible to expect these sources to attempt to duplicate the EPA studies and to
provide meaningful data earlier than EPA. The postponement was not intended to forgo
reporting obligations (it applied to emissions points and processes only, not to entire
facilities), but rather, to recognize technical limitations and to await (not duplicate) the
results of the EPA studies. The Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and
Purpose for the 1993 rulemaking session explained, “Due to ongoing studies aimed at
quantifying their emissions of non-criteria pollutants, the Commission has deferred
APEN reporting requirements for five source categories until six (6) months after the
studies have been completed or December 31, 1994, whichever is earlier.”

It is now apparent that neither the EPA boiler study nor the POTW study will be timely
completed for effective implementation of ' II.E. The clear intent of the regulation is to
postpone report of HAP emissions by sources such as utility and non-utility industrial
boilers, POTWs and municipal-type wastewater treatment works, pending the results of
the ongoing EPA studies. The rationale for this intention is that it is technologically
infeasible for these sources to comply with this reporting requirement without the results
and utilization of the EPA studies. The original intent and rationale for a postponement
continue to pertain at this time and provide the basis for this rulemaking.

Additionally, highly costly tests would be required if reporting is required prior to the
results of the EPA studies. There is a serious question about the accuracy of any
reporting prior to the conclusions of the EPA studies. Moreover, if sources attempt to
formulate tests, inconsistencies with testing procedures, resulting data and
interpretation thereof would result, thereby further complicating issues for impacted
sources and administration by the state. It is believed that using the EPA studies results
will allow avoidance of such costs and result in more accurate APENS, which, in turn,
will facilitate easier administration by the state.




                                                                                            457
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

During the Commission's prior deliberations on this matter, the Commission expressed
intent to revisit this December 31, 1994 deadline if the EPA studies would not be timely
completed. Impacted sources must be placed on notice as early as possible concerning
any deadline because lead-time to conduct studies and extensive planning would be
necessary. This rulemaking postpones to December 31, 1995, or six (6) months after
the EPA studies are complete, whichever are earlier, for utility and non-utility industrial
boilers, and POTWs and municipal-type wastewater treatment plants. This decision
furthers the Commission's original intent concerning the underlying reporting. This issue
may be revisited in the future if the information expected to be derived from the EPA
studies continue to be delayed.

The specific authority for this regulation is contained in the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, 1992 as amended. The Legislative Declaration, ' 25-7-102,
recognizes that an accurate emission inventory is needed to adequately manage air
resources in Colorado. Section 25-7-109.3 provides authority for regulating HAPs.
Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority for requiring APENS, and for allowing exemptions
from the requirements. Section 25-7-109(4) requires the Commission to promulgate
regulations pertaining to HAPs.

I.N.   Adopted May 19, 1994
Findings Regarding the Basis for the Emergency Rule Revisions to Regulation
Number 3, Concerning the Operating Permit Program

The Air Quality Control Commission held this emergency rulemaking hearing on May
19, 1994, after such notice of rulemaking as practical, to postpone the November 15,
1994 deadline for submission of operating permit applications by those existing major
stationary sources previously notified by the Division to submit applications by that
deadline. The revisions to Regulation Number 3 would phase-in the required
submission of operating permit applications by these sources over a three-month period
beginning January 1, 1995. The Commission finds that the immediate adoption of this
emergency regulation is imperatively necessary for the preservation of the public
welfare and to ensure compliance with the federal law, and that compliance with normal
notice requirements for rulemaking would be contrary to the public interest.



                                                                                         458
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This emergency regulation is necessary for three reasons. First, the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) has issued a formal letter to the State of Colorado advising the
State that its Title V operating permit program submission, contained in the
Commission's Regulation Number 3, must be revised in order to obtain federal approval
of the State operating permit program in accordance with the mandates of the federal
Clean Air Act. The earliest date by which the Commission is able, pursuant to law, to
promulgate such revisions and make them effective is September 30, 1994. Sources
that are subject to the operating permit application deadline of November 15, 1994 will
not have sufficient time to complete their applications and submit them by that time after
the promulgation of the revisions.

Secondly, and more importantly, it was not until the 1994 Colorado legislative session
that the legislature appropriated money for the necessary FTE's at the Division to
process operating permit applications and to implement the program. The money will
not be available for the Division's use until July 1994, and given the shortcomings of the
State personnel system, the new Division employees will not, in all likelihood, begin
their employment until on or around November 1, 1994. If the Commission did not act
on an emergency basis to postpone the application deadline of November 15, 1994,
persons subject to the application deadline will be required to apply to the Division prior
to its ability to fully train the new employees or to provide sources any services
necessary under the mandates of the federal Clean Air Act. This imposes an
unnecessary burden on sources, as well as the Division.

Finally, the federal Clean Air Act requires that the State have sufficient money to cover
the direct and indirect costs of implementing the Title V program. These costs include
those necessary for the Division to review permit applications and issue permits within
certain established timeframes, as well as to perform inspections and other compliance
monitoring actions. The EPA has indicated to the State, in a letter dated April 8, 1994,
that if the State does not have sufficient money to cover these costs, the EPA cannot
grant any type of approval, including interim program approval. In this event, EPA must
take over the Title V program in Colorado, and has threatened to impose sanctions on
the State. Therefore, the Commission must act on an emergency basis to postpone the
operating permit application deadline in order to give sources sufficient advance notice


                                                                                        459
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

of the changed deadline and in order to ensure that the Division will be able to review
and process those applications within the timeframes set forth in the federal Clean Air
act.

In light of the evidence presented at the emergency hearing on the difficulty and cost to
sources of completing operating permit applications, given the short timeframe between
the Commission's ability to revise and make effective changes to Regulation Number 3
required by the EPA and the current deadline; on the difficulty and cost of evaluating
operating permit applications filed with the Division and of the Division's inability to
perform services required by the current Regulation Number 3 and deadline of
November 15, 1994; and on the EPA's letter evidencing its concern that the Division will
not be sufficiently financed to perform those federally-mandated services, the
Commission finds that an emergency exists which warrants the passage of this
emergency regulation. The Commission does not believe that this emergency regulation
represents any risk to public health.

I.O.    Adopted August 18, 1994
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose comply with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S. (1994)
for adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The 1990 Amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act require states to implement an
operating permit program. Failure of a state to implement the operating permit program
will result in EPA sanctions.

On July 15, 1993, the Air Quality Control Commission adopted revisions to Regulation
Number 3 necessary to implement the State's operating permit program. The
Commission also adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3 that were necessary to
integrate the operating permit program with the existing construction permit program,
and that were necessary to extend certain provisions of the operating permit program to
minor sources not otherwise subject to the program.



                                                                                           460
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

On November 5, 1993, the Governor submitted Colorado's operating permit program to
the Region VIII, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for its approval. The EPA
reviewed Colorado's submittal and on April 8, 1994 responded to the State's submittal,
noting certain deficiencies in the program. These deficiencies must be corrected and the
revisions submitted to the EPA no later than October 1, 1994. The Commission
promulgated these revisions to Regulation Number 3 in response to EPA's comments.
EPA also noted certain legislative changes that are required in order for the State of
Colorado to obtain full approval of its operating permit program. Therefore, at this time,
the Commission contemplates that the State will receive interim approval of the
operating permit program; within 18 months after receiving the interim approval from
EPA, the State must submit legislation that will satisfy all of the federal requirements.

The EPA in its April 8 letter required the Commission to revise in certain respects the
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose for Revisions to
Regulation Number 3 that was dated July 15, 1993 and which was submitted to the EPA
on November 5, 1993. The required revisions are reflected in this Statement of Basis,
dated August 18, 1994.




                                                                                          461
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Authority

The specific authority for this regulation and its revisions is contained in the Colorado Air
Quality Control Act, 25-7-101, et seq. (1989 & 1994 Supp.). Section 25-7- 105(l)(A)(1)
requires the Commission to adopt into the State Implementation Plan all requirements
of the federal act. Sections 25-7-105(12) provide authority to implement the operating
permit provisions of Title V of the federal act. Section 25-7-105.1 sets forth the federal
enforceability provisions. Section 25-7-106(6) provides authority for monitoring,
recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority for
APEN requirements and for allowing exemptions from the requirements. Section 25-7-
114.2 through 114.5 set forth construction and operating permit requirements, and
application and public participation requirements. Commission action in promulgating
these revisions is taken pursuant to Sections 25-7-105 to 109 and 25-7-114.

Statement of Basis and Purposes of Changes to Regulation

1.     In Part A, I.B.9.e., the definition of “applicable requirement” concerning enhanced
       monitoring was changed to comply with the federal definition, incorporating all
       monitoring and enhanced monitoring requirements established pursuant to
       Sections 504(b) and 114(a)(3) of the federal act.

2.     In Part A, I.B.22., the definition of “federally enforceable” was amended to mirror
       the definition found in Section 25-7-105.1 of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
       and Control Act.

3.     In Part A, I.B.35.D.e., the Commission exempted any modifications that are not
       “major modifications” from the definition of Title I modifications, for sources with
       operating permits that utilize the minor permit modification procedures set forth in
       Part C, Section X.A. This is because EPA cannot allow the minor permit
       modification procedures to be used for Title I modifications; therefore, for the
       minor permit modification procedures to have any use at all, this change was
       necessary. All modifications must still comply with the requirements of 40 CFR
       Part 51.165, as reflected in Regulation Number 3, Part B, IV.D.1.a.-h. In effect,
       this change merely allows an operating permit source to modify without going




                                                                                          462
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     through the procedural requirements of obtaining a construction permit, but still
     requires the source to meet all substantive requirements.

4.   Part C, X.A.5., XII.A.1 and XII.B. were revised to reflect the change described in
     paragraph Number 3.

5.   Part A, I.B.62, a definition of “state-only condition” was added. This term is used
     throughout Regulation Number 3.

6.   In Part A, Section II.D.1.aaa. (APEN exemptions), and in Part C, Section
     II.E.3.aaa. (insignificant activities for operating permits), the Commission
     exempted storage of lubricating oils from notice and permit requirements.
     Because new source performance standards apply to storage tanks of capacity >
     40,000 gallons, the Commission revised these provisions to ensure that the
     exemptions would not allow a source to avoid new source performance
     standards.

7.   In Part A, II.D.5., the Commission established an administrative procedure
     whereby the Division could process and grant requests for exemptions from
     permit and APEN requirements. However, this amounted to a SIP revision
     without allowing EPA the opportunity to review and approve the revisions.
     Therefore, the Commission amended this procedure to require that the
     Commission adopt the exemptions pursuant to rulemaking, on an annual basis,
     and submit the revisions to EPA prior to a source being able to take the
     exemptions.

8.   Part A, IV.B. contains operational flexibility provisions concerning “trading based
     on the permit.” The federal rule allows a source to take advantage of any EPA-
     approved emissions trading program, without the need for a SIP revision. At this
     time, Colorado does not have an EPA-approved generic emissions trading
     program. To obtain EPA approval of the State's operating permit program, the
     Commission amended this provision to clarify that the trading based on the
     permit may be utilized only if the SIP contains an EPA approved trading program.




                                                                                     463
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

9.    At Part B, III.A.6., the Commission clarified that the provisions of IV.D.1.a.-h.
      must be met in order for the source to utilize the minor permit modification
      procedures. Previously, the Commission had merely cross-referenced Section
      IV.D.1., which contained time periods for review that conflicted with the minor
      permit modification procedures.

10.   At Part B, IV.D.1.i. and in Part C, V.C.1.c., the Commission had provided
      authority for a source to use an alternative emissions limitation that is as
      stringent as an applicable requirement so long as the permit contained provisions
      to ensure that the limitation is quantifiable, accountable, enforceable and based
      on replicable procedures. The preamble to the operating permit rule, 40 CFR
      Part 70 makes clear that it is the SIP, not the permit that must contain these
      replicable procedures. Therefore, in Part C, the Commission amended V.C.1.c. to
      clarify that the alternative emissions limitation may be taken only if it is allowed
      by the SIP; then in Part B, IV.D.1.i., the Commission removed the alternative
      emissions limitation language because the SIP must itself contain the replicable
      procedures. EPA is expected to have guidance in the near future on alternative
      emissions limitation.

11.   In Part C, III.B.7., the Commission clarified that a source applying for a combined
      construction/operating permit must first obtain the permit prior to commencing
      construction.

12.   In Part C, III.C.12., the Commission clarified that ambient air quality standard
      considerations in issuing permits apply only to temporary sources (pursuant to
      the federal law), and to new and modified sources applying for a combined
      construction/operating permit (pursuant to state and federal law). Although this
      was always the case, the provision previously could have been read to allow
      consideration of these standards in issuing operating permits.

13.   In Part C, V.B.3. & 5., the Commission allowed minor sources to voluntarily opt
      into the operating permit program in order to gain the operational flexibility of
      operating permits. These minor sources, however, could avoid the public
      participation, EPA and affected state review provisions. The EPA was concerned


                                                                                          464
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      that synthetic minor sources would be able to opt into the program, and in so
      doing would lose their federally enforceable limitation (imposed by the
      construction permit which would be lost), without going through the required
      public participation and EPA and affected state review. The Commission revised
      these provisions to clarify that synthetic minors opting into the program must go
      through all the necessary reviews. In addition, major sources of Colorado-only
      HAPs need not go through the public review process attendant to operating
      permits. The EPA was concerned that the provision could be read to allow federal
      HAP major sources to avoid public participation and review. The Commission
      clarified these provisions to ensure that such was not the case.

14.   In Part C, Section III.B., the Commission revised the schedule for submission of
      operating permit applications by the remaining two-thirds of sources in order to
      reflect the anticipated interim approval date of the operating permit program of
      January 1, 1995. This revision would also allow the Division to notify some
      sources of the need to submit an application before January 1, 1996, but on or
      after November 15, 1995, upon twelve months' notice.

Changes to the Statement of Basis and Purpose dated July 15, 1993

I.C.2. “Regulated HAPS”

Revise this paragraph to read:

Note that a HAP must be subject to a standard before the applicant is required to
address it in the permit application. Once the EPA adopts a MACT standard for a
particular HAP, all sources, even those not subject to the particular MACT standard, and
even those not in the source category, must address that HAP in applications. In cases
where the Commission or Division determines MACT on a case-by-case basis because
the EPA has not timely promulgated a MACT standard for a source category or
subcategory of sources, the MACT becomes applicable to all sources within that source
category, pursuant to 112(g) of the federal act. In cases where the Commission or
Division determines MACT on a case-by-case basis for an existing source that modifies
prior to promulgation of an applicable MACT standard, the HAP becomes regulated only
for a particular source subject to the case-by-case standard, pursuant to 112(g) of the


                                                                                      465
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

federal act. Once the EPA promulgates the list of 112(r) (accidental release) pollutants,
those pollutants will be considered to be “regulated” for all sources.

I.G.2. Minor Modifications

Revise the second paragraph under this heading to read:

Only certain modifications at the source may qualify as “minor modifications” for
operating permit purposes. The change cannot constitute a “major modification” as that
term is defined in Part A, Section II.B.35.B. The change cannot otherwise be a “Title I”
modification. Other Title I requirements are applicable to new sources. These Title
revisions include the following changes: (same).

I.H.    Operational Flexibility

Emission Trading Based on the Permit: Revise this paragraph to read: The federal rule
allows a source to change its operations, using the emissions trading provisions of an
EPA-approved SIP to net out and avoid the need to revise its permit. At this time, the
emissions trading provisions of Part A, Section V, have not been approved by EPA as
generic trading provisions. Therefore, until the Colorado SIP contains a generic
emissions trading policy approved by EPA, each emissions trade request will require a
case-by-case SIP revision. EPA is intending to provide guidance for an emissions
trading program in the near future.

I.P.    Adopted March 16, 1995
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 Construction Permit Program

Background

At the request of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, the Air Quality
Control Commission adopted amendments to Regulation Number 3, Parts A and B, in
order to clarify how the provisions relate to each and the federal regulations. These
changes were necessary in order to gain federal approval of the State Implementation
Plan.

Specific Statutory Authority




                                                                                         466
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Specific authority for this regulation is found in the Colorado Air Quality Control Act.
Section 25-7-105(1) provides that the Commission shall promulgate such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration and necessary for the
proper implementation and administration of the Colorado Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, including a comprehensive state implementation plan which shall meet all
requirements of the federal act and shall be revised whenever necessary or appropriate.
Section 25-7-109 provides that the Commission shall adopt, promulgate and from time
to time modify or repeal emission control regulations that require the use of effective
practical air pollution controls. Section 24-4-103 provides the rule making procedure
followed during the promulgation of this rule. Section 25-7-110 provides the specific
Commission procedures followed during the setting of standards and regulations.
Commission action in promulgating these regulations is taken pursuant to the statutory
provisions.

Purpose

Most of the amendments to Regulation Number 3, Parts A and B are of a general
housekeeping nature. However, three provisions require greater explanation:

The Division originally proposed adding a definition of “construction” consistent with the
federal definition for New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration. To
eliminate the potential for confusion and conflict with the state statutory definition, the
Division has removed that provision from the amendments. There is a definition for
construction, which applies to Regulation Number 3, Parts A and B, in the General
Provisions Regulations; that definition matches the state statutory definition.

The changes to the definition of “Net Emissions Increase” in Part A, Section I.B.37
needs some explanation. In order for an increase or decrease to be creditable, the
Division could not have relied on the increase or decrease in issuing a permit under
Regulation Number 3. Also, the source has two choices for proving the extent of the
emissions increase or decrease: (1) the source submits or has on file an APEN
indicating the baseline emissions rate and then submits a revised APEN within one year
after making the increase or decrease (the difference between the two APENs is the
amount of creditable increase or decrease) or (2) the source provides credible,


                                                                                          467
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

demonstrable evidence to the Division of actual emission rates both before and after
making the increase or decrease (the source can make the before and after
demonstration any time during the contemporaneous period).

The general constructions permit provisions of Part B, Section IV.J. were amended to
provide greater detail of how the Division would actually implement the provisions. The
Division retains the discretion to determine whether it will issue a general construction
permit, although a source or group of sources can request that the Division do so.
These provisions are meant only for minor sources, including sources wishing to obtain
federally enforceable limits on their potential to emit, making them synthetic minors. The
contents of a general construction permit will vary depending on the type of source
involved. The Division will state in the general construction permit that goes out for
public notice all the criteria a source must meet in order to qualify for coverage under
the permit, the method of application (including specific application forms if different
from a standard construction permit), the deadline for application, and other
requirements as necessary and specified in the permit (i.e. monitoring, reporting, and
recordkeeping requirements). After receiving an application to be covered by a general
construction permit, the Division will determine whether the source fits within the
intended coverage of the general construction permit, meets all applicable
requirements, and satisfies all the criteria as laid out in the general construction permit.
If the Division grants a source the right to construct and operate under a general
construction permit, there are still some situations under which the Division may require
the source to obtain an individual construction permit (i.e., the source makes changes
that bring it out of compliance with the general construction permit or circumstances
change such that the source is no longer appropriately controlled under the general
construction permit).

Overall, the amendments to Regulation Number 3, Parts A and B are meant to integrate
with the existing rules and meet the federal requirements for the State Implementation
Plan.

I.Q.    Adopted May 18, 1995
Revisions to Regulation Numbers 8 and 3 Synthetic Minor Permit Program



                                                                                           468
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose comply with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S. (1994)
for adopted or modified regulations.

Background

At the request of the Division, the regulated community and the state legislature (HB94-
1264), the Air Quality Control Commission adopted rules that would allow the Division to
issue permits to limit a source's potential to emit hazardous air pollutants (HAP). Such a
mechanism is necessary and important because it enables the Division to issue a
permit to a source of HAP in order to limit the source's potential to emit below emission
thresholds requested by the applicant, thus allowing the source to avoid a variety of
requirements such as Title V operating permit requirements, Title III maximum
achievable control technology (MACT) requirements promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or Colorado MACT requirements.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific authority for these revisions is contained in the Colorado Air Quality Control
Act, 25-7-101, et seq. (1989 & 1994 Supp.). Section 25-7-109.3(2) provides the specific
authority for the Commission to adopt provisions allowing the Division to create
synthetic minor sources of hazardous air pollutants. Section 25-7-109 provides that the
Commission shall adopt emission control regulations requiring the use of effective
practical air pollution controls. Section 25-7-109.3(2) provides that in order to minimize
additional regulatory and compliance costs to the state's economy, any program created
by the Commission shall contain a provision, which exempts those sources or
categories of sources, which it determines to be of minor significance from the
requirements of the program. Section 24-4-103 provides the rule making procedure
followed during the promulgation of this rule. Section 25-7-110 provides the specific
Commission procedures followed during the setting of standards and regulations.
Commission action in promulgating these regulations is taken pursuant to the statutory
provisions.

Purpose




                                                                                        469
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The rulemaking includes the permanent addition of Regulation Number 8, Part E,
Section IV and amendments to Regulation Number 3, Part B. Following is a description
of the purpose of each Section within Regulation Number 8, Part E, Section IV:

Section A of the rule clarifies that Regulation Number 8, Part E, Section IV applies to
sources that choose to voluntarily limit their potential to emit HAP. This Section clarifies
that although the Division shall issue permits to qualified applicants, the Division will not
include in the permit any indication of the source's exemption status for other
requirements (i.e. Title V or Title III of the federal Act) unless the source asks the
Division to include all relevant emissions units and pollutants in the permit review. Under
this regulation, the applicant chooses which emission units to cover in the particular
permit: that can be all HAP emission points, some or one HAP emission points, all
criteria pollutant emission points, and/or some or one criteria pollutant emission points.
Unless there is a need for a state-only or federally enforceable permit condition, the
Division will not impose any additional applicable requirements on criteria pollutants or
HAPs for the emission unit or a number of emission units. If the permit applicant wants
a thorough review of the facility and a determination by the Division that the facility
qualifies as a synthetic minor from Title V and/or Title III, or other specific provisions of
the state or federal Act, then the applicant can choose to have a comprehensive
Division review in the permit. Sources choose in the permit application the threshold
level below which they want to limit the potential to emit hazardous or criteria pollutants.
Sources may want to bring their emissions below Title V major source thresholds or
may want to limit their emissions below affected source thresholds under specific MACT
standards or enhanced monitoring thresholds when those rules are eventually enacted.
When a source applies for a permit under Regulation Number 8, the Division uses the
procedural provisions of Regulation Number 3 to issue the permit. Finally, this Section
clarifies that receiving a permit under this regulation will not relieve a source from
possible future EPA requirements that apply to minor or area sources of HAP or state
conditions; however, such sources may request a permit to further limit the potential to
emit HAP below the trigger threshold.

Section B describes the elements of a permit issued under this regulation. The permit
needs to include practically enforceable permit conditions. The Division makes the final


                                                                                           470
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

determination on what those conditions are on a case-by-case basis for each permit.
The monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements will depend on the specific
source, for instance, practical enforceability may require calculating mass balances,
installing a continuous emission monitor, keeping track of consumption rates for various
materials, etc. However, the permit conditions to limit a source's potential to emit shall
be only as stringent as necessary to limit the source's potential to emit the pollutant of
concern. For instance, the Division cannot require a source to add control equipment to
reduce emissions significantly if the source can adequately reduce emissions without
that control equipment. The applicant may consolidate reporting or monitoring
requirements from this regulation and Regulation Number 3 for the emissions unit.
Finally, if requested by the applicant, the permit may include alternative operating
scenarios, approved by the Division. Such alternative operating scenarios shall include
specific monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting methods as needed. However,
Section IV.B.4 for alternative operating scenarios is not intended to include
modifications that trigger new source review unless such sources go through all the
specific requirements of the construction permit program for modifications under new
source review.

Section C tells the source what information to turn in to the Division, increasing the
efficiency of communications between the source and the Division and streamlining the
application process. The application forms will reflect the intent for the Division to be
flexible in its approach to permitting these sources. Although the Division would prefer a
consistent approach (i.e., all applications filled out fully), the Division recognizes that
often these sources will have unique circumstances that cannot be adequately
addressed in a standard application form. The Division further intends that the
application forms be flexible enough so that sources can choose to have the Division
calculate emissions and determine the permit conditions for them.

Section D, the public participation requirements, is a requirement of EPA. This Section
makes mandatory what was previously discretionary for the Division.

Section E clarifies that the Division can combine the requirements from this Regulation
with those for limiting the potential to emit criteria pollutants under Regulation Number 3



                                                                                              471
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

into a single permit so that it is easier for both the Division and the source to keep track
of the overall permit requirements. Also, this Section IV of Regulation Number 8 is not
intended to restrict the ability of a source to apply for and the Division to issue a
construction permit under Regulation Number 3 with limits on the potential to emit
criteria or hazardous air pollutants.

Section F explains to the source that if a physical or operational change triggers another
requirement, the permit issued under this Section will not relieve the source of the
obligation to comply with that requirement.

Section G informs the source that is must comply with the permit conditions at all times,
i.e. on an ongoing basis.

Section H serves as an interim mechanism for gaining federal enforceability of the
permit and is based on EPA guidance on potential to emit; this Section does not apply
once EPA has approved these rules for limiting the potential to emit HAP. In order for a
permit to be federally enforceable, EPA must receive a certification of compliance from
the source indicating the source will comply with the permit terms. The source should
send a copy of the initial permit approval with the certification of compliance to EPA and
a copy of the certification to the Division (to keep in the permit file). The responsible
official, defined in Regulation Number 3, needs to sign the certification.

The revisions to Regulation Number 3 are necessary to implement the provisions of
Regulation Number 8, Part E, Section IV through the construction permit program. Note,
that the operating permit program already has the necessary provisions to integrate
Regulation Number 8, Part E, Section IV. The amendment to Section III.A.4 is not
intended to extend any new rights to the applicant in the event the applicant declines
permit conditions set by the Division, this amendment just makes explicit that the permit
is strictly voluntary and that a dissatisfied applicant has normal rights of appeal
associated with construction permits issued under Regulation Number 3. The addition of
Section III.A.7 is to clarify that if a source wants to request a limit on the potential to emit
in a standard construction permit, the source may do so. This Section also gives the
Division the authority to limit the potential to emit HAP in a construction permit. The
amendments to Section IV.C implement the public participation requirements of


                                                                                            472
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Regulation Number 8, Part E, Section IV. The requirement that the Division submit a
copy of the public notice to EPA for sources applying for a permit to limit the potential to
emit criteria pollutants or federal HAP is meant to include criteria pollutants (already
required under an agreement between the Division and EPA) and federal HAP listed in
Appendix A of Regulation Number 8 (these are the HAP listed by EPA under Section
112(b) of the federal Act). Permits for sources limiting the potential to emit Colorado
HAP do not need to be sent to EPA for comment.

Overall, these rules are intended to meld with the existing permit provisions within
Regulation Number 3 while providing the added authority for the Division to issue
permits to limit the potential to emit hazardous air pollutants and the opportunity for
Colorado sources to get out of more rigorous permit requirements.

I.R.    Adopted May 18, 1995
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 Part A, Section II.E.2 (As requested by Metro
Wastewater Reclamation District)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for revisions to
Regulation Number 3 complies with the requirements of the Administrative Procedures
Act, C.R.S. ' 24-4-103(4) for adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments required states to inventory air emissions. C.R.S. '
25-7-114.1 contains the requirements for this inventory. The Amendments also
authorized EPA to conduct emissions studies for certain source categories, included
publicly owned treatment works (POTWs). No adequate, reliable, and economically
reasonable emissions estimations methods are currently widely available for these
emissions.

Based on the expectation that publication of these studies would result in the creation
and dissemination of practical emission estimation techniques, revisions to Regulation
Number 3 were promulgated in March of 1994 which postponed reporting of non-criteria
reportable pollutants for these sources until July 31, 1995, or until six months after the
completion of the national studies, whichever occurred first. The postponement also



                                                                                           473
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

applied to facilities, which treat municipal-type wastewater, since such facilities'
emissions are virtually identical to those from POTWs.

EPA has eliminated funding for the federal POTW study. However, the Association of
Metropolitan Sewerage Agencies (AMSA) has been assisting EPA in preparing its
guidance document, and AMSA has also been preparing its own guidance. These
documents are expected to be useful in estimating POTW air emissions. A final draft of
AMSA's report is expected to be issued in the summer of 1995. EPA is also expected to
issue its finding of presumptive MACT for POTWs for purposes of the Clean Air Act ''
112(j) and (g) at about this time.

Authority

The specific authority for this regulatory amendment is contained in C.R.S. ' 25-7-
106(1), which authorizes the Air Quality Control Commission to promulgate such
regulations as are necessary or desirable to carry out an effective air quality control
program, and ' 25-7-114.1, which authorizes the Commission to promulgate the APEN
inventory program.

Purpose

In order to give POTWs and facilities that treat municipal-type wastewater sufficient time
to prepare reliable APENs, the Commission has extended the postponement of
reporting for non-criteria reportable pollutants for these sources until December 31,
1995. The Commission finds that extending the APEN reporting deadline is in the public
interest because the information to be published by EPA and AMSA will not become
available to these sources in time to allow for sufficiently reliable APEN reporting.

I.S.    Adopted August 17, 1995
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 to Change TSP to PM-10 for PSD Increments
and Housekeeping

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis


                                                                                          474
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

On June 3, 1993 the U. S. EPA promulgated changes to the Prevention of Significant
Deterioration (PSD) rules replacing the Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) increment
with particles with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to a nominal 10
micrometers (PM-10) increments. TSP continues to have a significance level for new
sources but no longer influences the PSD increments.

Additionally the Division has identified several mistakes in the publishing of Regulation
Number 3.

Specific Authority

The specific authority for this regulation is contained in the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act, 1992 as amended. Section 25-7-105 (1) (a) (I) requires the
Commission to promulgate a comprehensive state implementation plan that meets all
requirements of the federal Clean Air Act. Section 25-7-105(1) (c) requires the
Commission to promulgate a prevention of significant deterioration program.

Purpose

The Regulation Number 3 PSD rules implement the Federal PSD rules in Colorado.
Under the PSD program areas that are in compliance with the National Ambient Air
Quality Standards (NAAQS) are required to adopt a permit program for the
preconstruction review of new stationary sources and modifications of existing
stationary sources to prevent significant deterioration of existing air quality levels. The
implementation of the new PM-10 increments will utilize the existing baseline dates and
baseline areas for PM. The PM increments measured, and PM-10 already consumed
since the original baseline dates established for TSP will continue to be accounted for,
but all future calculations of the amount of increments consumed will be based on PM-
10 emissions.

The Division is also proposing some minor housekeeping while revising this regulation.
There were several Sections where the language published in the Colorado Register
was either repeated or the changed paragraph and the original paragraph were both
printed. There was also an outside request that submitted an outdated version of the
regulation that was inadvertently published.



                                                                                         475
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.T.    Adopted December 21, 1995
Part A, Sections I.B.37 & 67; Part B, Section IV.D.4

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulations 3, 7 and the Common Provisions establish lists of Negligibly Reactive
Volatile Organic Compounds (NRVOCs). The revisions adopted consolidate the list of
NRVOCs into the Common Provisions, assuring that the same list of NRVOCs apply to
all the Colorado Regulations. This provides more consistency in those chemicals
regulated as VOCs.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provides the authority for the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission to adopt and modify Regulations pertaining to
organic solvents and photochemical substances. Section 25-7-109(2)(f) and 25-7-
109(2)(g), C.R.S., grant the Commission the authority to promulgate regulations
pertaining to Organic solvents and photochemical substances. The Commission's action
is taken pursuant to authority granted and procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-105,
25-7-109, and 25-7-110, C.R.S.

Purpose

Of the EPA list of non-photochemically VOCs), and adopting the EPA definition by
reference, a single list of negligibly reactive VOCs will apply uniformly to all These
revisions to Regulations Number 3, 7, and the Common Provisions are intended to
clarify substances that are negligibly reactive VOCs, which are reflected in the EPA list
of non-photochemically reactive VOCs. By consolidating the list (which consists
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission Regulations.

This revision will also include EPA's recent addition of acetone to the negligibly reactive
VOC list. The addition of acetone to the list of negligibly reactive VOC's provides
additional flexibility to sources looking for an alternative to more photochemically


                                                                                         476
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

reactive VOCs. Because the EPA has added acetone to their list of non-photochemically
reactive VOCs many industries, which make and supply products to Colorado
industries, are planning to substitute acetone for more reactive VOCs. This change in
the content of products purchased by industry for use in Colorado would adversely
affect industries in Colorado if acetone remains a regulated VOC in Colorado. By
adopting acetone as a negligibly reactive VOC industries will be able to take advantage
of and benefit from this possible shift in product contents.

I.U.    Adopted February 15, 1996
Revision to Part A, Section II.E.1 APEN Deferral for Utility and Non-Utility Boilers

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, CRS 1793, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The current provisions of Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.E.1., were designed to
postpone reporting of non-criteria reportable pollutants by sources such as utility and
non-utility industrial boilers and small municipal generators pending the results of
ongoing studies being conducted by EPA pursuant to Section 112(n) of the federal
Clean Air Act. EPA was directed by Congress to complete those studies within three
years after enactment of the federal act, i.e., by November 15, 1993; however, EPA has
yet to do so.

During the Commission's last deliberations on this subject, it was stated that if EPA
could not meet its deadline, then the Commission would revisit this deadline. Both the
Commission and the regulated community were hopeful that EPA would be able to finish
its work by the fall of 1995 so sufficient time was available for utilities to meet the
December 31, 1995 deadline.

Specific Authority

Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority to the Commission to identify APEN reporting
requirements. There currently are no federal reporting requirements concerning
emissions of non-criteria reportable pollutants (NCRPs) or hazardous air pollutants


                                                                                          477
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(HAPs) from boilers. The current state regulations exceed federal regulatory
requirements with respect to APEN reporting of emissions.

Purpose

A short postponement of the original deadline serves a significant dual purpose and
both the state and the regulated community benefit from a deferral in this instance. The
postponement avoids forcing an uneconomic and non-beneficial compliance
requirement at this time on the regulated community. Since there are no compliance
obligations respecting HAP emissions from boilers, either in effect or proposed, EPA
and Division interpretations provide that an applicant for a Title V operating permit need
only list - not estimate quantities of emission of - an application for an operating permit.
This revision is administrative in nature, and is not intended to affect air emissions.

I.V.    Adopted March 21, 1996
Revisions to Parts A, B & C for Insignificant Activities (Parties: Air Pollution
Control Division, Colorado Association of Commerce & Industry and the Colorado
Utilities Coalition for Clean Air Division - Part A, Section I.B.9.a.; Part A, Sections
II.D.1.kk., II.D.4.a, II.D.4.b.(iii) & II.D.4.b.(vi); Part C, II.E.3.kk.

Basis

The Division reviews the addition of any requested insignificant activities to Regulation
Number 3 once each year. The additions requested included small remote reservoir
degreasers and torch cutting activities. Both of these items were reviewed by EPA
Region VIII prior to the hearing date and given verbal approval.

The degreaser exemption provides that degreasers not using any chemicals covered by
a Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standard and meeting the definition
of small remote reservoir are not required to submit an APEN to the Division. The torch
cutting exemption clarifies the status of torch cutting as an exempt activity.

Authority

The specific authority for this regulatory amendment is contained in §25-7-114.1(2),
C.R.S., which requires the Commission to exempt those sources or categories of
sources, which it determines to be of minor significance from the requirement than an


                                                                                          478
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

air pollutant emission notice is filed. Section 25-7-114.6(1), C.R.S., requires that the
Commission designate those classes of minor or insignificant sources of air pollution
which are exempt from the requirement for an emission notice or the payment of an
emission notice filing fee because of their negligible impact upon air quality.

Purpose

This rule change provides some clarification and additions to the APEN exemption list
for those sources that the Division believes to be of minor significance.

Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry - Part A, Section II.D.1.ttt; Part C,
Section II.E.3.nnn.

Basis

The Division reviews the addition of any requested insignificant activities to Regulation
Number 3 once each year. The Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry (CACI)
requested the addition of emergency power generators with limitations based on the
size or hours of operation. The revisions rely on EPA guidance regarding emergency
power generators.

Authority

The specific authority for this regulatory amendment is contained in C.R.S §25-7-
114.1(2), which requires the Commission to exempt those sources or categories of
sources, which it determines to be of minor significance from the requirement that an air
pollutant emission notice be filed. C.R.S. §25-7-114.6(1) requires that the Commission
designate those classes of minor or insignificant sources of air pollution that are exempt
from the requirement for an emission notice or the payment of an emission notice filing
fee because of their negligible impact on air quality.

Purpose

This rule change provides an addition to the APEN exemption list and clarification of the
insignificant activities list for emergency power generators that are of minor significance
base on size and/or hours of operation.




                                                                                           479
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                         5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Colorado Utilities Coalition for Clean Air - Part A, Section II.D.1.aaa.(i), (ii); sss.(1).iv to
vii; uuu; vvv; www; xxx; yyy; zzz; aaaa.(i), (ii); Part C, II.E.3.aaa.(i), (ii), xxx.(1).iv to vii;
yyy; zzz; aaaa; bbbb; cccc; dddd; eeee.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The current provisions of Regulation Number 3., Part A and Part C both contain lists of
activities and sources considered to be “insignificant” or exempt from reporting
requirements. On December 29, 1995, the Commission proposed revisions to its
existing Regulation Number 3, Parts A and C. Alternative proposals were submitted by
members of the public, and after consultation, were endorsed by the Division.

Specific Authority

Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority to the Commission to identify APEN reporting
requirements. Further, the rulemaking authority of the Commission is found in Sections
25-7-105 to 109 CRS, as amended. The regulations of the Commission currently
contain lists of activities and sources exempt from APEN and reporting requirements.
On July 10, 1995, the U.S. EPA issued a White Paper designed to streamline and
simplify the development of Part 70, Title V permit applications. The White Paper
explains that Part 70 provides permitting authorities considerable flexibility in defining
certain activities or sources as “insignificant” upon proper showing of such. The White
Paper itself contains substantial lists of activities or sources that are insignificant for
reporting purposes.

Purpose

The addition of the following sources or activities to existing APEN exemption and
reporting requirements serves a significant dual purpose and both the state and
regulated community benefit from the alternate proposals. The revision of existing
regulation avoids forcing an uneconomic and non-beneficial compliance requirement on
the regulated community. Several of the following activities or sources are on federal



                                                                                                 480
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

lists as “insignificant,” as well as those of neighboring states. These revisions are
administrative in nature, and are not intended to affect air emissions.

Non-road Internal Combustion Engines:

Machinery utilized by the construction and service industries such as various types of
pumps, light plants, compressors, and generators are powered by various sizes of
internal combustion engines. Most are relatively small. Some emergency equipment
such as fire pumps are powered by larger engines, but are operated infrequently. The
exemptions listed identify those within this category that have insignificant emissions.
This exemption is consistent with other exemptions in the regulation (see, for example,
Subsections k. and l.). As a practical matter, APENS have not been required from most
of these machines in the past. The sizes of most of these engines are comparable to
the thousands of light and heavy trucks (gasoline and diesel powered), which travel the
roads in this state without any reporting requirements.

The EPA proposal of May 17, 1990 (58 Fed. Reg. 28809) and the EPA study it
references contains useful findings. It exempts all spark-ignition (gasoline, propane and
natural gas powered) engines. On page 28816 of the Federal Register notice, EPA finds
that it did not propose manufacturing standards for spark-ignition engines because little
to no emission benefit would be achieved for testing, record keeping and reporting
requirements on these engines. Cost burdens industry would have to bear would not be
reasonable. It also found that test procedures have not been demonstrated to be
capable of accurately predicting the levels of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and
particulate matter emissions generated by these engines in actual use. In addition, the
economics and failure problems associated with gasoline-powered engines dictate that
relatively small sizes of gasoline engines are used for the light commercial equipment.
As a result, all spark-ignition engines should be exempt from APEN reporting and
classified as an insignificant activity.

The EPA study found that it could also exempt engines located on a trailer or truck bed.
These engines are relatively small (dictated by trailer size and carrying capacity
limitations) and power light commercial equipment, such as welders, compressors and
generators, see page 28815 of the Federal Register notice.


                                                                                        481
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Larger machines are typically powered by diesel engines of varying sizes. A review of
emission factor data from AP-42 supports a Division of diesel-powered engines into
three categories for APEN exemption purposes. Using emission factors from AP-42,
expected emissions from a 175 horsepower diesel engine operating 24 hours per day, 7
days per week, 52 weeks per year at a load factor of 0.5 would present a “worst case”
estimate under the 8760 hours per year “potential to emit” methodology. The following
emissions are calculated:

       -0.5 ton per year of carbon monoxide
       -0.2 ton per year of hydrocarbons
       -0.2 ton per year of particular matter
       -2.5 ton per year of nitrogen oxides
       -0.2 ton per year of sulfur oxides

A 300 horsepower engine could operate up to 3 hours per day, or 1095 hours per year,
and have the same emissions as the 176 horsepower engines. Similarly, an engine up
to 750 horsepower could operate 1 hour per day, or 365 hours per year and have the
same emissions as the 175 horsepower engine class.

This approach is consistent with the approach taken by the EPA in its Guidance
Document for “Calculating Potential to Emit for Emergency Generators,” issued
September 6, 1995. There, the EPA agreed that the use of 8,760 hours per year for
calculating the potential to emit for emergency generators did not control. Instead, EPA
recommended that the potential to emit be based upon an estimate of the maximum
amount of hours the generators could operate based on a case-by-case basis where
justified by the source owner or permitting authority. Surface water storage
impoundment of non-potable water and storm water evaporation ponds: Chemical
analysis and observation of these sources has consistently demonstrated that they are
a negligible emission source of any regulated air pollutant.

Non-potable water pipeline vents:

Proper flow through of non-potable water maintains these sources as insignificant.
Proper flow keeps the water in line from becoming septic and therefore a negligible
source of any regulated air pollutant.


                                                                                      482
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

1.       Steam vents and safety release valves:

Safety release valve vents enable immediate reduction of pressure in steam lines.
Emissions out of the safety valves consist only of pure water vapor.

2.       Deaerator/vacuum pump exhausts:

These are negligible sources of emission of any regulated air pollutant.

3.       Seal and lubricating oil systems for steam turbine electric generators:

Atmospheric vents exist in coal-fired utility turbine lube oil systems enable removal of
water vapor from lube oil return lines from the turbine and generator bearings. This
enables atmospheric pressure operation of lube oil storage tanks. These are not
storage systems, but actual service operations. Calculations reveal that these activities
would emit less than one ton of VOC's a year, per facility.

4.       Venting of natural gas lines for safety purposes:

To enable the safe delivery of fuel gas to the utility boilers, and provide the ability to
safely purge natural gas from fuel lines within a generation building, vent lines exist to
allow the intermittent discharge of natural gas to safe areas away from personnel and
ignition sources.

The intermittent discharge of natural gas would occur during start-up and shutdown of
the natural gas supply to generating unit burners to purge air or natural gas from the
piping system within the generation building. These activities are not expected to emit
more than one ton of VOC's or more than 110 pounds of hexane a year.

Sulfuric acid storage tanks not to exceed 10,500 gallons capacity and sodium hydroxide
tanks:

Sulfuric acid and sodium hydroxide, used to control pH, are stored in tank systems
vented to the atmosphere. These vents will exhaust vapor from a tank system through
vapor extraction and contraction because of changes in temperature and barometric
pressure. These losses, which are referred to as breathing losses, occur without any
significant change in liquid level in the tank, and are negligible.




                                                                                             483
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Waste lubricating oil storage tanks not larger than 40,000 gallons and lubricating oil-
conditioning systems:

Low volatility waste turbine and motor lube oil generated by utility plant machinery and
mobile heavy equipment is stored in tanks. These tanks are equipped with atmospheric
vents on the tops of the tanks. Emissions through these vents are expected to occur
during the filling and emptying of the tanks. These emissions contain trace amounts of
VOC's, with no other reportable emissions expected. Based on the low annual
throughput of these tanks, emissions are insignificant, assuming that the tanks are
emptied approximately five times per year or less.

Colorado Utilities Coalition for Clean Air - Part A, Section II.E.1

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies 24-4- with
the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 103(4) for
adopted or modified regulations.

Basis

The current provisions of Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.E.1, were designed to
postpone reporting of non-criteria reportable pollutants by sources such as utility and
non-utility industrial boilers and small municipal generators pending the results of
ongoing studies being conducted by EPA pursuant to Section 112(n) of the federal
Clean Air Act. EPA was directed by Congress to complete those studies within three
years after enactment of the federal act, i.e., by November 15, 1993; however, EPA has
yet to do so.

Both the Commission and the regulated community were hopeful that EPA would be
able to finish its work by the fall of 1995 so sufficient time was available for utilities to
meet the original December 31, 1995 deadline. The EPA did not meet that deadline, and
the Commission granted a deferral until June 30, 1996. The EPA study is now the
subject of further delay due to one of the individual constituent hazardous air pollutant
studies and the extensive federal government furloughs in both late 1995 and early
1996 that substantially contributed to further delay the study's progress.

Specific Authority



                                                                                            484
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Section 25-7-114.1 provides authority to the Commission to identify APEN reporting
requirements. There currently are no federal reporting requirements concerning
emissions of non-criteria reportable pollutants (NCRPs) or hazardous air pollutants
(HAPs) from boilers. The current state regulations exceed federal regulatory
requirements with respect to APEN reporting of emissions.

Purpose

A short postponement of the amended deadline serves a significant dual purpose and
both the state and the regulated community benefit from a deferral in this instance. The
postponement avoids forcing an uneconomic and non-beneficial compliance
requirement at this time on the regulated community. Since there are no compliance
obligations respecting HAP emissions from boilers, either in effect or proposed, EPA
and Division interpretations provide that an applicant for a Title V operating permit need
only list - not estimate quantities of emissions of - HAPs reasonable believed to be
contained in the boiler emissions in an application for an operating permit. This revision
is administrative in nature, and is not intended to affect air emissions.

I.W.    Adopted March 21, 1996
Revisions to Part B, Section III.D.1.f, Section IV.C.1.e, Section IV.C.1.f, and Section
IV.C.

The changes to Regulation Number 3 were adopted in order to make it clear that the
redesignation of the Denver metropolitan area as an attainment maintenance area for
ozone does not change the requirement for gasoline stations in the Denver metropolitan
area are to obtain a construction permit.

Section III.D.1.f appears to imply that, upon such redesignation, gasoline stations in the
Denver area would not be required to obtain a permit because that area would become
an attainment area. However, Section III.D.5 goes on to provide that such exemptions
do not apply because gasoline stations are subject to the RACT requirements of
Regulation Number 7, Section VI.B.3.b. The purpose of the revisions is simply to make
it clear from the text of Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.1.f alone that
gasoline stations in the Denver area are still required to obtain a construction permit.
The revisions to Sections IV.C.1 and IV.C.4 were necessary to ensure that permits for


                                                                                           485
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

de minimis exemptions from, and alternative means of compliance with, the
requirements of Regulation Number7 are subject to review and comment by the public
and by EPA. Such comment and review is necessary because the Sections I.A. and II.D
of Regulation Number 7 provide the agency with the authority to revise the requirements
that apply to a source without revising the SIP. The SIP requirements were developed
and adopted following review and comment by EPA and the public. It follows that any
change in those requirements with respect to any source or category of sources should
also be subject to such public comment and review. The specific statutory authority to
amend this regulation pertaining to exemptions from permit requirements is set out at §
25-7-114.2. Further statutory authority can be found in the Commission's authority to
redesignate the area because such redesignation must include an approvable
maintenance plan. The specific statutory authority to promulgate the rules necessary for
redesignation is set out in § § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I) and (2); -106(1)(a); -107 (1) and (2.5);
and -301.

This revision to Regulation Number 3 is not intended to reduce air pollution and will
have no regulatory effect on any person, facility or activity.

For clarification, the Commission adopted these regulation revisions as follows:

   Regulation Revision                           Ozone SIP and Maintenance Plan

   Part B, Section III.D.1.f                     Exists in Appendix C of the Ozone
                                                 Maintenance Plan to become a part of
                                                 that document approved March 21, 1996

   Part B, Section IV.C.1.e and f; Section       Adopted as subsequent regulation
   IV.C.4                                        revisions to be submitted to the Governor
                                                 and EPA Separately and concurrently as
                                                 a revision to the SIP (and Maintenance
                                                 Plan).




                                                                                        486
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.X.    Adopted June 20, 1996
Revisions to Part A, Section V.C.1.f (Fees Correction)

Basis

This revision corrects an erroneous regulation change requested by the Division in
response to an EPA letter of September 19, 1994, which provided comments on the
revisions to Regulation Number 3 for the operating permit program. The comment made
by EPA was for clarification, not a requirement that the State should not charge for
fugitive emissions. The change requested by the Division in 1995 included the term
fugitive emissions in the paragraph of exclusions from the definition of regulated
pollutant. Because of this change, the Division's authority under the statute to charge
annual fees for fugitive emissions became confused which affected the Division's ability
to cover its operating costs through fees. The regulation text also no longer conformed
to Section 25-7-114.7, as revised in the 1996 legislative session.

Authority

Section 25-7-114.6.(3), C.R.S., requires that the revenues from fees collected by the
Division approximate the annual appropriations to the Division to carry out its duties with
respect to stationary sources. Section 25-7-114.7, C.R.S., requires imposition of an
annual emission fee on stationary sources, and defines what is a regulated pollutant for
purposes of these fees.

Purpose

These changes address an erroneous March 1995 revision made with respect to the
charging of fees for fugitive emissions. The revision specifically exempted fugitive
emissions and would significantly reduce the Division's ability to collect fees sufficient to
cover duties with respect to stationary sources. In 1992 the General Assembly
prohibited imposition of annual fees for fugitive dust or fugitive emissions as those terms
were defined at the time in “Commission rule I.B.1 of regulation number 3, 5 CCR 1001-
5.” That rule defined only fugitive dust and the March 1995 regulatory revision
inadvertently addressed fees on fugitive emissions as well. This rule conforms the
regulation to statute, and eliminates any ambiguity between the two. Moreover, during



                                                                                         487
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

the 1996 legislative session, the legislature in HB1271 amended Section 25-7-114.7(1)
to clarify the authority of the Commission to assess fees for fugitive emissions. The
Commission intends that all forms of “fugitive dust,” regardless of whether the dust is of
a size or substance to adversely affect public health or welfare, is excluded from the
definition of “regulated pollutant”, for purposes of annual fees.

The Commission determines that these revisions are administrative in nature and are
not intended to reduce air pollution.

I.Y.   Adopted June 20, 1996
Revisions to Part A, Section I.B.9, 59, Section V.C.12; Part B, Section III.D.2; Part
C, Section II.A.1.b, Section VI.A, E, H.3 and Section XII.A.1;Appendices B, C and D
for Hydrogen Sulfide

Background

The Division requests that the Commission adopt changes to Parts A and C and the
Appendices within Regulation Number 3 to better reflect current EPA implementation of
the Title V operating permit program. These changes include: (1) noting that a source
major only for Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) is not required to obtain an Operating
Permit in Part C; (2) deleting the Hazardous Air Pollutant reference beside the pollutant
Hydrogen Sulfide (H2S) in Appendices B, C, and D of Regulation Number 3 to reflect
the federal delisting of this pollutant, and; (3) expanding the definition of “applicable
requirement” in Part A to clarify that EPA-issued PSD permits are applicable
requirements of the Operating Permit Program. A discussion of each of these changes
follows.

The current notation under Regulation Number 3, Part C Section II.A, General
Considerations, lists all major sources as being required to obtain Operating Permits.
The EPA has issued a written guidance document indicating that the definition of
regulated air pollutant for purposes of Title V applies only to emissions of PM-10, and
not TSP. The current requirements reflected in Part C, Section II.A.1.b does not reflect
the federal program requirements.




                                                                                            488
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Currently, H2S is reflected as a Hazardous Air Pollutant in Appendices B, C, and D. The
EPA stated that the inclusion of H2S on the federal list was a typographical error and
removed the pollutant from the federal list. As a result of the reference to H2S as a
hazardous air pollutant in the Appendices, sources emitting H2S have been charged
annual fees for HAPs and sources major for H2S emissions could be required to get an
Operating Permit.

The current definition of applicable requirement in Part A, Section I.B.9.a does not
provide authority for EPA-issued PSD permits to be incorporated into Operating Permits.
The definition of “applicable requirement” in Part 70 of the federal program includes
permits issued by EPA. The State needs this regulatory change to make the rules
consistent with the federal law. Currently, regulated entities subject to these
requirements can obtain a permit from EPA or can voluntarily have the requirement
placed in their Title V permits, but this situation does not support the intent behind the
Title V program.

Specific Authority

The specific authority for changes to this regulation is found in the Colorado Pollution
Prevention and Control Act. Section 25-7-105(12) provides authority to promulgate
regulations, which are necessary to implement the minimum elements of Title V. Section
25-7-103(1.5) allows the Commission to define air pollutant consistent with the federal
act. Section 25-7-114.4(1)(l) and Section 25-7-114.4(3)(a) provide authority for
promulgating regulations for the effective administration of construction and operating
permits, and complying with all applicable requirements for operating permits. Section
25-7-114.5 provides authority for evaluating permit applications to determine whether
operation and emissions comply with all applicable emission control regulations.
Relevant federal law includes 42 U.S.C. Section 7661a(b)(5)(A), and 40 C.F.R. Sections
70.1(b), 70.3, and 70.6(a)(1) regarding applicable requirements. Commission action in
making changes to Regulation Number 3 is taken pursuant to the statutory provisions.

Purpose

The amendments adopted by the Commission add language in Regulation Number 3,
Part C, Section II.A.1.b indicating that a source that is major only for TSP is not required


                                                                                         489
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

to receive an Operating Permit. This amendment ensures conformity with the federal
law.

The amendments delete the reference to Hazardous Air Pollutant noted next to
hydrogen sulfide in Appendices B, C, and D. This ensures consistency with the Federal
delisting and eliminates the potential confusion for sources that will be major only based
on emissions of hydrogen sulfide as a Hazardous Air Pollutant to obtain an Operating
Permit. The amendments expand the definition of applicable requirement in Part A to
include those permits issued by EPA under Part C and Part D of the federal act. This
ensures conformity with the federal law.

The amendments correct a few typographical errors that existed in Regulation Number
3, Parts A, B, and C.

Finally, the amendment to Part C, Section II.A.1.b, regarding TSP, is administrative in
nature and is intended to reflect current EPA policy; it is not intended to reduce air
pollution. The amendment to Part A, Section I.B.9.a, regarding the definition of
applicable requirement, is administrative in nature and reflects the requirements of Part
70. This action regarding the definition of applicable requirement maximizes air quality
benefits in the most cost effective manner by enabling sources to incorporate federally
issued PSD permit into their Operating Permit. Thereby, these sources will only be
reporting to one enforcement authority. These revisions applicable to Part C, are not to
be submitted as part of the State Implementation Plan.

I.Z.    Adopted October 24, 1996
Revisions to Generic Part A, Section V, (with Regulation Number 5, Emissions
Trading and Banking

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110, 25-7-
110.5 and 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

Basis




                                                                                         490
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Division has worked with the emissions trading and banking subcommittee to
develop Regulation Number 5 and revisions to Regulation Number 3 for the purpose of
implementing an EPA-approvable emissions trading program.

The subcommittee has developed a trading rule combining elements from the existing
EPA guidance and the prior Commission rule. The subcommittee spent a great deal of
time discussing the issues around the possible uses for credits, how credits could be
certified, and how they should be traded and tracked.

Emission reduction credits are intended to be granted only for reductions beyond
compliance levels that are actual, quantifiable, surplus and enforceable. This rule is not
intended to impose additional control limitations on sources. The rule does impose
requirements to ensure that these basic criteria are met in order to guarantee that the
source flexibility afforded by this program does not occur at the expense of air quality.

This rule is a revision to the SIP done only under the Commission's general authority.
Thus, the trading and banking rule will not be state enforceable until after legislative
review. Section 25-7-133(2), C.R.S. Additionally, because EPA must approve this
change into the SIP, the Commission finds it appropriate to delay the effective date of
these revisions until EPA approval as a SIP revision. This will provide the sources that
might wish to participate the assurance that the rule is approved and that the credits are
useable prior to the implementation of the program. The existing trading provisions in
Regulation Number 3 will remain in effect until the new trading rules are approved by
EPA. These constraints on the effective date of these revisions are reflected in the rule
text approved by the Commission. In addition, in order to avoid confusion about what
portions of the regulations are effective until EPA approval of the SIP change, the parts
of Regulation Number 3 that will be repealed are printed in italics.

State implementation plans are to include, among other things, enforceable emissions
limitations and other control measures, means or techniques to meet the requirements
of the Clean Air Act. These are to include economic incentives such as fees, marketable
permits, and auctions of emissions rights. 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2)(A). These regulation
revisions are being submitted as a SIP revision pursuant to the foregoing Clean Air Act
requirements.


                                                                                           491
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The following issues were identified by the subcommittee and noticed by the
Commission for further consideration. The Commission discussed and resolved these
issues in the course of this rulemaking proceeding and makes the following findings
regarding these issues.

Issue: Once used, does a permanent emission reduction credit (ERC) ever expire?
Some believe that an ERC once used, even if from a permanent reduction, should
expire after some period (e.g., 20 years).

Conclusion: The Commission, based on the experience in the previous trading rules,
decided that the permanent credits should not expire after they are put into use.

5.     Issue: Should a decrease in electrical demand be usable to generate emission
       reduction credits?

Conclusion: Because of the existence and operation of the national electrical grid
system, the Commission believes that it would be far too difficult to verify that there had
been a decrease in demand (a decrease in actual emissions) and not a variation in the
grid structure, and therefore at this time finds it is inappropriate to allow a decrease in
demand to generate ERCs.

6.     Issue: As the proposed rule is written, inter-pollutant trading is allowed on a case-
       by-case basis subject to Division approval. The subcommittee and the Division
       recognized that a universal or standard protocol for approving such trades would
       be desirable, but that no officially approved protocols for any inter-pollutant
       trades exist.

Conclusion: The Commission agrees that there is currently insufficient scientific
information available to support inter-pollutant trades in most cases. In order to ensure
that the Division staff is not placed in the position of having to develop information and
protocol to support an inter-pollutant trade proposal, the Commission finds that the
burden of proving the acceptability of an inter-pollutant trade shall be placed on the
source.

Because of concerns expressed by the EPA that the protocol for inter-pollutant trades
has not yet been developed, the language of VI.B. was amended to allow proponents of



                                                                                          492
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

such trades the opportunity to make their case to the Division and EPA for approval.
This amendment attempts to address the EPA concern.

7.     Issue: The proposed rule states that temporary credits must be credited and
       traded within the same “season” for seasonal pollutants. Should temporary
       credits be allowed to be traded from a season of lower concern to a season of
       higher concern?

Conclusion: The Commission finds that the use of temporary credits should be restricted
to the same season in which they were generated, or a season of lower concern. This
will help mitigate any significant increases in seasons that may cause a violation of the
NAAQS.

Issue: At this time no internal provisions exist for program development and
implementation. How should the cost of the program implementation and development
be addressed?

Conclusion: The Commission acknowledges that the Division will monitor the activity in
the trading program and, if needed, legislative fee authority will be sought. Fees for
permit changes required by this rule will be charged pursuant to Regulation Number 3.
Nevertheless, the Commission acknowledges that resources are not currently available
and funding may be needed for this program.

8.     Issue: Should the rule contain procedures or criteria specific to trading
       Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs)? The subcommittee and the Division agreed not
       to address this issue of HAPs in the proposed rule.

Conclusion: The Commission is concerned that use of ERCs for criteria pollutants that
contain or consist of HAPs could unduly increase the risks to communities and the
environment in the vicinity of the credit-using source. Assessing relative risk is difficult,
time-consuming and highly fact-specific to a particular source and trade. In order to
address this concern, the Commission adopted Section VI.G.8 that requires that the
HAPs reduced to generate the ERC must be of equal or greater toxicity than the HAPs
contained in the emissions for which the ERC will be used in lieu of satisfying an
applicable requirement. Section VI.G.8 does not operate as an emissions control



                                                                                           493
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

regulation on any HAPs, but is simply a limitation on participation in the trading
program.

9.     Issue: How is the base emission rate set? In order to show the level of actual
       emissions at a source before reductions for which credits are claimed, a period
       representative of normal operating conditions must be used.

Conclusion: The Commission adopts provisions that require using the last twelve
months' actual emission rate unless the last twelve months are not representative. The
source may propose to the Division to use any consecutive twelve months in the last ten
years as more representative of normal unit operations. This allows most sources to use
a period, which the Commission believes is likely to be representative of normal
operating conditions. Where the source can show that the period is not representative,
the rule allows source flexibility in determining their pre-reduction actual emissions.

10.    Issue: Should the Commission give authority to the Division to allow discounts
       from the ten percent contribution of emission reductions for air quality benefits for
       generators that participate in a voluntary pollution prevention program or other
       voluntary “beyond-compliance” programs? Should a generator be allowed to
       contribute only five percent of its their emissions reductions for air quality benefits
       as an incentive for participation in pollution prevention programs?

Conclusion: The Commission agreed to provide such flexibility to the Division for
generators that have voluntarily adopted comprehensive and facility-wide environmental
programs such as a Pollution Prevention Program or other similar voluntary “beyond-
compliance” programs.

11.    Issue: Should ERCs be used to satisfy Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
       or Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) requirements where a source
       triggers PSD or nonattainment New Source Review and must install BACT or
       LAER control technologies? Recent reports in the national press have indicated
       that EPA is giving serious consideration to allowing ERC use for BACT as it
       attempts to move away from command-and-control approaches to more
       contemporary market approaches.




                                                                                          494
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Conclusion: The Commission believes that ERCs may appropriately be used in lieu of
the emissions reductions which would otherwise be achieved by application of the
BACT technology requirements in situations where such technology requirements are
not cost-effective or exacerbate other pollutant emissions, and the use of an ERC would
achieve the same purposes more efficiently. In such instances, it will be incumbent on
the source to demonstrate that such a situation exists. In any case, however, the other
PSD provisions and required analyses would apply to the source. PSD requirements
are performed on future allowable emission rates. Because of concerns about the use
of ERCs for BACT requirements, although the Commission has allowed ERCs to be
used to meet BACT requirements in limited instances, it believes that this provision
should only be applied prospectively for new BACT requirements and not to allow a
source to remove BACT where it has already been installed. The Commission
concludes that use of ERCs in lieu of emissions reductions from LAER is not
appropriate because of the potential impacts on nonattainment areas.

12.   Issue: How will the local effect of “hot spot” pollutant trades be analyzed to
      prevent a local criteria pollutant exceedance due to emission credit transactions?
      Should the rule require modeling of criteria, pollutants to assure there are no
      exceedances of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards? Conclusion: The
      Commission adopts the language in Section VI.G.7 of Regulation Number 5
      requiring modeling for all trades in order to ensure that trades do not cause or
      contribute to a NAAQS exceedance, an increment exceedance, or any violation
      of a required SIP provision. As that Section reflects, the source may request that
      the Division waive the modeling requirement if the source can document to the
      Division's satisfaction that the trade has a negligible impact.

13.   Issue: How and who modifies the conformity budget for intersector trading? With
      mobile to stationary source trades, does the emission budget increase after the
      life of the credit has expired, and how is this accomplished?

Conclusion: The Commission has provided for ERCs to be available to satisfy
conformity requirements in accordance with the federal rules. The Transportation
Conformity requirements (40 CFR Parts 51 and 93) presently allow for trades among



                                                                                         495
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

emissions budgets where either a SIP revision or a SIP establishes mechanisms for
such trades. 40 CFR §93.124(c). The Colorado emissions trading rule is intended to be
a SIP revision establishing such a “mechanism” to allow for such trades.

The Commission recognizes that, if mobile source emissions rise above the mobile
source emissions budget in the state implementation plan, a plan revision may be
necessary as otherwise required by state and federal law.

14.    Issue: What becomes of the “buffer” between a credit-generating source's
       potential to emit and its actual emissions before the reduction for which the credit
       is claimed? Does the generator get to keep a portion, all, or none of it?

Conclusion: The Commission finds that methods exist to allow a source to retain the
operating flexibility from a pre-reduction “buffer.” When a source wants such flexibility, it
may claim credits for less than the entire reduction in emissions accomplished; the
difference constitutes a new “buffer.” A source may use temporary credits to meet short-
term operating needs.

These methods retain flexibility for the source without relying on “paper reductions.” The
Commission concludes that it is imperative that reductions for which credits are granted
must be actual reductions. Allowing a source to retain a buffer from within the credits
granted, as proposed by the Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry, would
result in credits for “reductions” which did not actually occur. This result is unacceptable,
particularly because sources determine their own permitted emissions levels when they
file their Air Pollution Emission Notices.

For example, a source with a ninety-five ton per year permitted level that actually emits
fifty tons reduces its emissions to forty tons. The source should take a new permit with a
level between forty and fifty tons (e.g., forty-five tons) so that the source has a five-ton
buffer. The source may then fluctuate its emissions between forty and forty-five tons
without violating the permit, and generate temporary credits for any emissions
reductions below forty-five tons.

In order to ensure that reductions are actual, an ERC-generating source will not be able
to increase its permitted emissions in the absence of a process or control modification.



                                                                                          496
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The source cannot, for example, simply file an APEN with higher emissions estimates
and thereby increase its permitted emissions. The effect would be to allow emissions for
which credits were already granted, resulting in “paper reductions.” This consequence is
unacceptable.

15.   Issue: Should a closer relationship be established between emission trades and
      the various pollutant-specific SIP elements? With regard to the spatial distribution
      of emissions, the rule as proposed did not acknowledge any sub-regional
      emission budgets, dispersion modeling requirements, or other spatial
      considerations contained in attainment and maintenance demonstrations for
      specific SIP elements.

Conclusion: The original proposed regulation did not have a modeling requirement for
ERC use. The Division subsequently proposed that modeling be required prior to an
ERC use unless the source requests that such modeling be waived and the source can
show that the ERC use would have a “negligible” impact. The Colorado Association of
Commerce and Industry expressed a concern that the Division would require costly or
unnecessary modeling in most cases. This concern stems from the lack of definition of
what is “negligible” in the judgment of the Division. The Commission believes that
modeling should only be required where the location or circumstances of the ERC use
would reasonably be expected to cause or contribute to a NAAQS violation, an
increment exceedance, or violation of a SIP provision such as near a “hot spot” in a
nonattainment area or where ambient conditions are within 5% of any applicable
standard. The Commission, based on the explanation offered by the Division, believes
that the modeling required by the rule as adopted will adequately address this issue.

16.   Issue: Should the emission trading rule clarify whether trades can take place
      among different air sheds/Air Quality Control Regions.

Conclusion: The Commission adopts two levels of limitations on the geographic scope
of trading. First, trades are limited to sources within the same nonattainment area or
from a source in a nonattainment area to one in an attainment area. Second, all trades
must be between sources within the same PM-10 PSD areas. These limitations are




                                                                                         497
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

intended to avoid excessive impacts on local communities and Class I areas from long-
distance trades.

In addition to the issues discussed, the Commission also considered concerns about
granting ERCs for emission reductions that occurred in the past. This rule allows a
source to use credits generated under the old rule and to seek credit certification for
reductions, which occurred prior to adoption of this rule. However, the Commission
wants to emphasize that past emission reductions, which have been used to
demonstrate attainment or reasonable further progress for SIP purposes are not eligible
to qualify as ERCs.

The Commission recognizes that use of ERCs in lieu of compliance with an emission
limitation may raise public concerns in the vicinity of the credit-using source. For this
reason, the rule anticipates that notice to the Division will be required prior to use of
ERCs. Permanent ERC use must be accomplished through a permit change. Temporary
ERC use may occur only after an APEN is filed with the Division. Each of these
documents is available to the public. Notices of ERC use will be published on the ERC
Trading Network by the Division. The provisions of Regulation Number 3 requiring and
allowing public notice and comment of proposed permits and modifications will also
apply to permit actions to approve use of ERCs. The Commission believes that use of
the Division's discretion to seek public comment needs to be supplemented in order to
provide sufficient information to the public regarding proposed uses of ERCs.
Accordingly, the Commission has included a requirement that the Division notify local
governments in the affected area when the trade will result in the use of ERCs, which
would exceed the threshold for, or otherwise trigger, public notice and comment
pursuant to Section IV.C.1 of Part B, Regulation Number 3. The Commission anticipates
that local governments will be able to use this notice to schedule informational meetings
for citizens, which Commission members and appropriate Division staff will be able to
attend. The Commission also emphasizes that the Division should exercise appropriate
discretion to provide public notice and comment for trades that involve HAPs, which
would be implemented by notifying the local government pursuant to the process
described.



                                                                                            498
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission elected to preclude trading of elemental lead because of that
pollutant's particular characteristics and modified the definition of criteria pollutant for
the purposes of this regulation.

The Commission included Section IV.A.1.d. in this regulation to ensure that ERCs are
granted only for real overall reductions in emissions. This provision ensures that
reductions will be creditable only if the emissions are not replaced in the airshed by
another generator in a business of like kind. In order to assure that this program does
not grant credit for “paper” reductions, the rule prohibits generating ERCs where this
business shift will replace emissions within the same airshed. This determination will be
made on a case-by-case, fact-specific basis.

Specific Statutory Authority

These regulation revisions are adopted under the general authority of the Commission
found in Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S. and are consistent with 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2)(A).

Purpose

This rule was proposed in order to provide the maximum flexibility for sources in
meeting the state and federal requirements outlined under the possible uses for credits.
The Commission makes the following findings in regards to the adoption of this
regulation:

1.     The Commission has considered, and has based its decision, on the reasonably
       available, validated, reviewed and sound scientific methodologies and
       information made available by interested parties.

2.     Where these revisions are not administrative in nature, the record supports the
       conclusion that the provisions adopted will result in a demonstrable reduction in
       air pollution. This reduction is accomplished through the retirement of 10% of the
       achieved reduction in emissions.

3.     The revisions selected maximize the air quality benefits of the emissions
       standards that apply. The revisions selected are the most cost-effective based on
       the documents submitted by the parties under Section 25-7-110.5, and provide
       the regulated community with flexibility in meeting emissions limitations. Although


                                                                                           499
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        the requirement for increased emissions modeling may impose additional costs,
        the Commission believes this requirement is necessary to ensure that no
        violations of air standards will occur as a result of using ERCs.

I.AA. Adopted November 21, 1996
Revisions to Appendices B, C

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulations 3, 7 and the Common Provisions establish lists of Negligibly Reactive
Volatile Organic Compounds (NRVOCs). The revisions adopted update the list of
NRVOCs so that the state list remains consistent with the federal list. Additionally
because perchloroethylene will no longer be listed as a VOC in Regulation Number 7,
Section XII, Control of VOC Emissions from Dry Cleaning Facilities using
Perchloroethylene as a Solvent, is being deleted.

Regulation Number 8 and 3 list the federal Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). In the June
8, 1996 Federal Register the EPA removed Caprolactam (CAS 105-60-2) from the
federal list of Hazardous Air Pollutants. The conforming changes in Regulation Number
3 Appendices B, C and D have been made to keep the list of federal HAPs in
Regulation Number 3 consistent with the federal list. The list of HAPs in Regulation
Number 8 has been removed and a reference to the list in Regulation Number 3 has
been added.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provides the authority for the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission to adopt and modify Regulations pertaining to
organic solvents and photochemical substances. Section 25-7-109(2)(f) and 25-7-
109(2)(g), C.R.S., grant the Commission the authority to promulgate regulations
pertaining to organic solvents and photochemical substances. Sections 25-7-
105(1)(I)(b) and 25-7-109(2)(h) provide authority to adopt emission control regulations


                                                                                       500
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and emission control regulations relating to HAPs respectively. The Commission's
action is taken pursuant to authority granted and procedures set forth in Sections 25-7-
105, 25-7-109, and 25-7-110, C.R.S.

Purpose

These revisions to Regulations Number 3, 7, 8 and the Common Provisions are
intended to update the state lists of NRVOCs, the Ozone SIP, and HAPs for consistency
with the federal lists.

I.BB. Adopted November 18, 1999
Revisions to Part C Incorporation by Reference of New and Revised Federal
Regulations Concerning Compliance Assurance Monitoring (40 C.F.R. Parts 64,
70, and 71) into Colorado Air Quality Control Commission Regulation Number 3,
Part C, Addition of Section XIV.

Background

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. (1988), Sections 24-4-103(4)
and (12.5) for adopted or modified regulations.

Pursuant to Section 114 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments (“CAAA”), the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) promulgated new regulations in 40 C.F.R. Part
64 and revised regulations to 40 C.F.R. Parts 70 and 71 to implement compliance
assurance monitoring (“CAM”) for pollutant specific emission units at major stationary
sources of air pollution that are required to obtain Title V operating permits. The
requirements imposed by the CAM rule are separate from the requirements of EPA's
“periodic monitoring” rule found at 40 C.F.R. Section 70.6(a)(3)(i). The periodic
monitoring rule requires that each operating permit contain any emissions monitoring or
test methods already required by an applicable requirement including any “periodic
monitoring sufficient to yield reliable data from the relevant time period that are
representative of the source's compliance with the permit . . . such monitoring shall
assure use of terms, test methods, units, averaging periods, and other statistical




                                                                                        501
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

conventions consistent with the applicable requirement.” See 40 C.F.R. Section
70.6(a)(3)(i)(B) (emphasis added).

Subject to certain exemptions, the new CAM regulations require owners or operators of
such sources to conduct monitoring that satisfies particular criteria established in the
rule to provide a reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable requirements of
the Act. Monitoring requirements contained in the rules focus on emissions units that
rely on pollution control equipment to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
The CAM regulations also provide procedures for coordinating these new requirements
with the Operating Permits Program regulations.

The CAM regulation generally will not require implementation of its requirements for
most units subject to CAM until the first round of Title V permit renewals, which will
generally be five years after initial Title V permit issuance.

The following table reflects the schedule by which CAM plans must be submitted by
owners and operators of affected emissions units:



   Pollutant Specific      CAM Plan Due as part        CAM Plan Due as        CAM Plan Due as
   Emission Unit           of the Operating            part of the            part of the
   (PSEU) Size             Permit INITIAL              Operating Permit       Operating Permit
                           Application                 REVISION               RENEWAL
                                                       Application            Application

   “Large” PSEU            If Title V permit           If a significant       If Title V permit
   (see 40 C.F.R.          application is not          permit revision1 at    application was
   Section 64.5(a))        complete by 4/20/98         an existing Title V    complete before
                           OR if PSEU part of a        source                 4/20/98
                           greenfield permit
                           application after
                           4/20/98




                                                                                           502
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     “Other” PSEU                      Never                                    Never                              Always
     (see 40 C.F.R.
     Section 64.5(b))

1. “significant permit revision” is defined as “significant permit modification” in Colorado Air Quality Control Commission Regulation
Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.36.h. This definition is subject to change when the federal Part 70 revisions are promulgated and
adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission.




                                                                                                                                  503
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In the event of a significant proposed operating permit modification that may trigger the
earlier application of the CAM rule, the rule's provisions only become applicable with
respect to those pollutant specific emission units for which the proposed operating
permit revision is applicable. See 40 C.F.R. Section 64.5(a)(2).

Basis

Regulations to implement these CAAA mandates were originally proposed in 1993 as
the “enhanced monitoring” program. The enhanced monitoring proposal focused on
monitoring air emissions as a means of ensuring source compliance with CAAA
emission limitations and operating permit conditions. The EPA received approximately
2,000 comment letters to the enhanced monitoring proposal. In response to these
comments and through a series of stakeholder meetings, the agency decided to
redesign the Part 64 program. In 1995, the EPA promulgated a revised draft Part 64
rule, which is now known as the CAM rule. The final CAM rule was promulgated on
October 22, 1997.

The Commission heard testimony from members of the public who were concerned that
the implementation of the rule would have the effect of making existing applicable
requirements more stringent. It is the Commission's understanding however that this is
not the purpose nor should be the result of implementation of the CAM rule. In adopting
the CAM rule by reference, the Commission does not intend that existing applicable
requirements become more stringent.

Authority

Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. (1997) provides authority to promulgate regulations that
are necessary to implement the minimum elements of Title V of the Clean Air Act.
Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S. (1997) provides the Commission with the authority to
require testing, monitoring and record keeping. Commission action in promulgating
these regulations is taken pursuant to the statutory provisions. The Commission is not
adopting the CAM rule in this incorporation by reference as part of the Colorado State
Implementation Plan. For that reason, the provisions of Section 25-7-105.1 C.R.S.
(1999) regarding federal enforceability do not apply.




                                                                                         504
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Purpose

Adoption by reference of the Federal CAM regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 64,
and the revisions to 40 C.F.R. Parts 70 and 71 make the regulations enforceable under
Colorado law. Adoption of the regulations will not impose upon sources additional
requirements beyond the minimum required by Federal law, and may benefit the
regulated community by providing sources with up-to-date information.



I.CC. Adopted November 15, 2001
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part B: Concerning Construction Permits,
Including Regulations for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S., and implements Sections 25-7-105(17) and 25-7-212, C.R.S.

Basis

The rule revisions adopted implement the provisions of House Bill 99-1351. Regulation
Number 3 contains permitting, monitoring, reporting, visibility protection, and fee
requirements.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105(17), C.R.S.,
provides the authority for the Commission to hold hearings to approve emission
inventories related to state and federal lands. That subsection also directs the Air
Pollution Control Division to prepare inventories for all state land management agencies
with jurisdiction over state lands. Section 25-7-212, C.R.S., requires federal land
managers to develop a plan for evaluating visibility in mandatory class I federal areas
and to provide to the state an emission inventory for pollutants that affect any
mandatory federal class I area within Colorado. This Section also directs the
Commission to use the inventories to develop control strategies for reducing emissions
within the state of Colorado as a primary component of the visibility long-term


                                                                                       505
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

strategies. The Commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in
Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

In general, HB 99-1351 was intended to provide mechanisms for the state to develop
information important to its efforts to protect and enhance visibility, particularly in
mandatory federal class I areas. This bill specifies the types of information that must be
reported, collected and approved for use in the state implementation plan.

Federal agencies own and administer approximately 36 % of the land in Colorado.
Accordingly, the federal government has jurisdiction over many sources of emissions
within the state. The inventory information developed under this regulation will provide
additional information needed regarding these emissions, as well as those from similar
state lands.

The rule requires that all federal and state lands have emission inventories approved by
the Commission by December 31, 2002 and at least every five years thereafter. The
emission inventories must include emissions in both Colorado and other states that may
affect visibility in mandatory federal Class I areas in Colorado.

House Bill 99-1351 requires the first submittal of inventory information by the federal
land management agencies by December 31, 2001. The Commission anticipates that
the affected federal land managers may rely upon regional inventory information to
satisfy in part the requirements of this rule. The regional inventory development process
is in its early stages. In addition, this hearing has been continued once and accordingly
this rule may not become effective before the statutory deadline for the initial federal
public lands emission inventory submittal. The Commission recognizes that this created
uncertainty for the federal land managers. Nevertheless, the General Assembly
established the deadline for submittal of the federal public lands inventory in 1999 and
the federal agencies have known about this requirement for more than two years.

The Commission anticipates that submittal of the regional emission inventory will
provide enough information to reasonably meet the December 31, 2001 deadline. In
order to ensure that inventories reflect the best information available, however, the



                                                                                           506
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission allowed the federal agencies an additional six months to provide
supplemental information to fully meet the requirements of this rule. Any such additional
information must be submitted to the Commission by July 1, 2002. The Commission is
to hold a public hearing on the inventories and approve them by December 31, 2002.
This schedule will still allow sufficient time for the Commission to consider and approve,
if appropriate, the inventory information submitted.

The Commission believes that the emissions subject to the reporting requirements of
this rule are in the order of hundreds of tons per day of criteria pollutants and that this
level of emissions justifies application to federal and state land managers of reporting
requirements similar to those that apply to owners and operators of other large
emissions sources.

The Commission has the authority to exempt from the inventory requirements any
sources or categories of sources that it determines to be of minor significance. This rule
does not contain such an exemption because little is known about several of the source
categories (e.g., biogenic sources). The Commission may consider at a later time
whether such an exemption is appropriate based on additional information that may be
gathered.

The Commission elected for the purposes of this regulation to define federal land
management agencies as those agencies that own and manage at least 50,000 acres
of land in Colorado. The Commission intended to exempt agencies with relatively small
amounts of land (e.g., Department of Commerce, Bureau of Reclamation) from having
to prepare inventories. In the Commission's view, the benefit of developing information
relative to emissions from lands managed by smaller agencies did not justify the
administrative burden and costs of preparing such emission inventories.

The Division is required by the bill's provisions to provide an inventory of emissions from
activities of all state of Colorado land management agencies on state of Colorado lands
that may affect visibility in Colorado's Class I areas. The inventory is to be delivered to
the Commission by July 31, 2002 and at least every five years thereafter.




                                                                                          507
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

There are several requirements in the statute that have not been included in the
regulation as they are largely policy directives to the Commission and Division from the
General Assembly

The rule revisions adopted address the procedural mechanisms for accomplishing the
mandatory requirements of House Bill 99-1351. The Commission concludes that these
rule revisions are adopted to implement prescriptive state statutory requirements, where
the Commission is allowed no significant policy-making options, for the purposes of §
25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The Commission also concludes that it has no discretion under state
law to adopt alternative rules that differ significantly from these revisions, for the
purposes of § 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S. Accordingly, the Commission did not include in the
record some of the portions of the rulemaking prerequisites addressed in § 25-7-110.5,
C.R.S. and did not make specific determinations regarding the factors listed in § 25-7-
110.8(1), C.R.S.

The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

I.DD. Adopted July 18, 2002
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose comply with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4) and
(12.5), C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis

Regulation Number 3 sets forth the Air Quality Control Commission's permitting and air
pollutant emission notice programs for stationary sources. The regulation is organized
into four parts: Part A contains general provisions and the Air Pollution Emission Notice
(APEN) program; Part B deals with major and minor source Construction Permits; Part
C sets forth the Operating Permit program; and, Part D provides the statements of
basis, specific statutory authority and purpose for revisions to the regulation. Changes
have been made to each of these parts to clarify ambiguous language, eliminate
duplicative or unnecessary provisions and to make the requirements more



                                                                                         508
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

understandable and easier to read. Additionally, some substantive changes have been
made to address inconsistencies between the regulation and state and federal law, to
improve the permit program from an air quality protection perspective and to eliminate
unnecessary burdens on the regulated community. Appendices B and C to the
regulation were deleted because they were duplicative of Appendix D. The majority of
the revisions were proposed by the Air Pollution Control Division based on internal
review and extensive discussions with interested parties. The Division's initial proposals
were addressed at length during a subcommittee process involving the Commission, the
Division, stakeholders and other interested parties. During this process, participants
commented on the initial proposal and offered additional suggestions. The proposal
presented to the Commission is a collaborative effort of the Division and interested
stakeholders.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in various Sections of the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”). Section, 25-7-105(1), C.R.S.,
gives the Air Quality Control Commission authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary for the proper implementation of the Act, including regulations to assure
attainment and maintenance of national ambient air quality standards, emission control
regulations and a prevention of significant deterioration program. Section, 25-7-105(12),
C.R.S., provides specific authority to establish, emission notice, construction permit and
operating permit programs. Some of the statutory parameters for these programs are
set forth in Sections 25-7-114, through 25-7-114.7 of the Act, and these Sections in turn,
provide statutory authority for the current revisions. Additional authority for these
revisions is set forth in Section 25-7-106, C.R.S., in Section 25-7-119, C.R.S., and in
Section 25-7-132, C.R.S.

Purpose

A review of the previous Regulation Number 3 revealed numerous stylistic, grammatical
and formatting problems, language ambiguities and obsolete or duplicative provisions.
These revisions are intended to update, clarify and streamline this regulation.
Additionally, changes have been made to address developments in state and federal


                                                                                          509
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

law, to eliminate inconsistencies between the regulation and state and federal law, and
to improve the programs set forth in the regulation from an air quality perspective while
eliminating or minimizing undue and unnecessary burdens on the regulated community.

I.     Part A Revisions

Part A of Regulation Number 3 contains a definitional Section and provisions that set
forth the Air Pollution Emission Notice program and other general provisions relevant to
the notice and permit programs.

A.     Definition Changes

Numerous changes to the definition Section were made. Primarily, these changes were
designed to fix ambiguous language, to make the definitions more readable or to delete
obsolete or duplicative definitions. For example, the definition of applicable requirement
was modified to clarify that it included construction permit requirements that may have
been modified during the operating permit process. This definition was always intended
to include such modifications, but the old language failed to clearly explain that intent.
Similarly, a change to the definition of major modification was necessary to clarify that
the term included both physical changes and changes in the method of operation. The
prior version omitted language resulting in an ambiguity regarding this intended
meaning. Changes were made to the definition of net emissions increase to clarify that
in calculating an increase or decrease of emissions, sources are not committed to use
the emission numbers contained in an APEN. For example, when credible demonstrable
evidence indicates a different amount of actual emissions exists, this information can be
used to demonstrate a net emissions decrease. The definition of significant was also
changed to clarify that the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and New
Source Review (NSR)-nonattainment area (NAA) programs do not apply to certain
hazardous air pollutants. Specifically, the state PSD and NSR/NAA programs exempt
those hazardous air pollutants that are exempt from the federal PSD and NSR/NAA
programs pursuant to Section 112(b)(6) of the Federal Act.

In addition to the clarifications, formatting and readability changes made to the definition
Section, a number of definitions were added or modified to reflect developments in
federal law. For example, the Commission revised the definitions of actual emissions


                                                                                        510
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and major modification to include special provisions governing physical or operational
changes at electric utility steam generating units. These changes were necessitated by
changes in the federal regulations arising out of the decision in the Wisconsin Electric
Power Company (“WEPCO”) case. The changes are applicable only to coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units. Colorado law has required that NSR provisions be
interpreted consistent with federal requirements since 1994 when the Colorado General
Assembly enacted HB94-1264, Section 25-7-109, C.R.S. The WEPCO definitions have
been added, consistent with EPA's regulations, in order to clarify the meaning and
scope of the changes to the definitions of actual emissions and major modification.
Units need not have obtained a formal applicability determination from the Division
before proceeding with the physical or operational change, although doing so is at the
risk of the source. Actual emissions levels may be determined from the information
found in periodic APENs which sources file pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A., or
from other credible information, such as data from continuous monitoring systems. The
filings by sources in the past, such as APENs, have enabled the Division to track
sources' emission increases and decreases in a manner consistent with the provisions
in the WEPCO rule, therefore, the Commission believes this formal adoption should not
impose a greater burden on sources in Colorado than they have historically
experienced. The Commission notes that, consistent with the legislature's intent, the
WEPCO provisions have been implemented by the Division in recent years. One
example is the flexibility provided a change qualifying as a pollution control project.

The definition of major modification was further changed to restrict what constituted a
temporary activity. Under both the old and new regulations, temporary activities are not
considered to be part of a major stationary source. The old definition could be read,
however, to exclude activities that constituted temporary sources under the PSD
program. Such sources are subject to certain limited PSD requirements, and could be
classified as an exempt temporary activity resulting in an exemption from those limited
requirements. The new version clarifies that only temporary construction or exploration
activities are exempt, thus preserving the applicability of the PSD temporary source
requirements.




                                                                                          511
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Under the definitions for major modification and major source, while emissions from
temporary construction are not included in determining whether there is a major
modification or source, emissions from ongoing construction are included. Several
parties requested clarification as to what constitutes ongoing construction. Such a
determination must be made on a case-by-case basis, but generally, construction
lasting more than two years will be considered ongoing.

At the suggestion of the regulated community, the definition of commenced construction
was supplemented to identify the entire range of pre-construction activities that may be
undertaken without obtaining a construction permit.

Provisions governing regulation of non-road engines have undergone a complete
overhaul. In addition, the definition of non-road engines was moved from the APEN
exemption provisions in Part A, Section II.D.1.sss., to the definition Section of Part A.
The prior regulation (Section II.D.1.sss.) exempted certain non-road engines from APEN
and permitting requirements, provided these exemptions did not apply where the
engines would otherwise trigger PSD, NSR-NAA review or other applicable
requirements. Since the promulgation of that regulation, Congress amended the federal
Clean Air Act. These amendments, as interpreted by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals,
precluded the states from enacting emission control regulations for non-road engines
except under very restricted circumstances. The Court of Appeals held, however, that
states could enact use restrictions such as restrictions on the hours of operation or
amount of fuel usage. To address this situation, the regulated community requested that
non-road engines be specifically identified as non-stationary sources, thus exempting
them from most, if not all, of the requirements of Regulation Number 3. While agreeing
that non-road engines should not be treated as stationary sources, the Division
expressed a concern that a large aggregation of these engines might result in a
violation of ambient air quality standards. To reconcile these conflicting concerns the
regulatory revisions create a new state-only non-road engine program for certain non-
road engines.

The Commission's authority to establish a non-road engine program and to regulate the
operation of non-road engines is set forth in 27-7-106(1) C.R.S., and through the



                                                                                          512
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

legislative declaration in 25-7-102 C.R.S. Non-road engines subject to the program
must submit an APEN and pay appropriate APEN fees. If specified emission levels are
tripped in the APEN, the program further requires that the source obtain a temporary
permit and pay applicable permit fees. The permit will include such use restrictions as
are necessary to prevent an exceedance of ambient air quality standards. Non-road
engines that are mobile or self-propelled equipment such as bulldozers, haul trucks,
water trucks, loaders, shovels, backhoes, road graders, cranes or similar mobile
equipment are not subject to the state-only permit program and are not required to
obtain an APEN.

Whether an engine qualifies as a non-road engine as opposed to a stationary source
will depend on the facts of a particular case. To qualify as a non-road engine under
Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.40.a.iii., the engine must be portable. What
constitutes portable will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Additionally, such
portable engines lose their status as non-road engines if they remain at a location for
more than twelve consecutive months. The regulation narrowly defines location such
that use of a portable engine at multiple sites at a given source does not constitute use
at a single location. This provision, however, is not intended to allow a source to
circumvent the regulation by moving a given engine for the purpose of avoiding
expiration of the twelve-month period.

For sources that have voluntarily obtained permits for a non-road engine(s) as defined
in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.40., prior to the effective date of this rule
revision, a source may continue to operate under the existing permit. A modification or
re-opening of the existing permit will effectively subject a source to the requirements set
forth in the non-road engine state-only permit program (Part A, Sections I.B.40.c. and
I.B.40.d.)

During the public hearing on this rulemaking, the Commission raised concerns
regarding the flexibility and responsiveness of the new state-only non-road engine
permit program in emergency or other unforeseen situations. In these situations, it is an
operator's obligation to file an APEN and obtain a state-only non-road engine permit
under Sections I.B.40.c., and I.B.40.d., prior to the exceedance of any trigger level (i.e.,



                                                                                            513
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

hours of operation and/or emission limitation). This clarification is intended to increase
program flexibility by ensuring that operators, including local and state government, will
not be penalized when responding to emergencies and business planning conditions
when such conditions subsequently trigger APEN and permit application requirements
under the program.

To enhance and foster program responsiveness, the Commission expects that the
Division shall act to complete state-only non-road engine permit applications as
expeditiously as possible. In addition, under the authority set forth in Section 25-7-
114.5(5), C.R.S., the Commission has determined that state-only non-road engine
permit applications shall not be designated as permit actions subject to public notice
requirements.

B.     Changes to APEN Program

The Division proposed to add record keeping requirements to a number of APEN
exemptions. The Commission did not adopt the specific record keeping language in Part
A of the regulation. The intent of the Commission, however, is that sources should have
records or other information sufficient to verify that an exemption from APEN
requirements can be taken in accordance with the regulatory requirements.

The Commission revised Section II.D.4.a.(vi), deleting the solvent return opening size
requirement for small remote reservoir cold solvent degreasers contained in Section
II.D.4.a.(vi)(A). The Commission also revised the emissions limit in Section
II.D.4.a.(vi)(C) from 350 pounds of volatile organic compounds per year to one ton of
emissions per year. These changes were requested by industry based on the argument
that the existing provision was specifically designed for one particular source and is not
useful for the broader industry. While sources are no longer required to meet the solvent
return opening provision in order to claim the exemption, they are subject to the
requirements contained in Regulation Number 7, Section X.B.

Measurement of the throughput threshold for the fuel storage and dispensing equipment
APEN Exemption in Section II.D.1.ccc., was changed from a 30-day average to an
annual average. In addition, language was added to clarify that sources in the Denver
ozone attainment-maintenance area must still utilize Stage 1 vapor recovery on all tanks


                                                                                         514
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

with a capacity greater than 550 gallons, as required by Regulation Number 7. While
ordinarily sources subject to other applicable requirements would be precluded from
taking the exemption under the APEN and constructions permit exemption catchall
provisions, in this particular instance, it is the Commission's intent that sources may
take this exemption providing that the Regulation Number 7 vapor recovery
requirements are met.

An APEN exemption for wet screening operations was added at Section I.D.1.cccc.
Certain wet screening operations are subject to New Source Performance Standard
(“NSPS”) Subpart OOO. This federal requirement requires that such facilities comply
with a zero visible emissions standard. Ordinarily, a source that is subject to a New
Source Performance standard precludes the source from taking an APEN exemption
pursuant to the catchall provision in Section II.D.4. It is the Commission's intent that in
this particular case, application of NSPS Subpart OOO shall not prevent a wet
screening operation from taking the exemption.

A substantive change was made to the applicable de minimis levels for APEN
exemptions in attainment and nonattainment areas. Under the prior regulation, if an
area was nonattainment for any pollutant the lower nonattainment de minimis levels
applied for all pollutants. This has been revised so that the lower levels will only apply to
the pollutants for which the area is not in attainment.

The exemption for agricultural operations was changed to provide greater clarity and to
be consistent with the requirements of the State Act. Conforming changes were also
made to the agricultural exemption set forth in Part C.

Because Regulation Number 3 and the Common Provisions Regulation underwent
contemporaneous review, the primary focus with respect to duplicative provisions was
to eliminate duplications between the two regulations. Duplicative provisions that were
only applicable to Regulation Number 3 were deleted from the Common Provisions
Regulation. Provisions applicable to multiple regulations remain in the Common
Provisions and were deleted from Regulation Number 3. Certain non-Regulation
Number 3 duplications were also addressed. A full review of all the Commission's




                                                                                          515
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

regulations was not undertaken at this time. It is expected that there are additional
duplications that should be addressed as other regulations are opened for revision.

C.     Fee Schedule Revisions

The language governing the fee schedule for APENs and permit processing was
simplified to provide that fees will be charged in accordance with the procedures and
amounts set forth in the Act. This change alleviates the requirement of revising the
regulation every time the statutory fee schedules change.

D.     Confidentiality Provisions

The rules governing confidentiality of documents submitted in connection with APENs
and permit applications were changed to be consistent with the Act, and to clarify
ambiguities in the prior regulation. In addition, more specific provisions were added
regarding the process involved in asserting confidentiality and determining whether
documents are in fact confidential. Under the prior regulation, the evaluation of
confidentiality claims was very ambiguous making it difficult for the Division to determine
whether a document was confidential, and providing sources no guidance as to the
steps they should take to ensure confidential treatment of documents. The new
provisions clearly set forth the rules for claiming confidentiality and for evaluating such
claims. This should benefit the Division and the regulated community by providing a
clear understanding of confidentiality protections.

Pursuant to the State Act, information submitted as part of an air pollutant emission
notice, Permit Application or Operating Permit reports is confidential only if it relates to
secret processes or methods of manufacture or production. This limitation is reflected in
the revised regulation. In contrast, Section 25-7-111(4), C.R.S. provides that information
obtained by the Division in connection with an enforcement action may be entitled to
confidential treatment if it constitutes a trade secret. The current regulatory revision is
not intended to alter or affect the protections offered under Section 25-7-111(4), C.R.S.

In cases where the Division determines that certain information is not subject to
confidential treatment the revisions shorten the notification period from fifteen to three
days. This change was made based on the statutory mandate in the Colorado Open



                                                                                          516
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Records Act requiring release of public records within three days after a request for
such records. The notification period is intended to allow the source the opportunity to
obtain judicial relief from the Division's determination under the State Administrative
Procedures Act prior to release of the information. While it is recognized that the three-
day notification period may make it difficult for a source to institute a timely action, the
requirements of CORA preclude a longer period. It is expected that the Division will take
the steps necessary to provide actual notice to the source as soon as a determination is
made, so that the source will have adequate time to protect its rights.

II.    Part B Revisions

The majority of revisions to Part B involve stylistic changes intended to improve the
readability of the regulation. A small number of substantive revisions were made as
described below.

The provisions in Section IV.H., were changed to clarify the requirements for obtaining a
final approval construction permit. The previous regulation required the source to
demonstrate compliance with the initial approval construction permit. The Division was
then required to conduct an inspection to determine compliance. Because an inspection
during the initial approval period is not required by law, the new regulation makes the
inspection discretionary. This provides necessary protections in those instances where
an inspection may be needed. The provision was further modified to give the Division
discretion as to whether to issue a final approval permit when there is a pending
operating permit application. Requiring the issuance of a final approval permit was often
an unnecessary step in situations where an operating permit would be issued shortly
thereafter. To avoid confusion among sources when the Division elects not to issue a
final approval construction permit, a notice will be provided to the source in writing.
Similar flexibility was added to Section III.D.6., in cases where a previously permit
exempt source loses its exemption based on addition of new emission points.

The prior regulation required submission of an operation, maintenance, and record
keeping plan with the construction permit application. This provision ignored the reality
that such plans are difficult to provide until after the source has been constructed. The




                                                                                          517
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

new regulation provides that these plans must be submitted prior to obtaining final
approval.

Significant changes were made to the post construction monitoring requirements for the
PSD program. The changes were made to be consistent with the federal PSD
regulations. The revisions provide flexibility to either require or waive post-construction
monitoring.

The revisions expand the provisions governing appeals of construction permits. The
prior regulation provided that a source could appeal the Division's decision to the
Commission, but failed to identify the process for such an appeal. The revision provides
that the appeal must be made within thirty days after the issuance of the permit, denial
or revocation, and will be held in accordance with the general rules for adjudicatory
hearings. A similar provision was also added in Part C, Section V.E.

Section V.B. has been changed to reflect that the Black Canyon of the Gunnison has
been reclassified as a National Park. The boundaries of this area remain the same, and
there is no change in the classification of this area as Class I or Class II.

Revisions have been made throughout the regulation to address changes in areas from
the nonattainment classification to the attainment/maintenance classification. A search
of the regulation was conducted to identify those provisions that depended on the area
being classified as nonattainment. When a requirement remains in place after the
reclassification of an area, the word nonattainment was changed to
attainment/maintenance. Otherwise, no change was made. A substantive change was
made to the applicable de minimis levels for permit exemptions in attainment and
nonattainment areas. Under the prior regulation, if an area was nonattainment for any
pollutant the lower nonattainment de minimis levels applied for all pollutants. This has
been revised so that the lower levels will only apply to the pollutants for which the area
is not in attainment to be consistent with a similar revision in Part A.

III.   Part C Revisions

As with Parts A and B, the majority of revisions to Part C include changes to improve
readability and to clarify ambiguous provisions. Revisions were made to Section II.E., to



                                                                                         518
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

fix poorly worded language. The new provision more clearly explains when an
insignificant activity exemption can be taken. In addition, changes in II.E., and to other
Sections regarding exemptions included in Part C were made to conform to exemptions
in Part A and B.

Provisions regarding the phase-in of the operating permit program were deleted since
these provisions are now obsolete.

Section III.B.2., sets forth certain timing requirements with respect to submitting
operating permit applications. The prior regulation was unclear as to the new legal
requirements for sources subject to the operating permit requirement after start-up by
operation of law. The revised provision clarifies that sources shall submit an application
within twelve months of the effective date of the new requirements or at such other time
specified in those requirements. The revisions also clarify that when a source subject to
an operating permit is modified, an application to revise the permit must be submitted
within twelve months of the modification.

In the past, significant confusion has arisen when a source seeks an operating permit
prior to obtaining a final approval construction permit under Part B. Revisions to
Sections V.A., and IV.B.3., clarify the rules governing these situations. These revisions
also conform to the changes made in Part B, Section IV.H. The flexibility given to the
Division to issue an operating permit absent a final approval construction permit under
Section V.A., is intended to apply regardless of whether the source has commenced
operation of the emission unit(s) at issue.

IV.    Appendices

Prior to this rulemaking, Regulation Number 3 included four appendices: Appendix A,
Method for Determining De Minimis Levels for Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants;
Appendix B, 1993 Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants; Appendix C, 1994 and
Subsequent Years Non-Criteria Reportable Pollutants; and Appendix D, Non-Criteria
Reportable Pollutants. This rulemaking deletes the original Appendix B and Appendix C
because they are duplicative of Appendix D. Appendix D has been revised to Appendix
B in order to maintain continuity in the regulation.




                                                                                         519
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.EE. Adopted October 17, 2002
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose comply with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4) and
(12.5), C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis

Regulation Number 3 sets forth the Air Quality Control Commission's permitting and air
pollutant emission notice programs for stationary sources. Pursuant to its statutory
authority, the Commission may exempt certain stationary sources from permitting and
APEN requirements where emissions from such sources are deemed to be insignificant.
The Commission is revising the exemptions for condensate and crude oil tanks and
condensate and crude oil loading equipment to ensure that the exemptions apply only
where the emissions are truly insignificant. Additionally, the Commission is revising the
provisions designed to ensure that in exempting certain sources from APEN and permit
requirements, the regulation does not allow sources to avoid other state and federal
requirements. This revision clarifies when application of other requirements prohibits
sources from claiming exemptions.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in various Sections of the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”). Section, 25-7-105(1), C.R.S.,
gives the Air Quality Control Commission authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary for the proper implementation of the Act, including regulations to assure
attainment and maintenance of national ambient air quality standards, emission control
regulations and a prevention of significant deterioration program. Section, 25-7-105(12),
C.R.S., provides specific authority to establish, emission notice, construction permit and
operating permit programs. Some of the statutory parameters for these programs are
set forth in Sections 25-7-114.1, and 25-7-114.2 of the Act, including the authority to
exempt certain sources from APEN and Permitting requirements. These Sections in
turn, provide additional statutory authority for the current revisions.



                                                                                          520
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Purpose

I.     Condensate Tanks and Truck Loading Equipment

Revisions to the crude oil and condensate storage tank exemption in Part A, Section
II.D.1.ddd.and crude oil and condensate truck loading equipment exemption in Part A,
Section II.D.1.ee., were proposed to address the issue of flashing emissions in
condensate tanks. The exemptions, and a corresponding exemption in Part C, Section
II.E.3.ee. and ddd., did not take flash emissions into account when the Commission
initially adopted the exemption. The large quantity of volatile organic emissions that can
be released during a flash event led to changes in the exemptions. Additionally,
separate exemptions have been established for crude oil tanks and equipment and
condensate tanks and equipment in recognition of the fact that flashing emissions from
crude oil and condensate are significantly different.



The Commission recognizes that in changing these exemptions a number of tanks and
equipment that were previously exempt from APEN reporting, and therefore exempt
from construction permitting requirements, will now be required to file APENs. The
Commission does not believe, however, that these existing sources will now be required
to obtain state construction permits, since such a requirement is triggered by
construction or modification of a source, and not by a change in a previously applicable
exemption. If, however, the tanks or equipment is modified after December 30, 2002, a
construction permit will be required for the modification unless the tanks or equipment
qualifies under the revised APEN exemption or constructions permit exemption. During
the revision process there was some discussion about what might constitute a
modification that would trigger construction permit requirements. Based on the
information provided to date, the Division and Commission do not currently believe that
reworking of an existing well would constitute a modification under the regulations.
Additionally, sources subject to PSD, NSR-NAA and Title V permitting requirements are
required to have such permits regardless of their exemption status. The Commission
notes to permit applicants that this change becomes effective on the effective date of
this regulation.


                                                                                       521
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In connection with these revisions, the Commission has also looked at the timing
requirements set forth in Part A, Section II.D.1.lll., for submitting APENs and obtaining
construction permits for tanks at crude oil and natural gas exploration and production
sites. The Commission enacted this provision in 1993 to allow sources sufficient time to
determine production levels before being required to submit APENs or construction
permit applications. To affect this, Section II.D.1.lll. provided that APENs for oil and gas
exploration and production operations were not required until 30 days after filing the well
completion or recompletion report with the appropriate state or federal agency.
Additionally, Part B, Section III.D.8. provided that applications for construction permits
for such operations were due at the same time as the APEN filing. Based on
discussions during the regulation revision process the Commission discovered that the
well completion report must be filed before production levels can be determined and
that the provision should have referenced the report of first production. Therefore, the
Commission has revised Section II.D.1.lll. to clarify and effectuate the intent of the 1993
revisions.

The Commission also recognizes the definition of condensate that appears in the
Common Provisions Regulation does not include reference to an API gravity and
therefore could be read to include crude oil. It is the Commission's intent that for the
purposes of these exemptions, as well as APEN reporting, condensate should only
include hydrocarbon liquids that fit within the Common Provisions definition and that
have an API gravity of 40 degrees or above. The Commission anticipates revising the
Common Provisions definition to more clearly reflect this intent the next time the
Common Provisions regulation is opened for revision.

II.    APEN Catchall

Changes to the APEN catchall in Part A, Section II.D.4. and the construction permit
catchalls in Part B, Section III.D.5., were significantly reworked to add clarity. The prior
versions were somewhat unclear as to both the effect of APEN and permitting
exemptions on other applicable requirements and when otherwise exempt sources
would be required to file APENs. While the revisions minimally change the substantive
requirements of the two catchall provisions the new language is intended to more



                                                                                           522
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

clearly express these requirements. The new language clarifies that sources that are
exempt from APEN and/or construction-permitting requirements are not, by virtue of that
exemption, exempt from any other applicable requirements. Thus, for example, a
source that is exempt from APEN or permitting requirements, must still comply with the
Regulation Number 1 20% opacity standard. Likewise, an APEN exempt emission point
at a major source is excused from paying APEN fees but may still need to be listed as
an insignificant activity under the requirements of the Title V program. Additionally,
where the emissions from a particular emission point would cause a source to avoid
PSD, NSR-NAA or Title V information regarding that emission point cannot be omitted
from any permit application, notwithstanding the fact that the emission point standing
alone might be exempt from APEN or Construction Permit requirements.

The Commission also requires that if the potential to emit, taking into account full design
rate and continuous operation, triggers PSD or NSR requirements, the source must
submit an Air Pollutant Emission Notice and apply for the appropriate permit, or must
apply for a permit to limit the physical or operational capacity of the source such that the
source is not considered to be a major source as defined in Section I.B.59 of Part A of
this regulation. This language previously appeared in the catchalls, but was relocated to
this statement of basis.

Finally, the revised catchall provisions subject certain emission points and sources to
APEN and Construction Permit requirements notwithstanding the fact that such points
and sources would otherwise be exempt. Sources specifically identified in the
applicability Section of any subpart of Part A of Regulation Number 6 (New Source
Performance Standards), or Regulation Number 8 (Hazardous Air Pollutants), Parts A,
C, D, and E. This provision allows the Division to keep track of these points and
sources, and ensure that the requirements of these programs are being properly
followed. It must be noted, however, that wet screening operations subject to the
exemption set forth at Part A, Section II.D.1.cccc may claim exemptions notwithstanding
the fact that such sources are subject to New Source Performance Standard OOO.




                                                                                         523
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.FF.   Adopted April 16, 2004
Revisions to Colorado Air Quality Control Commission Regulation Number 3
Stationary Source Permitting and Air Pollutant Emissions Notice Requirements

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulation Number 3 sets forth the Air Quality Control Commission's (“Commission”)
permitting and air pollutant emission notice programs for stationary sources. The rule
revisions adopted reorganize and clarify the permitting, monitoring, reporting and fee
requirements of Regulation Number 3. In addition, new provisions were added to
conform the state program to the federal rules.

The existing regulation was composed of four parts. Part A contained general provisions
and the Air Pollution Emission Notice [APEN] program; Part B addressed major and
minor source construction permits; Part C set forth the Operating Permit Program; and
Part D included the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose for
historical revisions to the regulation.

The Commission reorganized the rule in order to make it easier for sources to find and
comply with applicable requirements. Part A now contains general provisions applicable
to reporting and permitting, including the Air Pollution Emission Notice requirements;
Part B addresses construction permits; Part C includes the operating permit program;
and Part D deals with the Nonattainment New Source Review and Prevention of
Significant Deterioration [“New Source Review” or “NSR”] programs for major stationary
sources. Minor sources will only be subject to Parts A and B; major sources (as defined
for the Operating Permit program) are governed by Parts A, B and C. Major stationary
sources must comply with Parts A, B, C and D. In particular, this reorganization
separated the major stationary source NSR provisions from the construction permit
requirements applicable to all sources. This will make it easier for minor sources to
comply with the regulation. The Commission also made changes to each part in order to


                                                                                         524
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

clarify ambiguous language, eliminate duplicative or unnecessary provisions, increase
the level of certainty for the regulated community and make the regulation more
understandable. Part E is now reserved for Environmental Management Systems and
Part G contains the historical and current Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory
Authority and Purpose for Commission rulemaking actions.

In addition, the changes incorporate modifications to the nonattainment new source
review and prevention of significant deterioration programs. Changes to these programs
were necessary to comply with federal rule revisions that must be incorporated into the
Colorado State Implementation Plan (“SIP”). The Commission tailored the federal
requirements to Colorado's air quality program to ensure efficient and flexible operation
and administration of the program while eliminating or minimizing undue and
unnecessary burdens on the regulated community.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105(17), C.R.S.,
gives the Commission authority to promulgate regulations necessary for the proper
implementation of the Act, including rules to assure attainment and maintenance of
national ambient air quality standards and a prevention of significant deterioration
program. Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S, provides specific authority to establish emission
notice, construction permit and operating permit programs. Some of the statutory
parameters for these programs are set forth in Sections 25-7-114 through 25-7-114.7 of
the Act and these Sections, in turn, provide statutory authority for the current revisions.
Additional authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-106, 25-7-119 and
25-7-132, C.R.S.

The Commission's adoption of this rule is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in
Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

General Revisions to Regulation Number 3



                                                                                        525
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission's reorganization of this rule separates the provisions applicable to all
sources (Part A), the construction permit program (Part B) and the operating permit
program (Part C). The NSR provisions for major stationary sources are now contained
in Part D. In the past, these various components of the rule were intermingled to an
extent that caused confusion and unnecessary work for both sources and for the Air
Pollution Control Division (“Division”). By separating the major components of
Regulation Number 3, the Commission intends to make the provisions more readily
usable, particularly for minor sources.

As part of the reorganization, the Commission relocated some definitions. If a definition
relates only to one part, it can be found at the beginning of that part. Definitions that are
used in more than one part are placed in Part A. This approach will allow minor sources
to identify applicable provisions without having to address the differences between
construction permit, operating permit and major NSR requirements.

The Commission in this rulemaking did not amend Section V. of Part A of the existing
rule. That Section addresses emissions trading and changes to it are beyond the scope
of this proceeding. Likewise, the Commission specifically concluded that this rulemaking
should not extend to changes to the construction-permitting program for minor sources
unrelated to the federal NSR revisions; this restriction appeared in the notice of
rulemaking. The Commission understands that discussions between the Division and
stakeholders prompted by this proceeding may lead to policy and implementation
changes.

The Commission established the effective date for the NSR revisions as the date of EPA
approval of the changes as part of the Colorado SIP. An earlier effective date would
have created differences between federal and state rules that could expose the
regulated community to inconsistent requirements. For the remainder of the rule, the
Commission concluded that the effective date need not await EPA action. Those
provisions will become effective following publication in the Colorado Register.

Finally, an issue arose regarding the use of the term “attainment/maintenance” areas.
Although this terminology is used in Colorado's State Implementation Plan, its




                                                                                         526
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

relationship to these rule changes is unclear. The Commission decided to address this
question at a later time.

Finally, the Commission concluded that the revisions to Regulation Number 3 do not
change the procedural, administrative nature of the regulation and are not specifically
intended to reduce air pollution. Accordingly, the Commission did not make the
determinations addressed in Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., although this Statement of
Basis and Purpose includes discussion to inform interested parties of the Commission's
intent.

Part A Changes

Changes to Part A largely clarify or correct existing provisions. Where EPA changed
specific language used in this part, the Commission adopted identical phrasing absent
an identified reason for a distinction.

The term “annual actual emissions” in Section I.B.9. replaces “actual emissions”
throughout Part A in references to Air Pollutant Emissions Notices (“APENs”) so that a
source's reported emissions are those actually emitted during a single calendar year.
This will distinguish reported emissions from the two-year average of “actual emissions”
used for major NSR purposes.

Section II.D.1.g. has been modified to refer to a “major source” rather than a “major
stationary source,” a term that is specific to the major NSR program. This conforms to
Section 25-7-109, C.R.S.

The Commission changed Section VI.C.3 to permit sources sixty days from issuance of
an invoice to pay annual emissions fees. This approach will allow sources additional
time to process fee payments. In addition, the Division is required to forward any bills
more than thirty days overdue to the collections office for the state. This extended
payment period will reduce the number of instances in which delays in payment result in
a fee bill being sent to collections.

The Commission adopted a change to the definition of “stationary source” reflected in
Section Part A, Section I.B.41 to conform it to federal and state law.

Changes to Parts B and C


                                                                                        527
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission made only conforming changes in Parts B and C after moving the
provisions applying to major NSR to Part D.

Part D Changes

Nonattainment New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration
Provisions

On December 31, 2002, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) promulgated a
final rule addressing the major NSR programs mandated by Parts C and D of Title I of
the federal Clean Air Act. The Agency changed the requirements applicable to
Colorado's SIP. The Commission adopted these revisions in order to comport
Colorado's air quality program to the EPA rules. The revised regulation references to
“NSR requirements” include both the nonattainment new source review and prevention
of significant deterioration programs.

EPA's major NSR changes modified the method for determining whether a proposed
facility modification results in a significant emissions increase, thus triggering major
NSR evaluation and technology requirements. In addition, EPA added new applicability
options, Plant-wide Applicability Limitations and Clean Units, and an exclusion from
major modification provisions for Pollution Control Projects.

On October 27, 2003, EPA adopted further revisions to the major NSR program. In that
rule, EPA provided a category of equipment replacement activities that would not be
subject to the major NSR requirements under the routine maintenance, repair and
replacement (“RMRR”) exclusion. That rule has been challenged in U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington, D.C. The Court issued a stay, because of which the rule was
not yet effective at the time of the hearing in this proceeding. The Commission elected
to address RMRR issues in the future and not consider RMRR rule changes at this time.

In general, the Commission changed Part D of Regulation Number 3 to mirror the EPA
major NSR rules. There are instances in which the Commission's rule differs from the
federal provisions. These cases are specifically identified in this Statement of Basis and
Purpose, as required by Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

General



                                                                                           528
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission required Division review and/or approval of certain actions in
instances in which the federal rule was either silent or contained no similar specific
requirement. The EPA rule preamble anticipates that state minor source permit
programs will continue and the Commission agreed. Colorado's Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act (“the State Act”) specifically requires permits for construction and
modification of air pollution sources. The Commission has historically used permits as
the basic administrative structure for its stationary source programs. Exceptions to
permit requirements exist in the rule for sources or activities with small emissions that
have a minimal impact on air quality. In Section I.B.5., the Commission imposed a
requirement that owners or operators using the actual-to-projected-actual applicability
test for a project that requires a minor source permit or modification [pursuant to Part A,
Section I.B.26., Part C, Section I.A.4. or Part C, Section X., or any minor source permit
under any provisions of Part B], to submit an otherwise-required permit application and
include documentation adequate to substantiate calculations made for the test. The
federal rule requires that the owner or operator retain, but not report to the permitting
authority, this information. However, the information listed in this Section would
necessarily be generated by the owner or operator to satisfy the federal requirements
and need only be submitted with an otherwise-necessary construction permit
application. Accordingly, the Commission concluded that this requirement does not
exceed federal requirements for the purposes of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act.

The Commission also concluded that the emissions calculated for the actual-to-
projected actual test did not need to be the subject of a permit limitation. Accordingly,
the information submitted will only be placed in an appendix to the major stationary
source's Title V and/or in a construction permit note. This provision will assist the
Division in evaluating the results of the applicability test before the relevant project is
begun. Both the Division and the owner or operator will benefit from early identification
of any disagreements about the applicability test.

The Commission noted discrepancies in the use in the federal rule of the terms
“regulated NSR pollutant” and “regulated air pollutant.” The latter includes Hazardous



                                                                                              529
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Air Pollutants by definition. In order to conform all of the Sections using these terms, the
Commission used “regulated NSR pollutant” throughout Part D.

The federal rule allows a reviewing authority to establish a “reasonable period” for
determining what constitutes a “contemporaneous” net emissions increase. Part A,
Section I.B.37.b. of the old rule specified a period of five years. The Commission
retained that five-year period in the revisions adopted. This period remains reasonable,
just as it was under the prior version, serves to increase certainty and should assure
that any net emission increase calculations are more accurate.

For calculation of Baseline Actual Emissions levels in Part D, Section II.A.4., the
Commission concluded that emissions during periods of startup, shutdown and
malfunction must be quantified based on the rate of operation during that period. For
example, during a control equipment malfunction the calculation must assume that no
controls were used to reduce emissions during that period unless the source can
demonstrate the actual level of control provided during the malfunction. The
Commission will allow a source to use estimation methods based on best engineering
judgment, subject to approval by the Division; however, sources utilizing Continuous
Emissions Monitors should be able to quantify these emissions with relative ease. In
any event, the Baseline Actual Emissions calculations must be approved by the Division
for use in the applicability test.

In calculating Baseline Actual Emissions, Part D, Section II.A.3., the emissions from
malfunctions/upsets that exceed any enforceable limitations effective at the time of the
event must be excluded. Allowing inclusion of these emissions in the calculation could
reward a source for failing to limit, as much as possible, emissions during these events.
Existing rules relating to these periods and “upsets” are not otherwise changed by the
revisions.

The federal rule requires that emissions from “demand growth” be excluded from the
Projected Actual Emissions calculation. Demand growth is any increased utilization that
could have been accommodated by the source prior to any change. In no case,
however, may demand growth emissions exceed an enforceable limitation existing prior
to the change or modification.


                                                                                         530
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission elected not to elaborate on or further define some issues in the rule,
instead relying on policy and practice that will be developed as necessary by the
Division and/or EPA. These include what “could” increase emissions and what
constitutes “regular operations” in Section VI.B.5.c. as well as the approach for
evaluating “design capacity” in Section II.A.38.a. In another provision, Section VI.B.5.,
the Commission intends that the Division will implement the wording “reasonable
possibility” consistent with, though not necessarily identical to, EPA's rule preamble and
the Notice of Reconsideration issued by EPA regarding this issue. Likewise, when an
owner or operator uses emission factors to monitor PAL pollutant emissions [Section
V.A.7.c.(iii)], it and the Division will adjust, as appropriate, those factors to account for
uncertainties or limitations inherent in the factor. The federal preamble may be
consulted for guidance on such issues, including the option for the Division to exempt a
source from having to validate the factors.

Sections II.A.4.a. and VI.B.5.c. include the concept of a period that is “more
representative of normal source operations” in the definition of Baseline Actual
Emissions. The Commission decided that such determinations will continue to be
resolved on a case-by-case basis by the Division.

Plant-wide Applicability Limitations (“PAL”)

For the purpose of setting a PAL, a unit planned but not yet constructed as of the date
of PAL determination has Baseline Actual Emissions of 0 tons per year, as it does not
have actual emissions as of that date. These units do not differ in practice from those
later planned but not yet constructed under the PAL. Both types of units must meet the
emissions limitations and other conditions assessed in the PAL. Emissions units
constructed at the time the PAL is set, but that have not yet operated for more than two
years are new units. The Division, after consultation with EPA, recommended that the
Commission not allow PALs for major stationary sources that have not been in
operation for at least two years. The Commission agreed. These sources would not
have “actual emissions” for this purpose because they would not yet have operated
during a representative period. Allowing PALs for these sources would effectively create
an “allowable PAL.” EPA clearly indicated in the December 31, 2002 preamble that it did



                                                                                            531
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

not intend to create provisions for allowable PALs in that promulgation. The phrasing
here comports with EPA's intent.

Process and control equipment changes under PALs require application and approval of
a permit under existing provisions of Colorado law. PALs, since they establish a new
emissions limitation for an entire facility, will necessitate a revision to the Operating
Permit held by the owner or operator. The Division will act on any such permit
application during the period otherwise provided in Part C. Once a source has obtained
a PAL, the PAL emission limits and conditions must remain in place for the entire ten-
year effective period of the PAL. Allowing a source to obtain and renounce a PAL at a
shorter interval would create confusion and potentially allow manipulation of the PAL
option to avoid major NSR.

The Commission adopted language differing in minor respects from the federal rule in
Sections XVII.B.2. and XVII.I.2. The federal language used to construct Section
XVII.B.2. was incomplete and unclear in that it did not specify that baseline actual
emissions calculations must be provided for each emissions unit as parts of a PAL
permit application. The phrase added creates no additional burden for sources that
would have to evaluate emissions from these units in any event. In Section XVII.I.2., the
Commission added the phrase “including any additional information requested by the
Division.” Although the Division's authority to request information in order to confirm an
owner or operator's calculations is well accepted, this addition places the PAL applicant
on notice that a request may be made.

The Commission also departed from the federal wording in Section XVII.N.1. that
addressed the semi-annual report to be provided by PAL sources. The Commission
concluded that requiring submittal with the report of all data relied upon imposed an
unnecessary and undue burden on sources. Instead, the rule allows the Division to
request these data if it finds it necessary to implement its administration of the PAL
permit.

Clean Units

The CU provisions of this regulation address only the emissions from a specific unit. If a
unit is designated as a Clean Unit, the source does not need to go through the major


                                                                                            532
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

source NSR program if it makes certain types of changes in the future. This allows
greater flexibility to a source. The source must accept the changes to its Title V permit
that are required by the rule. Additionally, an owner or operator must apply for and
obtain either a Construction Permit or Operating Permit for future changes at the CU
that meet the definition of modification for Part B or C purposes even though it need not
evaluate the project for major source NSR applicability. The Division will act on a permit
application during the period otherwise provided in Part B or C of this regulation.

Section XV.A.3. requires an owner or operator to submit a request for designation as a
Clean Unit (“CU”), although this requirement does not affect automatic qualification as a
CU. This provision ensures that the Division may conduct an initial, cursory review to
confirm the qualification. Absent this provision, sources mistakenly using the CU option
might operate for years in the belief that the designation protects operation of the unit.
One principal concern for the Commission in adopting any regulation is to provide a
high level of certainty for sources to avoid delayed compliance issues. By allowing the
Division to review the information the source used to qualify as a CU, the Commission is
providing that certainty for sources. In addition, this provision simplifies field and other
inspections by assuring that the Division has an accurate record of the operations and
equipment at the source.

Pollution Control Projects

The Commission believes that the Pollution Control Project (“PCP”) exclusion will only
be used for projects that result in a significant emissions increase in a “collateral”
pollutant. If the project does not cause increases in any regulated pollutant, it would not
need an exclusion from major modification requirements. Therefore, Section XVI.A.
requires that a source intending to use the PCP exclusion must submit an APEN and a
permit application, whether the PCP is listed or unlisted, as a significant emissions
increase is likely to occur. Under the federal rule, unlisted PCPs are required to obtain
permits or permit modifications. The Commission omitted the provision in the federal
rule requiring a written notice for listed projects to streamline duplicative requirements in
the federal PCP provisions and Parts B and C of the regulation. However, recognizing
the nature of PCPs, the Commission has retained the list of the information that must be



                                                                                          533
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

submitted to the Division. This list differs in some respects from the information required
in the permit provisions of Regulation Number 3.

The Commission also adopted a provision requiring owners or operators of PCPs to
retain records for a minimum of five years, consistent with the Operating Permit
recordkeeping timeframe. The federal rule does not specify a retention period. This
Commission action was appropriate to assure that sources and the Division have a
common understanding about the retention period. Finally, in order to comply with the
federal rule, the Commission included a public notice and comment opportunity for
PCPs.

I.GG. Adopted December 16, 2004
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

The primary purpose of this rule revision is to clarify the applicability of various
permitting and APEN provisions to sources within areas designated as
attainment/maintenance. Such clarification merely makes express the rule that applied
by interpretation. In most cases, the revision makes the requirements applicable to
attainment areas applicable to attainment/maintenance areas. One notable exception is
the requirement for construction permits for gasoline stations within the Denver 1-hour
ozone attainment/maintenance area, which requirement is specified in the SIP. 40 CFR
52.320(c)(94). This rule revision also includes other minor revisions, including reporting
requirements for condensate storage tanks subject to Regulation Number 3, Section
XII., and corrections for accuracy. This rule revision makes no significant, substantive
changes to the regulation. Nothing in this rule change exceeds the requirements of
federal law. This rule change is administrative in nature, is not intended to cause
reductions in air pollution, and therefore is exempt from the requirement for findings
pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

I.HH. Adopted July 21, 2005
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,



                                                                                         534
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulation Number 3 sets forth the Air Quality Control Commission’s permitting and air
pollutant emission notice programs for stationary sources. The Commission amended
Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section V. to make it consistent with the repeal of the
Emissions Trading Rule in Regulation Number 5 in December 2004. It was originally
anticipated that Regulation Number 5 would replace Part A, Section V. in Regulation
Number 3 as the Commission’s trading program, essentially identical to EPA’s. The text
of Part A, Section V. was italicized to represent provisions that would remain effective
until EPA approved the program in Regulation Number 5. EPA decided not to finalize its
trading program; therefore, it would never approve Regulation Number 5 as a SIP
component. The Commission deleted Section V.A.3., Part A that contained the
outmoded effective date. The Commission also replaced the italicized text with normal
font in all of Part A, Section V. to conform the text to these circumstances. In addition,
one hazardous air pollutant (2-butoxyethanol) was deleted to conform the State’s list (in
appendix b) to the Federal list of hazardous air pollutants.

The Common Provisions Regulation sets forth requirements and definitions that pertain
or may pertain to all of the other Commission regulations. EPA added four compounds
to its list of compounds (known as non-reactive volatile organic compounds) to be
excluded from the definition of volatile organic compound on the basis that these
compounds make a negligible contribution to tropospheric ozone formation. The
Commission adopted a conforming change to the definition of non-reactive volatile
organic compounds in the Common Provisions Regulation, Section I.G.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act give the Commission authority to
promulgate regulations necessary for the proper implementation of the act. Section 25-
7-105(12), C.R.S, provides specific authority to establish emission notice, construction
permit and operating permit programs. Some of the statutory parameters for these
programs are set forth in Sections 25-7-114 through 25-7-114.7 of the act and these


                                                                                         535
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Sections, in turn, provide statutory authority for the current revisions. Additional authority
for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-106, 25-7-119 and 25-7-132, C.R.S.

The Commission's adoption of this rule is taken pursuant to procedures set forth in
Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in Section
25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

The purpose of removing the italicized text from Regulation Number3, Part A, Section V.
was to prevent any ambiguity about the applicability of those provisions. Changing the
font of the text does not have any regulatory impact since the provisions were already in
effect and will remain in effect. Section V.A.3. was deleted because it was an outmoded
provision that was only necessary if Section V. was to be replaced by Regulation
Number 5. The Commission’s repeal of Regulation Number 5 made that provision
unnecessary. Removing the italics from Section V. also will eliminate confusion with the
italicized text in Part D of Regulation Number 3.

The purpose of the deletion of one hazardous air pollutant in appendix b of Regulation
Number 3 and the addition of four non-reactive volatile organic compounds to the list in
Section I.G. of the Common Provisions Regulation is to conform the Commission’s rules
to Federal regulations. The Federal rule changes were published on November 29,
2004. If the Commission did not make these revisions, the State rules would be more
restrictive than the Federal rules because these revisions serve to exempt the
compounds from emission standards, monitoring, reporting and record keeping
requirements.

I.II.   Adopted December 15, 2005
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S.


                                                                                          536
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105, C.R.S., gives
the Commission authority to promulgate regulations necessary for the proper
implementation of the Act, including rules to assure attainment and maintenance of
national Ambient Air Quality Standards and a prevention of significant deterioration
program. Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. provides specific authority to establish emission
notice, construction permit and operating permit programs. Some of the statutory
parameters for these programs are set forth in Sections 25-7-114 through 25-7-114.7 of
the Act and these Sections, in turn, provide statutory authority for the current revisions.
Additional authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-106, 25-7-119 and
25-7-132, C.R.S.

The Commission's adoption of this rule is taken pursuant to procedures and
requirements set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

On December 31, 2002, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) promulgated a
final rule revising the Major New Source Review [“NSR”] programs mandated by Parts
C and D of Title I of the Federal Clean Air Act. EPA changed the several Federal
provisions that were reflected in Colorado's SIP and in 2004 the Commission made
revisions to match the new Federal Rule.

In the 2002 Rule, EPA provided several new applicability options for stationary sources.
Among those options is treatment of some sources as clean units. To qualify, the source
operators must employ state-of-the-art pollution control technology as a result of a
major NSR determination within the last ten years, or demonstrate that control
technology being employed is comparable to the best available control technology or
lowest achievable emission rate. A source that qualifies as a clean unit would not have
to go through a traditional NSR applicability determination if it makes certain types of
changes in the future. The Commission’s 2004 Rule adopted the clean unit exemption
virtually without change.




                                                                                        537
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The 2002 Rule also expanded the exemption from major modifications for pollution
control projects (PCPS), originally provided only to electric utility steam generating units
in the 1992 WEPCO Rule. Under the 2002 Rule, collateral emissions increases
resulting from a PCP at an existing unit would not be included in calculations to
determine if a project involving that unit would trigger NSR.

As part of the 2002 rule, EPA allowed sources to calculate their actual and projected
actual emissions to determine whether a modification will trigger NSR. If a source
concludes that there is no “reasonable possibility” that emissions from a project will
trigger NSR, the source is not required to keep records substantiating that calculation.
However, the data and records would necessarily be generated by the owner or
operator to calculate its emissions.

The Commission did not follow the Federal Rule in this regard. In Section I.B.5., the
Commission imposed a requirement that owners or operators using the actual-to-
projected-actual applicability test for a project that requires a minor source permit or
modification [pursuant to Part A, Section I.B.26.; Part C, Section I.A.3.; or Part C,
Section X.; or any minor source permit under any provisions of Part B], submit an
otherwise-required permit application and include documentation adequate to
substantiate calculations made for the test.

On June 24, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit issued its decision and opinion in the case of State of New York v. U. S.
Environmental Protection Agency,----F.3D---- 2005 WL 1489698, 35 Envtl. L. Rep.
20,135, D.C.Cir., June 24, 2005. The court concluded that, regarding the clean unit
exemption from NSR, the plain language of the Clean Air Act indicated that Congress
intended to apply NSR to changes that increase actual emissions instead of potential or
allowable emissions. As a result, the court vacated the clean units portions of the
Federal Rule. The court also concluded that EPA lacks the authority to create pollution
control project exemptions from NSR and vacated the PCP portions of both the 1992
Wepco Rule and the 2002 rule. By vacating those portions of the Federal NSR rule, the
court terminated those exemptions to new source review.




                                                                                           538
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In view of the court’s decision, the Commission concluded that there was no basis to
retain the clean unit and pollution control project provisions in Regulation no. 3. The
federal rule no longer allows operators to use those provisions to determine applicability
of NSR to the source and Colorado law and the Colorado State Implementation Plan
should be conformed to federal law in this instance.

The D.C. Circuit court also addressed the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of
the federal rule. The 2002 rule excused a source from maintaining records of the
information and calculations used in the actual-to-projected actual applicability test if the
source determined that there was no “reasonable possibility” that the modification would
trigger NSR. These are the same records necessary to substantiate calculations made
for the applicability test. The court concluded that lack of evidence, in the form of data
and records, could inhibit enforceability of the NSR program in this context. The court
remanded this part of the rule.

By remanding this portion of the 2002 rule, the court allowed EPA to further consider its
position and return to the court at some time in the future for more proceedings in
support of the rule. In this case, EPA has the opportunity to explain how it can ensure
NSR compliance without the relevant data. There is no deadline, or requirement, for
EPA to take further action.

The Commission, in its 2004 rulemaking, elected to require that sources retain records
that, among other things, are essential to substantiate sources’ calculations using the
actual-to-projected-actual applicability test. The Commission also chose to require that
a source submit its data and calculations along with a permit application that would
otherwise be required for the physical or operational change. The Division reviews the
data and calculations only to confirm a source’s conclusions whether it triggers NSR.
The information submitted is then included in a non-enforceable appendix to a source’s
Title V Permit or as a permit note in the source’s construction permit

The recordkeeping requirement adopted by the Commission has benefits to both
sources and the Division, one of which is to avoid later uncertainty whether a project
triggered NSR. Accordingly, the Commission elected not to modify this part of
Regulation Number 3.


                                                                                          539
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The recordkeeping requirement adopted by the Commission has benefits to both
sources and the Division, one of which is to avoid later uncertainty whether a project
triggered NSR. Accordingly, the Commission elected not to modify Part D, Section I.B.5.
and to modify Part D, Sections V.A.7.c. and VI.B.5. in a manner, that maintains
consistency with Section I.B.5.

I.JJ.   Adopted March 16, 2006
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F, Best Available Retrofit Technology

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with
the requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § § 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
C.R.S (“the Act”).



Specific Statutory Authority

The Commission promulgates this regulation pursuant to the authority granted in
C.R.S., Sections 25-7-105 (general authorities and duties of the Commission for air
quality control); 25-7-105(1)(c), (authority to adopt a prevention of significant
deterioration program); 25-7-106 (additional authorities of the Commission for air quality
control); 25-7-106(1) (authority to exercise flexibility in developing effective air quality
control program); 25-7-106(2) (authority to hold public hearings); 25-7-109(1)(a)
(authority to require the use of air pollution controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority to adopt
emission control regulations pertaining to visible pollutants); 25-7-114.4(1) (authority to
adopt rules for the administration of permits); 25-5-114.5 (authority to require permit
applications and make determinations, and to provide for public participation), and 25-7-
1002 (authority to maintain a program that complies with the requirements of the
Federal act for prevention and remediation of significant deterioration of visibility in class
I Federal areas).

Basis and Purpose

On July 1, 1999, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency promulgated final
regulations that require each state to submit a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to


                                                                                           540
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

address regional haze. Those regulations require the State to establish a mechanism to
identify sources that must analyze installation of Best Available Retrofit Technology
(BART) and to require those analyses and implementation of resulting determinations.

The process begins with defining air pollution facilities that are “BART-eligible.” Among
the BART-eligible sources, some sources are “subject to BART.” Sources that are
subject to BART must complete an analysis and submit a proposal for determination by
the State of the Best Available Retrofit Technology applicable to that source. This
regulation establishes the mechanisms for this process. In many instances, the
regulation matches the Federal BART rule, including provision for a BART-Alternative
approach that would yield “better than BART” results.

The Commission elected to assume that all BART-eligible sources are subject to BART,
but require the Division to perform modeling to determine whether BART eligible
sources will cause or contribute to visibility impairment in any class I area. BART-eligible
sources that do not cause or contribute to visibility impairment in any class I area would
not be subject to BART. Individual sources would also have the opportunity to
demonstrate that they are not eligible or not subject to BART. This approach will provide
information necessary to develop the regional haze SIP on the schedule required by
Federal law and allows for challenges to decisions on whether individual sources must
complete BART analyses and to BART determinations by the State.

Sources subject to BART must evaluate all technologies through a five step case-by-
case BART analysis. The five steps require sources to: 1) Identify All Available Retrofit
Control Technologies; 2) Eliminate Technically Infeasible Options; 3) Evaluate Control
Effectiveness of Remaining Control Technologies, 4) Evaluate Impacts and Document
the Results and 5) Evaluate Visibility Impacts. The Commission intends that sources
conducting a case-by-case analysis will follow EPA’s Appendix Y to 40 CFR, Part 51 –
Guidelines for BART Determinations under the Regional Haze Rule. Sources must
evaluate the visibility impacts of each technology option using CALPUFF and/or
Division-approved modeling protocols.

This rule requires a source subject to BART to file an application for a construction
permit as the mechanism for submitting its BART analysis and proposal, and for seeking


                                                                                        541
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

a Division determination of BART for the source. The Commission concluded that using
the existing permitting mechanism was the most expedient way to present the analysis
for Division determination. The Commission further determined that applications for
BART determinations should be subject to the public comment process applicable to
construction permit applications for new or modified major sources.

When identifying the available retrofit control technologies, sources must include
appropriate BACT, LAER, NSPS, Pollution Prevention (P2) and other controls used by
similar sources. This can include new control technologies that are in the development
stages of licensing and commercial demonstration or commercial sales. Where EPA has
already conducted extensive analyses for a source category (e.g., EGUs) in relation to
the Federal BART Rule and determined that certain control technology would not be
required under the pertinent BART analyses, the Commission intends that a Colorado
source subject to BART may adequately demonstrate that the same technology
excluded under the EPA analyses would not be appropriate for the Colorado source by
showing sufficient similarity between the source evaluated by EPA and the Colorado
source.

Sources that identify specific options as technically infeasible must show to the
Division’s satisfaction that the technology is not commercially available or that specific
physical or chemical characteristics of the unit(s) or emission(s) involved will not allow
the technology to operate effectively.

The control effectiveness of any technology must be evaluated based on the highest
removal efficiency available for the technology. Sources may also look at lower
efficiencies in addition, but must include consideration of the best removal efficiency. If a
source has existing controls in place, improvements to the existing controls or running
the existing controls at a higher efficiency must be included in the analysis.

The Commission realizes that emission controls often have secondary impacts. Sources
must evaluate the costs of compliance including the average cost effectiveness and the
incremental cost effectiveness of each technology that is feasible for the source. Energy
impacts including the direct energy consumption for each technology and any locally
scarce fuels must be evaluated. Many control options have secondary impacts on other


                                                                                         542
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

media. Sources must evaluate any increases in hazardous waste, wastewater, or other
waste products, including increased usage of scarce resources such as water. In cases
where a facility has a limited remaining operating life, the source can place a federally
enforceable shutdown date in its operating permit.

The Commission intends that the Division use EPA’s presumptive limits as guidelines
when evaluating the BART analyses, with the understanding that there is a strong
presumption that power plants capable of generating 750 megawatts or greater will
meet these limits or do better, while the coal-fired electric generating units at smaller
plants need to consider the presumptive limits as part of the BART analysis. Further, if a
source submits an analysis demonstrating that it will meet the presumptive limits, then
the source will be presumed to have met the BART-analysis requirements, absent an
adequate showing to the contrary. If a source proposes a BART limit that exceeds EPA’s
presumptive limits, the Division would determine whether the BART analysis sufficiently
supports the higher limit or whether other controls or increased control efficiencies are
feasible. The Commission intends that the Division would establish a BART limit higher
than the presumptive limit if supported by the BART analysis.

The Federal rules require the State to submit a SIP that identifies BART-eligible sources
in the State, and requires the State to either adopt BART controls or adopt a BART
Alternative. In some respects, the approach in the proposed State rule to applying the
requirements of the Federal Act is not specifically mandated by the Federal rule, but left
to the discretion of the State. The Federal Act does not specify the administrative
decision-making process that will be used to make the relevant BART determinations.
The State rule establishes such a procedure, relying on existing permitting procedures
to the extent possible and appropriate. The procedure established by the State rule
affords sources an opportunity for a hearing on the relevant BART decisions. This
process is consistent with permitting practices and otherwise not more stringent than
Federal requirements.

NOx emissions from coal-fired power plants vary considerably depending on the design
of the boiler, the type of combustion controls and the type of coal used. Each of these
factors has an impact on the BART analysis. In setting presumptive BART limits for



                                                                                            543
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

NOx, EPA took into account available types of combustion control equipment, the
differences between boiler types, and ranks of coal (bituminous, sub-bituminous and
lignite), thereby indicating these factors should be a part of BART analyses—not solely
for large power plants subject to the presumptive levels for NOx, but for all coal-fired
power plants. These NOx-related characteristics should be taken into account in setting
BART limits. The BART guidelines allow states to take these characteristics into account
and it is the intent of the Commission that the Division should evaluate this issue as part
of BART analyses. Consistent with the Federal BART Guidelines, BART determinations
should take into account possible local economic disruption and unemployment that
might result from adverse impacts on coal sales related to BART determinations.

In consideration of the unusual number of significant and complex permit determinations
under the BART rule that will be become open to public comment about the same time,
the Commission intends that the Division consider reasonable flexibility in applying
procedures and time periods for public comment. The Commission also intends that all
agreements and BART alternatives be noticed together with the construction permit for
public comment purposes.

The Air Quality Control Commission expects that the Division will provide the
information required by 40 CFR 51.308.(d)(1) and (2) for the July 20,2006 regular
monthly meeting of the Commission.

I.KK. Adopted August 17, 2006
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

In accordance with the 1990 Amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has approved incorporation of the provisions
for the New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration programs



                                                                                           544
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(collectively referred to as “NSR”) into Colorado’s state implementation plan (SIP). In
June 2005, the Governor submitted revisions to Colorado’s NSR program to EPA
Region VIII for review and approval. During review of the submittal, Region VIII
identified minor issues with provisions in Regulation Number 3 that the Commission is
correcting to ensure continuing federal approval of Colorado’s NSR program. The
Commission is also adopting language to treat nitrogen oxides as an ozone precursor,
consistent with EPA’s promulgation of corresponding language on November 29, 2005.

Section 112 of the Clean Air Act requires EPA to maintain a list of hazardous air
pollutants (HAPs) subject to regulation under that Section. EPA occasionally revises the
list by adding or removing pollutants based on updated scientific evidence of health
impacts. EPA removed methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) from the list on December 19, 2005.
Therefore, the Commission is removing MEK from the list of HAPs in Regulation
Number 3, Part A, Appendix B.

On November 29, 2004, EPA revised the federal definition of volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) to specifically treat tertiary butyl (t-butyl) acetate as a VOC only for
certain purposes, including reporting and photochemical dispersion modeling. The
Commission is making corresponding changes to the definition of VOCs in the Common
Provisions Regulation, and is adding t-butyl acetate as a non-criteria reportable
pollutant in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Appendix B. Sources of t-butyl acetate will be
required to report the pollutant separately from their VOC emissions on an Air Pollutant
Emission Notice, and should not count their t-butyl acetate emissions when evaluating
compliance with applicable VOC emission limitations. The Division should combine
VOC emissions and reported t-butyl acetate emissions when conducting dispersion
modeling for sources of t-butyl acetate.

The Commission is also correcting several regulatory reference errors in Parts A, C, and
D.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105, C.R.S., gives
the Commission authority to promulgate regulations necessary for the proper
implementation of the Act, including rules to assure attainment and maintenance of


                                                                                       545
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

national Ambient Air Quality Standards and a prevention of significant deterioration
program. Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. provides specific authority to establish emission
notice, construction permit and operating permit programs. Some of the statutory
parameters for these programs are set forth in Sections 25-7-114 through 25-7-114.7 of
the Act and these Sections, in turn, provide statutory authority for the current revisions.
Additional authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-106, 25-7-119 and
25-7-132, C.R.S.

The Commission's adoption of this rule is taken pursuant to procedures and
requirements set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

The Commission is revising Regulation Number 3 to address issues identified by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) during review of Colorado’s state
implementation plan (SIP) in 2005, to incorporate federal changes to the New Source
Review program, to revise the definition of volatile organic compounds and the list of
hazardous air pollutants consistent with federal actions, and to make miscellaneous
technical corrections. These changes will help to ensure continued approval by EPA of
Colorado’s New Source Review program and will provide consistent treatment by EPA
and the Division of hazardous air pollutants and volatile organic compounds. These
changes will also correct regulatory cross-references within Regulation Number 3,
which will make the regulation easier to understand. Further, these revisions include any
typographical errors within the regulation.

I.LL. Adopted December 15, 2006
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.D.1.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4),
C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis

The Air Quality Control Commission has adopted revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. in
order to increase the annual emission fees charged to air pollution sources in Colorado


                                                                                         546
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

commencing in 2007. The revised fees are within the statutory limit set by Section 25-7-
114.7, C.R.S. The increase is necessary to address decreasing fee revenues used to
fund existing programs, as well as to provide additional funding for requested additional
permitting and inspection personnel. The proposed increase was addressed at length
during a subcommittee process involving the Commission, the Division, stakeholders
and other interested parties. The revision is a collaborative effort of the Division and
interested stakeholders.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-114.7 of
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), which allows the
Commission to set annual emission fees for regulated and hazardous air pollutants.

Purpose

The revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. were adopted to cover anticipated revenue
shortfalls and fund requested additional FTE that will be used to address the Division’s
permitting backlog and the increased workload arising from the rapid growth of oil and
gas sources in Colorado.

I.MM. Adopted October 18, 2007
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.D.1.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4),
C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis

The Air Quality Control Commission has adopted revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. in
order to increase the annual emission fees charged to air pollution sources in Colorado
commencing in 2007. The revised fees are at the statutory limit set by Section 25-7-
114.7, C.R.S. The increase is necessary to address decreasing fee revenues used to
fund existing programs. These revisions are concurrent with other recent fee
adjustments to ensure appropriate funding for the program.




                                                                                           547
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-114.7 of
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), which allows the
Commission to set annual emission fees for regulated and hazardous air pollutants.

Purpose

The revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. were adopted to cover anticipated revenue
shortfalls and fund requested additional FTE that will be used to address the Division’s
permitting backlog and the increased workload arising from the rapid growth of oil and
gas sources in Colorado.

I.NN. Adopted December 21, 2007
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part E, Best Available Retrofit Technology

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § § 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
C.R.S (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Commission promulgates this regulation pursuant to the authority granted in
Sections 25-7-105(1)(c), C.R.S. (authority to adopt a prevention of significant
deterioration program); 25-7-109(1)(a) (authority to require the use of air pollution
controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to
visible pollutants); 25-7-114.4(1) (authority to adopt rules for the administration of
permits); and 25-7-1002 (authority to maintain a program that complies with the
requirements of the federal act for prevention and remediation of significant
deterioration of visibility in class I federal areas).

Basis and Purpose

This regulatory change places the Division’s BART determinations and associated
requirements in a new section of Regulation Number 3, Part E - Section VI.




                                                                                         548
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

EPA has raised concerns regarding the practical enforceability of the Colorado’s BART
determinations. The emission limits and averaging times for each of Colorado’s BART
sources will be included in each Title V permit, and included in the proposed SIP. The
Title V permits and the SIP are each federally enforceable when approved by EPA.
Nonetheless, EPA believes that more is needed to ensure the practical enforceability of
these BART limits.

To address EPA’s concerns the BART emission limits and related provisions concerning
the installation, operation and maintenance of BART controls have also been added to
Regulation Number3, and new Section VI will become part of Colorado’s SIP.

The foregoing approach is largely similar to the approach taken on the state’s PM-10
SIP in 2001, where the state agreed to include certain emission limits in Regulation
Number 1.

I.OO. Adopted February 21, 2008
Revisions to Regulation Number 3

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4),
C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis and Purpose

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (“Commission”) intends to revise the
provisions of Regulation Number 3, Part A and B to include PM2.5 as a Colorado
regulated pollutant, to address inadvertent removals of rule revisions previously adopted
by the Commission, and finally to correct typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors found throughout Regulation Number 3.

Regarding PM2.5 emissions, the EPA promulgated a revised national ambient air quality
standard (“NAAQS”) for PM2.5 emissions on October 17, 2006. The effective date for
the new standard was December 18, 2006. The Commission intends to apply the
Regulation Number 3 requirements to PM2.5 emissions.

Additionally, the Commission intends to reinstate several previously adopted revisions
and to correct several typographical errors in Regulation Number 3.


                                                                                       549
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Note that the Commission intends to defer any decision to exclude ethanol production
facilities from the major stationary source definition of “chemical process plant” as
proposed in the Federal Register on May 1, 2007 [see 72FR24060] until all relevant
pending matters at the federal level are resolved.

PM2.5 Emissions

The Commission intends to apply the Regulation Number 3, Part A and B requirements
to PM2.5 emissions by 1) including PM2.5 emissions under the “air pollutant” and
“criteria pollutant” definitions found in Part A, Sections I.B.6 and I.B.16, and 2) setting
permitting thresholds as the same level as PM10 emissions (revise Part B, Sections
II.D.2 and II.D.3). Note that the EPA has not yet promulgated the PM2.5 New Source
Review (“NSR”) Implementation Rule, which will specify how PM2.5 emissions should
be treated for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and major source NSR
sources. Upon promulgation, the Commission intends to incorporate those changes into
Regulation Number 3, Part D as well.

Inadvertent Removals of Rule Revisions

Several previously adopted rule revisions were discovered as having been inadvertently
removed from Regulation Number 3. The Commission intends to reinstate these
previously adopted revisions.

Specifically, the Commission intends to:

Re-identify volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) as being subject to the Reasonably
Available Control Technology (“RACT”) requirements. During the December 16, 2004
Regulation Number 3 rulemaking, VOCs were inadvertently removed from the RACT
requirements. Since the minor source RACT requirement for VOC emissions were part
of the State Implementation Plan, EPA considers removal of VOCs from minor source
RACT requirements as backsliding. Therefore this revision should be reinserted into
Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2.

Re-insert the inadvertent removal of the following text previously adopted by the
Commission on December 16, 2004:




                                                                                          550
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Reference to “attainment/maintenance” areas in Part B, Sections II.D.1.c.(iii)(B),
III.B.5.d., and III.C.1.a., and

Remove exemption reference to Denver Metropolitan PM10 attainment/maintenance
area and change reference to “Denver Metropolitan PM10 and ozone
attainment/maintenance area” to “Denver 1-hour ozone attainment/maintenance area”
in Part B, Section II.D.1.f.

Typographical, Grammatical and Formatting Errors

The Commission intends to correct several specific typographical errors in Regulation
Number 3.

Specifically, the Commission intends to:

Revise “citric acid plants” to “nitric acid plants” in Part A, Section I.B.23.b.(ix), and

Revise incorrect citation in Part B, Section I.A.

In addition, the Commission intends to correct grammatical and formatting errors in
Regulation Number 3.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105, C.R.S., gives
the Commission authority to promulgate regulations necessary for the proper
implementation of the Act, including rules to assure attainment and maintenance of the
NAAQS and a PSD program. Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. provides specific authority to
establish emission notice, construction permit and operating permit programs. Key
statutory parameters for these programs are set forth in Sections 25-7-114 through 25-
7-114.7 of the Act and provide statutory authority for the current revisions. Additional
authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-106, 25-7-119 and 25-7-132,
C.R.S.

The Commission's adoption of this rule is taken pursuant to procedures and
requirements set forth in Sections 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

I.PP. Adopted May 14, 2008
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F


                                                                                            551
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § § 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
C.R.S (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Commission promulgates this regulation pursuant to the authority granted in
Sections 25-7-105(1)(c), C.R.S. (authority to adopt a prevention of significant
deterioration program); 25-7-109(1)(a) (authority to require the use of air pollution
controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to
visible pollutants); 25-7-114.4(1) (authority to adopt rules for the administration of
permits); and 25-7-1002 (authority to maintain a program that complies with the
requirements of the federal act for prevention and remediation of significant
deterioration of visibility in Class I federal areas).

Basis and Purpose

The original language in Section IV.B established that the Division could not require post
combustion NOx controls for any BART source. The Division has reviewed the data
available on post combustion NOx controls in the EPA BART regulation and requested
that the Commission narrowly modify the exclusion of post combustion NOx control. The
EPA BART regulation investigated post combustion NOx control for Electric Utility
Generators (EGUs) and generally determined that post combustion NOx control was
only necessary in limited cases. The Commission believes that this analysis should be
extended to boilers, as they are similar types of equipment. The Commission does not
believe that the analysis done by EPA in the BART rule can be extended to cement
production because of the dissimilar nature of the overall process of operation between
boilers and cement kilns. The Commission narrowly modifies the provisions regarding
the analysis of post combustion NOx controls as it relates to non-EGUs and non-boilers.
The Commission believes this narrow amendment to Regulation Number 3 is
appropriate and supported by the evidence in the hearing record.

I.QQ. Adopted September 18, 2008
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A


                                                                                         552
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., for
new and revised regulations.

Basis

The Air Quality Control Commission has adopted revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. in
order to increase the annual emission fees charged to air pollution sources in Colorado
commencing in 2008. The revised fees are at the statutory limit set by Section 25-7-
114.7, C.R.S. The proposal increases the fees to the levels enacted by the General
Assembly, and signed by the Governor, in SB08-055, reflected in Section 25-7-114.7,
C.R.S. as amended.

Specific Statutory Authority

The specific statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in Sections 25-7-114.7 of
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), which allows the
Commission to set annual emission fees for regulated and hazardous air pollutants.

Purpose

The revisions to Part A, Section VI.D.1. were adopted to provide necessary revenue for
existing and anticipated revenue shortfalls, and fund additional legislatively-authorized
FTE and legislatively-directed air quality monitoring.

I.RR. Adopted December 12, 2008
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, B and C

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4),
C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis

As of November 20, 2007, the EPA’s deferral of a nonattainment designation for the 8-
Hour Ozone Nonattainment Area expired, signifying that the area is now considered
nonattainment, or in violation of the 1997 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS of 0.08 parts per
million (ppm) for ground level ozone. This area is now known as the Denver Metro



                                                                                        553
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Area/North Front Range Nonattainment (DMA/NFR) Nonattainment Area. The
DMA/NRF Nonattainment Area includes all of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield,
Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson Counties as well as portions of Larimer and Weld
Counties.

Pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act, Colorado must prepare and submit a State
Implementation Plan (SIP) to the EPA no later than by June 30, 2009. This plan must
propose measures designed to reduce ground level ozone precursor pollutants. The
plan must provide for reductions in these precursor pollutants sufficient to ensure that
ozone is reduced to below the 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS no later than 2010. If Colorado
fails to submit a sufficient SIP by the aforementioned deadline, the Clean Air Act
mandates that the U.S.E.P.A. prepare and implement a Federal Implementation Plan in
Colorado.

Pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), the Commission must adopt such measures as
are necessary to ensure compliance with the NAAQS. The Commission has adopted
these rules to carry out this mandate. Specifically, the Commission has adopted
revisions to Regulation Number 3, Parts A, B and C to address ozone formation in the
DMA/NFR Nonattainment Area. Specifically, the Commission has adopted revisions to
reduce an ozone precursor, volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions, and thus
reduce ozone formation. These revisions are necessary to ensure attainment of the
current 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS set at 0.08 ppm. Also, these revisions help Colorado
make progress toward eventual compliance with the new ozone NAAQS set at 0.075
ppm as well as the Governor’s directive to proactively and pragmatically reduce ozone
levels.

Photochemical grid dispersion modeling indicates that without further emission controls,
Colorado will attain the 8-hour standard by 2010. The dispersion modeling reflects that
Colorado would attain the standard by a narrow margin – within 0.001 ppm on a
standard of 0.08 ppm. Photochemical dispersion modeling analysis is the primary tool
used to assess present and future air quality trends, and is required for EPA to approve
the state attainment demonstration in the SIP. Dispersion modeling results have an
inherent level of uncertainty, as recognized in EPA guidance, and it is appropriate for a



                                                                                       554
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

state to use other tools at its disposal, including further control measures, to address
and mitigate any uncertainties that can be present in dispersion modeling. It is
appropriate for the state to use such tools to increase the confidence in and otherwise
ensure that the predicted modeling results are accurate and borne-out in future air
quality monitoring demonstrating attainment with the 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS.

In addition, pursuant to EPA guidance, if modeling results indicate that the highest
ozone levels will fall between 0.082 and 0.087 ppm, Colorado must conduct a “weight of
the evidence” analysis and other supplemental analysis in order to corroborate the
modeling results. Colorado’s model results are within this range, and thus the state has
conducted this analysis. The analysis supports the conclusion that Colorado will attain
the standard by 2010, although by a narrow margin. To increase the certainty of the
model results and the weight of evidence demonstration, the Commission concludes
that these additional control measures are necessary to carry out its mandate to adopt a
SIP that contains those elements that are necessary to assure attainment of the 8-Hour
Ozone NAAQS.

In order to maintain consistency between state regulations and federally enforceable
regulations contained in the SIP, specifically changes to the exemptions, the
Commission intends these revisions be adopted into the SIP.

Statutory Authority

The statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in the Colorado Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Act (“Act”), C.R.S.§ 25-7-101, et seq., specifically, C.R.S. §25-7-
105(1)(a) (authorizing a comprehensive state implementation plan which will assure
attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS), 105(12) (authorizing rules necessary to
implement the provisions of the emission notice and construction permit programs and
the minimum elements of the operating permit program), 109(1)(a), (2) and (3)
(authorizing rules requiring effective practical air pollution controls for significant sources
and categories of sources, including rules pertaining to nitrogen oxides and
hydrocarbons, photochemical substances, as well as rules pertaining to the storage and
transfer of petroleum products and any other VOCs) and § 25-7-301 (authorizing the
development of a program for the attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS).


                                                                                           555
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Purpose

These revisions to Regulation Number 3 are part of an overall ozone reduction strategy
to be incorporated into Colorado’s SIP for ozone. The Commission intends that this
overall ozone reduction strategy accomplishes five objectives: A) reduce VOC and
nitrogen oxides’ (NOx) emissions from oil and gas operations in the ozone
nonattainment area, B) revise the control requirements for condensate tanks by
transitioning from a system-wide to an emissions threshold control strategy in the ozone
nonattainment area, C) expand VOC RACT requirements such that all ozone
nonattainment areas are subject to Regulation 7’s RACT requirements, D) clarify how
the RACT requirements in Regulations 3 and 7 interact in the ozone nonattainment
area, E) improve the Division’s inventory of specific source category emissions state-
wide; and F) make typographical, grammatical and formatting changes for greater clarity
and readability.

The Commission is adopting revisions to Part A to eliminate exemptions for certain
facilities from air pollution emission notice requirements. These facilities include:

•      Petroleum industry flares less than 5 tons per year (tpy) emissions,

•      Specified crude oil truck loading equipment,

•      Oil/gas production wastewater

•      Crude oil storage tanks,

•      Surface water storage impoundment, and

•      Condensate tanks with production 730 BBL/year or less.

The Commission is also adopting revisions to Part B to exempt the following facilities
from construction permit requirements:

•      Petroleum industry flares less than 5 tons per year (tpy) emissions,

•      Specified crude oil truck loading equipment,

•      Oil/gas production wastewater, except for commercial wastewater processing
       facilities, and




                                                                                        556
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

•      Specified crude oil storage tanks.

The Commission is adopting revisions to Part C to clarify that the chemical storage tank
exemption and surface water storage impoundment exemptions do not apply to
specified production wastewater.

In support of objectives A and E, the Commission adopts these revisions to Regulation
Number 3, Parts A, B and C to revise APEN reporting exemptions for specific source
categories (Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D., Part B, Section II.D., and Part C,
Section II.E.).

Improve Emissions Inventory

The Commission is changing several categorical APEN reporting and/or permitting
exemptions in Regulation Number 3, Parts A, B and C in order to improve the Division’s
emissions inventory and for the sake of equity. These changes fall in three categories:
1) specific APEN and permitting exemptions were removed altogether; 2) specific APEN
exemptions were removed and permit exemptions were kept in place; and 3) specific
APEN and permit exemptions were clarified, but kept in place.

Remove APEN and Permitting Exemptions

The Commission has eliminated the APEN exemption for condensate tanks because
the exemption was based on an emission level used in attainment areas. The Division
will now be able to develop a complete inventory of condensate tanks and their
emissions.

Condensate tanks are now subject to the same APEN requirements as other source
categories in the 8-Hour Ozone Nonattainment Area. Additionally, the condensate tank
exemption is based on a standardized emission factor, 13.7 pounds of VOC emissions
per barrel of production, which may not be representative of each natural gas field.
Even though the exemption was removed sources may still make use of the generic
APEN exemption, upon determining that actual annual uncontrolled emissions fall below
the applicable de minimis levels identified in Regulation Number 3, Part A. If based on
this generic exemption, a source is determined to be APEN exempt, the source is also
permit exempt.



                                                                                       557
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Remove APEN Exemptions, Keep Permit Exemptions

The Commission has removed specific source category APEN exemptions for
petroleum industry flares, crude oil truck loading, oil production wastewater and crude
oil storage tanks to improve the inventory of actual uncontrolled emissions. Sources
may still use the generic APEN exemption, upon determining that actual annual
uncontrolled emissions fall below the applicable de minimis levels. The Commission is
maintaining current permitting exemptions until such time that the APEN data justify the
need for permitting activities.

Revise APEN and/or Permitting Exemptions

Similarly, based on the Division’s experience, actual emissions from several source
categories specific to oil and gas-related operations may be higher than previously
believed. Thus the APEN and permitting exemptions for surface water impoundments
(Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D.1.uuu. and Part C, Section II.E.3.yyy.) were
revised to exclude from the exemption, oil and gas production wastewater (similar to
Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D.1.uu.). Also, the APEN and permitting
exemptions for chemical storage tanks (Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section II.E.3.n.)
were revised to exclude oil and gas production wastewater or commercial facilities’
operations (similar to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D.1.uuu. and Part C,
Section II.E.3.yyy.).

Finally, the APEN and permitting exemptions for fuel storage dispensing (Regulation
Number 3, Part A, Section II.D.1.cccc. and Part C, Section II.E.3.cccc.) were revised to
expand the applicability of the current exemption from specifically the 1-Hour Ozone
Nonattainment or Attainment/Maintenance Area to any ozone nonattainment area for
the sake of equity.

I.SS. Adopted December 19, 2008
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S.




                                                                                       558
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Commission promulgates this regulation pursuant to the authority granted in
Sections 25-7-105(1)(c), C.R.S. (authority to adopt a prevention of significant
deterioration program); 25-7-109(1)(a) (authority to require the use of air pollution
controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to
visible pollutants); 25-7-114.4(1) (authority to adopt rules for the administration of
permits); and 25-7-1002(authority to maintain a program that complies with the
requirements of the federal act for prevention and remediation of significant
deterioration of visibility in Class I federal areas.

Basis and Purpose

This regulatory change updates the Division’s BART determinations by adding
determinations for Colorado Springs Utilities Drake Units 5, 6, and 7 and CEMEX
Portland cement facility regarding limits and averaging times for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxides and particulates.

The proposed change provides state and federally enforceable limitations for the BART
sources. States must ensure that “each source subject to BART maintain the control
equipment required by this subpart and establish procedures to ensure such equipment
is properly operated and maintained”. 40 CFR 51.308(e)(v). This is required for SIP
approval.

I.TT.   Adopted October 21, 2010
Revisions to Parts A, B, C and D to Address Greenhouse Gases or GHGs

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103(4) and
(12.5), C.R.S. for new and revised regulations.

Basis




                                                                                         559
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Regulation Number 3 is designed to implement substantive regulatory programs
authorized under the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (“Act”) including
provisions of the State Implementation Plan addressed in C.R.S. Section 25-7-
105(1)(a), emission control regulations addressed in C.R.S. Section 25-7-105(1)(b),
Prevention of Significant Deterioration requirements addressed in C.R.S. Section 25-7-
105(1)(c), regulations as may be necessary and proper for the orderly and effective
administration of construction permits and renewable operating permits addressed in
C.R.S. Section 25-7-114.4(1), as well as other authorized programs under the Act. The
current revisions have been promulgated in order to facilitate this goal. The revisions
were proposed by the Air Pollution Control Division based on EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule.
On June 3, 2010, EPA promulgated the “Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title
V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule.” See 75 Fed. Reg. 31514 (June 3, 2010). EPA’s
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Tailoring Rule was designed to tailor the applicability criteria
that determine which stationary sources and modification projects become subject to
permitting requirements for GHGs under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration
(PSD) and Title V Permitting Programs of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, under C.R.S. Section 25-7-105(1)(a) authorizes the Air Quality Control
Commission (Commission) to adopt rules necessary to implement the Act, and to adopt
and revise comprehensive State Implementation Plans (SIP) to assure attainment and
maintenance of national ambient air quality standards. C.R.S. Section 25-7-109
authorizes the Commission to adopt rules that are consistent with state policy regarding
air pollution and with federal recommendations and requirements. C.R.S. Section 25-7-
109(2) authorizes the Commission to regulate oxides of carbon, oxides of nitrogen and
other chemicals, which encompasses the pollutant GHG. Additionally, Colorado is
authorized to regulate GHGs under PSD and Title V in C.R.S. Sections 25-7-103(1.5),
25-7-114(3), 25-7-114.3, and 25-7-201. Additional authority for these revisions is set
forth in C.R.S. Sections 25-7-106 and 25-7-109, and 25-7-114. In order to maintain
consistency between state regulations and federally enforceable regulations contained
in Colorado SIP, the Commission intends these revisions be adopted into the SIP.



                                                                                         560
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Purpose

The Commission has adopted revisions throughout Regulation Number 3 to address
GHG regulation in Colorado. These revisions were made to incorporate EPA’s GHG
Tailoring Rule into Colorado’s Title V and PSD Permitting Programs, and to extend
synthetic minor permitting to Colorado’s stationary sources seeking federally
enforceable limits to avoid major source or major stationary source applicability
thresholds specific to GHGs.

EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule establishes a phased approach for applying the CAA’s PSD
and Title V Permitting Programs to the sum of six GHGs.1 The GHG Tailoring Rule has
several different components including permitting thresholds and timing, commitments
to the next steps, implementation options, and information requests.
1 The GHG air pollutant consists of the aggregate sum of six GHG gases: carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane
(CH4), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). These species of each GHG class are
treated in aggregate, based on the total carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).

On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held that GHGs are included in the definition
of “air pollutant” under CAA Section 302(g). Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497
(2007). As part of this decision, the Court mandated EPA to determine under CAA
Section 202(a) whether GHG emissions from new motor vehicles endanger public
health or welfare, or if too much scientific uncertainty remains to make such a
determination. 2
2 CAA Section 202(a) requires EPA to “prescribe (and from time to time revise) … standards applicable to the emission of any air
pollutant from any class or classes of new motor vehicles … which … cause, or contribute to, air pollution which may reasonably be
anticipated to endanger public health or welfare.”

On December 7, 2009, EPA issued the Endangerment Finding and the Cause or
Contribute Finding, both addressing GHGs under CAA Section 202(a). See 74 Fed.
Reg. 66496 (Dec. 15, 2009). EPA’s Endangerment Finding found that GHGs endanger
the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The Cause or
Contribute Finding found that the combination of the six well-mixed GHGs from new
motor vehicles contributes to the GHG pollution which threatens public health and
welfare. EPA’s findings were a prerequisite to establishing GHG standards for light-duty




                                                                                                                             561
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

vehicles, but they did not in themselves impose any requirements on GHG stationary
sources.

On May 7, 2010, EPA published the Light-Duty Vehicle Rule (LDVR) jointly with the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to reduce GHG emissions and improve
fuel economy of new passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger
vehicles. See 75 Fed. Reg. 25324 (May 7, 2010). The new GHG emissions standards
under the LDVR first apply to model year 2012 vehicles and become increasingly more
stringent through model year 2016.

EPA addressed the implications of GHGs as a newly regulated pollutant under the
LDVR through the Johnson Memo (“EPA’s Interpretation of Regulations that Determine
Pollutants Covered by Federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Permit
Program”). See 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (March 29, 2010). EPA concluded that a previously
unregulated pollutant is subject to regulation once it is subject to actual control of
emissions under the CAA or EPA regulation, and that control requirement takes effect.
Accordingly, EPA concluded that once the LDVR takes effect on January 2, 2011 (the
earliest date that a model year 2012 vehicle could be put on the market), GHGs will
become regulated pollutants under the PSD and Title V permitting programs. Absent the
Tailoring Rule, GHGs would then be subject to regulation at the existing PSD and Title V
thresholds of 100 / 250 tons per year (tpy).

The foregoing federal actions now require appropriate changes to Colorado’s
regulations. Colorado law already provides the Commission authority and an obligation
to regulate GHGs under the state’s PSD and Title V permitting programs. Colorado’s
definition of “air pollutant” mirrors EPA’s definition under the CAA. See C.R.S. Section
25-7-103(1.5) and CAA Section 302(g).3 Following the U.S. Supreme Court’s holding in
Massachusetts v. EPA, GHGs are included in the definition of air pollutant under CAA
Section 302(g). Colorado’s PSD program applies PSD permitting requirements to new
major stationary sources and major modifications. C.R.S. Section 25-7-210. Similarly,
Colorado defines a Title V “major source” as “any stationary source […] that directly
emits, or has the potential to emit, one hundred tons per year or more of any air
pollutant.” C.R.S. Section 25-7-114(3)(b). Furthermore, a Title V permit is required for



                                                                                         562
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

any major source. C.R.S. Section 25-7-114.3(1)(b). The Division’s proposed changes to
Regulation Number 3 align these key definitions to Colorado’s statute (which in turn
map to the CAA) and add a definition of “subject to regulation,” as defined in the
Tailoring Rule.
3. The CAA defines “air pollutant” as “… any air pollution agent or combination of such agents, including any physical, chemical,
biological, radioactive […] substance or matter which is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air.” CAA Section 302(g).
Colorado’s statute defines “air pollutant” as “… means any fume, smoke, particulate matter, vapor, or gas or any combination thereof
which is emitted into or otherwise enters the atmosphere, including, but not limited to, any physical, chemical, biological, radioactive
[…] substance or matter …” C.R.S. Section 25-7-103(1.5).

The Commission’s mandate includes promulgation of regulations to reduce air pollution,
including the promulgation of a comprehensive state implementation plan which “shall
meet all requirements of the federal act and shall be revised whenever necessary or
appropriate.” C.R.S. Section 25-7-105; see also C.R.S. Section 25-7-102 (legislative
declaration). Furthermore, Colorado’s statutes provide that “In the formulation of each
emission control regulation, the commission shall take into consideration […] the state
policy regarding air pollution, as set forth in section 25-7-102 [and] Federal
recommendations and requirements.” C.R.S. Section 25-7-109(1)(b).

In addition to Colorado’s statutory authority, federal PSD and Title V provisions under
the CAA also place requirements on states to maintain PSD and Title V Permitting
Programs in compliance with federal requirements. The chain of events described
renders GHGs to be considered a regulated pollutant subject to the federal PSD and
Title V permitting requirements. Under PSD, EPA mandates that “each applicable
implementation plan shall contain emission limitations and such other measures as may
be necessary, as determined under regulations promulgated under this part, to prevent
significant deterioration of air quality …” CAA Section 161. Under Title V, the CAA
provides that “Whenever the Administrator makes a determination that a permitting
authority is not adequately administering and enforcing a program, or portion thereof, in
accordance with the requirements of this title, the Administrator shall provide notice to
the State and may, prior to the expiration of the 18-month period referred to in
paragraph (2), in the Administrator’s discretion, apply any of the sanctions specified in
section 179(b).” CAA Section 502(i)(1).




                                                                                                                                   563
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In order to avoid both the possibility of sanctions for failure to comply with EPA’s
permitting programs, as well as the unsustainable workload of regulating GHGs at the
existing permitting thresholds of 100/250 tpy, the Division proposes regulatory revisions
to comport with EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule.

Permitting Thresholds and Timing

Regarding permitting thresholds and timing, EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule identifies three
steps – Steps 1, 2 and 3 – to phase in GHG permitting requirements over time. This
rulemaking addresses only Steps 1 and 2, as discussed in EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule.
While EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule generally discusses a Step 3,4 it provides few details
on any associated timing and thresholds; instead EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule establishes
an enforceable commitment to complete another rulemaking no later than by July 1,
2012 for Step 3 and beyond. The Commission intends to expressly address these future
actions expeditiously as they arise.
4 EPA proposes to promulgate a separate rule specific to Step 3 by July 1, 2012. It is anticipated that this Step 3 will span from July
1, 2013 through April 30, 2016. EPA offers limited regulatory details, but states that no stationary sources having potential to emit
GHG emissions of less than 50,000 tons per year CO2e would trigger PSD or Title V Permitting Programs under the Tailoring Rule
due to GHG emissions alone. No other details are provided.

This rulemaking establishes key definitions and the authority to regulate GHGs as well
as addresses Steps 1 and 2 as identified in EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule. Step 1 spans
from January 2, 2011 through June 30, 2011, and applies PSD and Title V permitting
requirements to GHG emissions at “anyway sources,” or stationary sources that are
already subject to these permitting requirements for non-GHG pollutants. During Step 1,
no source shall be required to obtain a Title V operating permit or PSD permit solely due
to GHG emissions. Step 2 spans from July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2013. In Step 2, in
addition to the requirements of Step 1, PSD and Title V permitting requirements apply to
stationary sources which may be major5 for GHG emissions and no other regulated
pollutant.
5 Major source or major stationary source.

EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule sets a 100,000 tpy carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)
applicability threshold for stationary sources that are major for GHG and no other non-
GHG NSR regulated pollutant for PSD, and re-affirms that a significant emissions



                                                                                                                                   564
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

increase and a significant net emissions increase must occur in order to trigger PSD
review. PSD and Title V permitting applicability thresholds and significance levels have
traditionally been determined on a mass-basis. However, the Tailoring Rule sets a PSD
significance level for GHG at 75,000 tpy on a CO2e basis. There are distinct units of
measure used in identifying GHG applicability thresholds and significance levels. Some
are mass-based and some are CO2e-based. The distinction between the two focuses
on whether or not the global warming potential (GWP) is applied to each individual GHG
species before summing the total of GHG classes for comparison to the appropriate
value.

The Commission recognizes that the EPA is currently developing GHG permitting
guidance. At its earliest convenience prior to January 2, 2011, the Division is instructed
to provide permitting guidance to sources to minimize uncertainty.

Permitting and Application Requirements

The Commission recognizes the difficulties in developing a GHG inventory in short
order, and directs the Division to request permit applicants which are required to provide
a GHG inventory to submit one by a reasonable deadline set by the Division.

See the citations below for further information.

Complete Application

In Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section III.C.3.a., the Commission requires that all
information related to the “emissions of pollutants sufficient to verify which requirements
are applicable to the source” (which includes GHG) must be included in a complete
application. Similarly, 40 C.F.R. 70.5(c)(3)(i) requires that Title V applications must
include emissions of all regulated air pollutants.

Further, in Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section IV.B.4, the Commission requires that a
source update its permit application to address any requirements that become
applicable after the date the source has submitted its application, prior to issuance of
the draft permit for public comment.

Application Shield




                                                                                          565
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section II.B., the Commission grants a defense to an
enforcement action to sources which submit a timely and complete application under
Part C until a final determination on the permit has been made. Per Regulation Number
3, Part C, Section IV.D., after an application is deemed complete, the Division may
request additional information in writing and set a reasonable deadline for response.
However, the application shield defense is not available if the source “fails to submit by
the deadline specified in writing by the Division any additional information identified as
necessary to process the application, or to otherwise supplement its application in
accordance with the provisions of Regulation Number 3, Part C, Sections IV.B.3. and
IV.B.4.”

Applicable Requirement

In Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.9., the Commission defines applicable
requirement consistently with that definition found in 40 C.F.R. Part 70, Section 70.2.
Based on these definitions the mandatory GHG Reporting Rule requirements codified in
40 C.F.R. Part 98 do not meet the definitions of applicable requirements at this time;
however, any GHG BACT requirement or other federally enforceable GHG
requirements, including GHG synthetic minor permit conditions necessary to avoid
major source or major stationary source thresholds are considered applicable
requirements.

Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.B.4. requires that any operating permit address
“all applicable requirements,” however existing Title V sources that do not undergo PSD
review should not trigger any GHG applicable requirements.

“Subject to Regulation or Requirement”

Prior to this rulemaking the Title V operating permit requirements of Regulation Number
3, Part C, Sections II.A.1.g., II.E.1. and II.E.2. already contained the language “subject
to regulation or requirement”, followed by a specific reference to the Federal Act or
another part of Regulation Number 3. The phrase “subject to regulation” was addressed
in the Johnson Memo, “EPA’s Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants
Covered by the Federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Permit Program”
and later codified in the GHG Tailoring Rule and Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section


                                                                                          566
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.B.44. See 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (March 29, 2010). For the purpose of these sections,
the definition of “subject to regulation” is not applicable and the full phrase “subject to
regulation or requirement” relates to the reference at the end of those statements.

Rescission Clause

The Commission recognizes the uncertainty facing GHG stationary sources, given the
potential for future federal legislation and the extensive pending legal challenges to
GHG regulation under the CAA. The Commission intends GHG regulation in Colorado
be consistent with the Federal Act, and has inserted a rescission clause making the
effectiveness of the term Subject to Regulation dependent upon federal enforceability.
Should either federal legislation or Court rulings from the District of Columbia Circuit
Court of Appeals or the U.S. Supreme Court limit or render ineffective the regulation of
GHG emissions under the PSD or Title V provisions of the Federal Act, then GHGs shall
only be subject to regulation under this Regulation Number 3 for the affected permitting
program(s) to the same extent. Example 1: if the regulation of GHGs under both PSD
and Title V is vacated in whole, then all GHG emissions limitations or requirements
included in any construction or operating permit issued under this Regulation Number 3
shall no longer be enforceable. Example 2: if the Court remands the regulation of GHG
emissions to EPA such that GHG regulation under the Federal Act is temporarily
ineffective, either in whole or in part, any GHG emissions limitation or requirement
included in any permit issued under this Regulation Number 3 shall be limited or
rendered ineffective to the same extent. Sources may actively seek to maintain those
permit conditions if they so choose pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
I.A. These examples are not intended to address all potential outcomes, but rather to
provide some degree of implementation guidance. The Commission intends that this
rescission will be automatically and immediately effective final of applicable court action
or legislation. When triggered, this clause prevents regulation of GHG under Regulation
Number 3 to the same extent of the federal action or court ruling and may require a new
rulemaking action by the Commission to regulate GHGs for the affected permitting
program, including any new details of such future regulation.

Synthetic Minor Permits for GHGs



                                                                                           567
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

No minor source air pollution construction permits are required at this time for GHGs,
except where stationary sources voluntarily seek federally enforceable limits for GHGs
to avoid major source PSD and Title V permitting requirements. (Regulation Number 3,
Part B, Section II.A.7.) An application for a voluntary synthetic minor construction permit
must include GHG emissions reported on Division-approved forms. Construction
permits shall be issued based on production/process rates requested in the application,
and the emission limit requested shall be a permit condition. (Regulation Number 3, Part
B, Section II.A.4.)

If the mentioned rescission clause is triggered, any federally enforceable GHG emission
limits contained in synthetic minor permits are no longer enforceable. The stationary
source is requested to submit a cancellation request to the Division to cancel GHG
emissions points and permits.

Regulation Number 3 Revisions:

The revisions to Regulation Number 3 as approved by the Commission are summarized
below.

Part A

•        Add Regulation Outline

•        Add new definitions of Greenhouse Gas and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent. The
         CO2e definition incorporates by reference EPA’s GWP codified via the GHG
         Mandatory Reporting Rule (Sections I.B.10., I.B.23.)

•        Revise Major Source definition so that it applied to regulated NSR pollutant
         (which includes GHG) as well as to air pollutants (which does not include GHG)
         so that GHG is addressed and the definition may be used to establish the mass
         based GHG threshold (Section I.B.25.b.)

•        Add new definition of Subject to Regulation consistent with EPA’s GHG Tailoring
         Rule and include the rescission clause as discussed (Section I.B.44.)

•        Revise annual emission fees to exclude GHGs (Section VI.D.)

Part B



                                                                                        568
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

•        Revise general permitting requirements to authorize the Division to issue
         synthetic minor permits for GHGs where stationary sources voluntarily choose to
         seek federally enforceable limits for GHG if they would otherwise be subject to
         PSD or Title V Permitting Programs (Sections II.A.4., II.A.7.)

Part C

•        Clarify that complete Title V Operating Permit applications include the reporting
         of GHG emissions as they are pollutants which may be subject to requirements
         applicable to the source, but not air pollutants, under Regulation 3 definitions
         (Section III.C.3.a.).

Part D

•        Revise the Definitions (Section II.A.):

•        Revise BACT, Major Modification and Major Stationary Source Definition to use
         the term Regulated NSR Pollutant for consistency and remove italics consistent
         with EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule so that these definitions become effective by
         January 2, 2011 (Sections II.A.8., II.A.22., II.A.24.a., II.A.24.a.(ii) and II.A.24.b.)

•        Revise Regulated NSR Pollutant definition and remove italics consistent with
         EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule so that it becomes effective by January 2, 2011
         (Section II.A.38.)

Additionally, the Commission approves typographical, grammatical and formatting
changes, as necessary.

I.UU. Adopted January 7, 2011
Regulation Number 3, Part D (Concerning Major Stationary Source New Source Review
and Prevention of Significant Deterioration) and Part F (Best Available Retrofit
Technology (BART) and Reasonable Progress for Regional Haze)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S (the Act).



                                                                                              569
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) promulgates this regulation
pursuant to the authority granted under Colorado Revised Statutes, Sections 25-7-
105(1)(c), (authority to adopt a prevention of significant deterioration program); 25-7-
109(1)(a) (authority to require the use of air pollution controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority
to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to visible pollutants); 25-7-114.4(1)
(authority to adopt rules for the administration of permits); and 40-3.2-208 (authority to
incorporate emission reduction plans for rate-regulated utilities within the state’s
Regional Haze State Implementation Plan).



Basis and Purpose

PART D

These revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part D change the review and revision period
for the Regional Haze Long Term Strategy (LTS) from every three years to every five
years. This change aligns the reporting periods for the Regional Haze LTS and the
Regional Haze progress reports that are required every five years pursuant to 40 C.F.R.
Section 51.308(g).

PART F

On July 1, 1999, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated the final
Regional Haze Rule (Rule), which went into effect, on August 30, 1999, and which
requires each state to submit a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to address regional
haze. The Rule is intended to achieve the national visibility goals as expressed in
Section 169(a) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7491. Colorado must develop a
SIP revision in coordination and consultation with other states, tribes, federal land
managers, EPA and Regional Planning Organizations (RPOs) designated by EPA. In
the west, the RPO is the Western Regional Air Partnership (WRAP).

Regional Haze is a visibility impairment that is caused by multiple sources over a broad
geographic region. EPA’s Regional Haze Rule requires every state to submit a SIP
designed to improve visibility in its mandatory Class I federal areas (Class I areas).


                                                                                         570
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Class I areas are areas of great scenic importance, such as national parks and
wilderness areas. There are 12 Class I areas in Colorado, and 156 nationwide.

A key element of EPA’s regional haze program is Best Available Retrofit Technology
(BART) for certain emission sources. Section 169A(b)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act requires
BART for certain existing major facilities, placed into operation between August 7, 1962
and August 7, 1977, that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-
reducing pollution a year. EPA’s Regional Haze Rule requires SIPs to include BART
emission limits for each subject-to-BART source that may reasonably be anticipated to
impair visibility in any Class I area, unless the state demonstrates that an emissions
trading program or other alternative measures will achieve greater reasonable progress
toward natural visibility conditions. See 40 CFR Part 51 Section 308(e). EPA
promulgated a BART Rule separate from its Regional Haze Rule. EPA’s BART Rule
includes guidelines (Appendix Y) regarding how states should make BART
determinations. See 70 Fed. Reg. 39104 (July 6, 2005). EPA also promulgated a “BART
Alternative” Rule. See 71 Fed. Reg. 60612 (October 13, 2006). The BART Alternative
Rule allows an alternative program to source-by-source BART, if the program results in
greater reasonable progress than would occur pursuant to individual BART.

States were required to submit their regional haze SIPs to EPA by December 17, 2007.
The Regional Haze Rule establishes the year 2064 as the date by which a goal of
visibility at natural background levels is desired in all Class I areas. The Rule divides the
2007-2064 time periods into numerous planning periods. States were required to submit
their initial RH SIP by December 31, 2007, then a revised Regional Haze SIP to EPA by
July 31, 2018, and every ten years thereafter. See 40 CFR Section 51.308(f).

Colorado submitted much of its regional haze SIP (including most of its BART
determinations) to EPA in early 2008 for review. Following additional revisions, the
Commission approved the remainder of Colorado’s BART determinations in December
2008, and submitted Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP to EPA’s Region 8 for review in
2009.




                                                                                         571
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Upon review, EPA Region 8 informed Colorado that its regional haze SIP submittal was
not approvable and needed to be revised before EPA could reconsider it for inclusion in
the State Implementation Plan. EPA has identified deficiencies with Colorado’s Regional
Haze Element of the SIP, including the basis for and enforceability of BART
determinations and the lack of reasonable progress goals (RPGs) and RP source
determinations. These alleged deficiencies must be addressed in order for EPA to
approve the Regional Haze element of the SIP. This regulation is the second part of a
bifurcated rulemaking process in which the Commission adopted the remaining
outstanding Regional Haze SIP elements.

EPA made a finding on January 15, 2009 that 37 states, including Colorado, had failed
to make all or part of the required Regional Haze SIP submissions. See 74 Fed. Reg.
2393 (January 15, 2009). This action started a clock by which states must have
approved SIPs, or EPA must promulgate Federal Implementation Plans (FIPs) within
two years (i.e., by January 15, 2011). EPA initiated actions in Colorado to begin
preparing a FIP, and this action by the Commission is taken to complete the adoption of
a regional haze element of the SIP, address the deficiencies that Region 8 EPA has
identified, and to prevent such a federal action in Colorado, with its attendant
consequences (e.g., federal determinations of BART, federal reasonable progress
determinations, federal permits, and state loss of CAA grant monies so EPA can
prepare a FIP).

During the 2010 legislative session, the Colorado legislature passed House Bill 10-
1365, the “Clean Air - Clean Jobs Act” (CACJA). The CACJA sets forth requirements
applicable to investor owned utilities in Colorado (Public Service Company of Colorado
(PSCo) and Black Hills Energy) and certain of their electric generating units. The
CACJA requires the investor owned utilities to submit emission reduction plans to the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission (PUC), and provides that the Commission shall
consider the air quality provisions of the emission reduction plans for incorporation into
the regional haze element of Colorado’s SIP. See Section 40-3.2-208, C.R.S. PSCo and
Black Hills submitted their emission reduction plans to the PUC on August 13, 2010,
and the PUC approved the plans on December 15, 2010.



                                                                                       572
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted into Regulation Number 3 BART determinations for PSCo’s
Hayden and Comanche plants, two units at CENC’s Golden plant, CEMEX’s Lyons
Portland cement plant, and Colorado Springs Utilities' Drake power plant. The
Commission also adopted an Alternative to BART program for two units at Tri-State
Generation and Transmission Association’s Craig power plant. The Commission
determined that, for nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, the appropriate BART control for
Craig Units 1 and 2 would be emission rates associated with the assumed installation
and operation of selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR). As an alternative to BART, it
was proposed and the Commission adopted, a more stringent NOx emissions control
plan that consists of emission limits associated with the assumed operation of SNCR for
Unit 1 and the assumed operation of SCR for Unit 2. The state has determined that the
alternative program achieves greater reasonable progress than would be achieved
through the installation and operation of source-by-source BART, and thus meets the
requirements of the regional haze rule.

The Commission also adopted into Regulation Number 3 a BART Alternative for a
number of PSCo plants and incorporated it into the Regional Haze SIP. The BART
Alternative is based on reductions achieved as a result of a combination of shutdowns
and retrofit emissions controls at certain PSCo facilities planned as part of HB 10-1365.
The BART Alternative includes ten units at four PSCo facilities. The facilities included in
the BART Alternative include Arapahoe Units 3 and 4, Cherokee Units 1-4, Valmont and
Pawnee. The BART Alternative includes both BART and non-BART sources. The non-
BART sources are older than the BART timeframe, and in effect will all be controlled by
2017 and reduce their NOx and SO2 emissions as a result of enforceable facility
retirement dates and, for one unit, fuel switching to natural gas as a peaking unit. For
the BART sources, Cherokee 4, Pawnee and Valmont, Valmont will be retired by 2018,
Pawnee will be fully controlled by mid-2015, and Cherokee will operate on natural gas
by 2018. The state has determined that the BART Alternative achieves greater
reasonable progress than would be achieved through the installation and operation of
source-by-source BART and RP determinations at the covered sources, and thus meets
the requirements of the Regional Haze rule. PSCo has designed and proposed the
BART Alternative to meet the state CACJA.


                                                                                        573
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission determined that to the extent there is any inconsistency between the
CACJA and older, more generic legal requirements, the more recent and specific
CACJA controls. The state has used simplifying assumptions to compare the emission
reductions and visibility impacts associated with the PSCo BART Alternative, and
believes that the BART Alternative is clearly superior to, and will result in greater
reasonable progress than, source-by-source BART. For example, the state has
determined and demonstrated that PSCo’s BART Alternative emissions reductions are
greater than, and would provide greater reasonable progress than, the presumptive or
source-by-source BART limits. The Commission also adopted retirement dates of “no
later than” July 1, 2012 and December 31, 2016 for Cherokee Units 1 and 3,
respectively. In doing so, the Commission is no way rejecting any portion of PSCo’s
emission reduction plan as approved by the PUC on December 15, 2010 (Decision No.
C10-1328). Rather, the Commission’s action is intended to provide flexibility and
consistency in light of PSCo’s pending application for rehearing, re-argument or
reconsideration (RRR) before the PUC, in which PSCo states that the revised dates are
important for providing sequencing of activities that will ensure electrical system
reliability in the Denver Metropolitan area. These dates are also wholly consistent with
the PUC’s decision because PSCo can comply with the dates established by both the
PUC and the Commission, regardless of how the PUC rules on PSCo’s RRR
application. The Commission also notes that Hayden, another PSCo BART source, is
not part of the BART Alternative program. The PUC approved controls for Hayden as
part of PSCo’s emission reduction plan under HB 10-1365, consistent with the state’s
BART determination for that source.

The Commission also established non-binding goals for each Class I area in Colorado
(expressed in deciviews) that provide for Reasonable Progress (RP) towards achieving
natural visibility conditions in 2018 and to 2064. See 40 C.F.R. Section 51.308(d)(1).
The reasonable progress goals (RPGs) provide for improvement in visibility for the
most-impaired (20% worst) days over the period of the SIP and ensure no degradation
in visibility for the least-impaired (20% best) days over the same period. The
Commission adopted into Regulation Number 3 emission limits for “reasonable
progress” sources that have a significant impact on visibility impairment in Class I areas,


                                                                                         574
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

in order to help the State make reasonable progress towards improving visibility in this
first planning period. These sources include Black Hills Energy Clark Station (a HB10-
1365 facility), the Holcim Cement Plant, Tri-State Generation and Transmission
Association’s Craig Station Unit 3 and Nucla Station, Platte River Power Authority’s
Rawhide Station, Colorado Springs Utilities’ Nixon Power Plant, PSCo’s Cameo plant,
and CENC’s Unit 3.

For all BART and BART Alternative determinations made by the Commission in the
November 2010 – January 2011 proceedings, a source that has installed BART or
implemented a state-approved BART Alternative is exempted from the imposition of
further regional haze controls during this first regional haze planning period (i.e.,
through December 31, 2017). This exemption applies only to regional haze, and does
not apply to controls or emission reductions that may be required or otherwise imposed
pursuant to other air pollution programs (including, but not limited to, ozone standards).

The revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F also apply Monitoring, Recordkeeping
and Recording (MRR) Provisions to BART, BART Alternative and Reasonable Progress
emission limits.

In addition to the regulatory changes described, the Commission adopted changes to
Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP. Many of the changes are non-substantive edits while
other changes address comments from Federal Land Managers, incorporate the
justification for the BART and reasonable progress determinations, and provide the
justification for the reasonable progress goals. The following presents an overview of
the content of Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP document:

       Chapter 1 – Overview

       Chapter 2 – Plan Development and Consultation

       Chapter 3 – Monitoring Strategy

       Chapter 4 – Baseline and Natural Visibility Conditions in Colorado, and Uniform
       Progress for Each Class I area

       Chapter 5 – Sources of Impairment in Colorado

       Chapter 6 - Best Available Retrofit Technology


                                                                                        575
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      Chapter 7 – Visibility Modeling and Apportionment

      Chapter 8 – Reasonable Progress

      Chapter 9 – Long Term Strategy

      Chapter 10 – Commitment to Consultation, Progress Reports, Periodic
      Evaluations of Plan Adequacy, and Future SIP Revisions

      Chapter 11 – Resource and Reference Documents

      Appendix A – Periodic Review of Colorado RAVI Long Term Strategy

      Appendix B – SIP Revision for RAVI Long Term Strategy

      Appendix C – Technical Support for the BART Determinations

      Appendix D – Technical Support for the Reasonable Progress Determinations

      The revised chapters are intended to fully replace previously adopted SIP
      chapters.

Additional Considerations

The Commission provides the following additional statement, consistent with Sections
25-7-110.5(5)(a) and 110.8, C.R.S.

(I)   Colorado’s proposed Regional Haze regulations and SIP revisions are consistent
      with EPA’s federal requirements under the Regional Haze rule. There is no
      binding requirement on how a State may “consider” the federal statutory and
      regulatory factors in determining BART and RP and establishing RPGs. The
      manner and method of consideration is left to the state’s discretion. States are
      free to determine the weight and significance to be assigned to each factor. See
      70 Fed. Reg. 39104, 39170 (July 6, 2005). State discretion is a cornerstone of
      the regional haze rule.See id., at 39137 (“Congress evinced a special concern
      with insuring that States would be the decision makers.”). States also have
      flexibility to consider any other factors that the state determines to be relevant.
      See U.S. EPA, “Guidance for Setting Reasonable Progress Goals Under the
      Regional Haze Program,” p. 5-1 (June 2007). Federal law also allows states
      flexibility to adopt alternative programs that provide greater reasonable progress


                                                                                        576
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       than BART. The Commission has adopted such alternatives for PSCo and Tri-
       State sources. The Commission finds that the revisions adopted in this hearing
       are wholly consistent with the discretion and expertise to be applied by state
       agencies under the federal act. Accordingly, the proposed revisions are no more
       stringent or different than federal law, and Sections 25-7-110.5 and 110.8 do not
       appear to apply.

       Additionally, HB10-1365 provides, in part, that the Commission must vacate this
       rulemaking proceeding and must initiate a new proceeding for the consideration
       of alternative proposals for the appropriate controls for those units covered by the
       utility plans for inclusion in the regional haze element of the state implementation
       plan if, among other things, the Commission rejects any portion of the plans as
       approved by the PUC. Section 40-3.2-208(2)(b), C.R.S. If the Commission were
       to reject any portion of the utility plans, this proceeding would be vacated and a
       new proceeding initiated, making it impossible for Colorado to submit a timely
       and complete SIP revision to address Regional Haze, and resulting in a FIP.
       Under these circumstances, it is reasonable to conclude that the Commission
       rules regarding “1365” sources are being adopted to implement prescriptive state
       requirements, that the Commission has no significant policy-making options with
       respect to these sources, and that many provisions of Sections 25-7-110.5 and
       110.8 do not apply. See Section 25-7-110.5(2), C.R.S.

       Despite the foregoing, certain elements of this proceeding could be viewed (as
       certain parties have alleged) as exceeding the federal act or differing from the
       federal act. For example, the closure or repowering of PSCo facilities would not
       be required solely by EPA’s Regional Haze Rule. Accordingly, the Commission is
       providing this additional statement, consistent with Sections 25-7-110.5(5)(a) and
       110.8, C.R.S.

(II)   EPA’s regional haze requirements are performance based, and the regional haze
       rule sets forth factors that states must consider when assessing controls and
       emission limits for sources emitting visibility impairing pollutants. Section 169A of
       the federal Clean Air Act (1977) sets forth the following national visibility goal:



                                                                                             577
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        “Congress hereby declares as a national goal the prevention of any future, and
        the remedying of any existing, impairment of visibility in mandatory Class I
        Federal areas which impairment results from man-made air pollution.” 42 U.S.C.
        Section 7491. To help facilitate this goal, EPA finalized the regional haze rule in
        1999. The Rule requires States to adopt SIPs to address visibility impairment in
        the Class I areas. Critical components of such SIPs (particularly the SIP for the
        first planning period) are BART and RP. EPA provides flexibility to states
        regarding how to apply the relevant factors to BART and RP analyses.

(III)   Applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues regarding
        visibility impairment in Class I areas that are of concern to Colorado. Applicable
        federal requirements do not specifically address all of the issues that are of
        concern to Colorado. House Bill 10-1365 is intended to address Colorado’s
        compliance with a number of federal Clean Air Act requirements in a
        comprehensive and more efficient fashion than in a step-by-step (or regulation by
        regulation) approach. The legislation specifically declares that it is intended to
        create “a coordinated plan of emissions reductions…to meet the requirements of
        the federal act…at a lower cost than a piecemeal approach.” Section 40-3.2-
        202(1), C.R.S. While regional haze is an important consideration in the context of
        HB10-1365, it is not the only one. HB10-1365 aims to address other air pollution
        issues as well, including national standards for ozone. See, e.g., Sections 40-3.2-
        204(1), 204(2)(b)(II)(B) and 205(1)(c), C.R.S. Data regarding visibility impairing
        emissions and control technologies was considered in the federal process
        leading up to the promulgation of the Regional Haze Rule. See, e.g., EPA’s
        “Technical Support Document for BART SO2 Limits for Electric Generating
        Units,” April 1, 2005, and “Technical Support Document for BART NOx Limits for
        Electric Generating Units and Technical Support Document for BART NOx Limits
        for Electric Generating Units Excel Spreadsheet,” April 15, 2005, Memoranda to
        Docket Number 2002-0076. These Memoranda reflect an analysis of all
        individual BART-eligible units in the country, including Colorado.See 70 Fed.
        Reg. at 39131-35. See also EPA’s “Regulatory Impact Analysis for the Final
        Clean Air Visibility Rule or the Guidelines for Best Available Retrofit Technology


                                                                                             578
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        (BART) Determinations Under the Regional Haze Regulations,” U.S. EPA, June
        2005. Additionally, the state determines that the regulatory requirements do not
        exceed the requirements of the federal act because the state is not imposing the
        BART alternative measures on an unwilling entity. Rather, the sources voluntarily
        proposed the packages as BART alternative measures and, in the case of PSCo,
        in order to comply with HB10-1365.

(IV)    The adopted rule will provide certainty to sources, by providing necessary
        monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting mechanisms and clear timing
        requirements to ensure the achievability of the specified closure or performance
        based standards. With respect to the “1365” sources in particular, the
        requirements improve the utilities’ ability to comply in a cost-effective manner
        while preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofits to meet more stringent
        requirements later.

(V)     If the state does not take action by January 2011, EPA has indicated it will
        promulgate a FIP. The state and federal rules also have similar time frames for
        implementation. BART controls must be installed as soon as practicable but in no
        event later than five years after EPA approval of the regional haze SIP, and all
        BART, BART alternatives and RP controls must be implemented within this first
        planning period (i.e., before January 1, 2018).

(VI)    The adopted rule will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin
        for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth.

(VII)   The adopted rule establishes reasonable equity for sources subject to the rule by
        providing the same standards for similarly situated sources. BART and RP
        determinations are very source specific; different controls and emission limits are
        to be expected and reflect the State’s source-specific consideration of federal
        statutory and legal factors, and of the state’s implementation of HB10-1365.

(VIII) If the state rule were not adopted, EPA has indicated it will promulgate a FIP. This
        would likely result in a more costly control requirements for sources which would
        be passed on to consumers.




                                                                                           579
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(IX)    The Regional Haze Rule requires associated State procedural, reporting and
        monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. The procedural, reporting,
        monitoring and recordkeeping requirements provided in Colorado’s rule do not
        differ from, and often incorporate by reference, federal requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to control and monitor visibility impairing
        emissions.

(XI)    The adopted rule will contribute to the prevention of pollution by reducing visibility
        impairing emissions.

(XII)   A no action alternative would not address the required standard, and could result
        in EPA’s promulgation of a FIP.

(XIII) All regulatory changes in this proceeding are based on reasonably available,
        validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies. All information made
        available by interested parties has been reviewed and considered by the
        Commission.

(XIV) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of pollutants that contribute to regional haze.

(XV) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health or environment, and provide other benefits
        (e.g., protection of visibility) that justify the cost to government, the regulated
        community, and to the public to implement and comply with the rule.

(XVI) The Commission has chosen the alternative that is the most cost effective,
        provides the regulated community flexibility, and which achieves the necessary
        reductions in air pollution. The alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost effective manner. The Commission notes that no
        parties provided alternate proposals to the PSCo BART Alternative during this
        proceeding. The Commission also notes that in approving PSCo’s emission
        reduction plan, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission thoroughly considered
        the economic impacts and concluded that that the approved plan comes at a
        lower cost to ratepayers than an all-controls option. Even if for some reason



                                                                                              580
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       PSCo’s BART Alternative were not determined to be the most cost effective
       option, the Commission finds that approval of the BART Alternative and
       incorporation of the alternative into the Regional Haze SIP is consistent with the
       legislature’s intent in adopting the CACJA.

I.VV. Adopted October 20, 2011
Regulation Number 3, Part A, B, C and D – addressing federal changes to the New
Source Review (NSR) Program related to PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS), several recent Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) State
Implementation Plan (SIP) actions in which EPA partially disapproved various SIP
revisions, EPA’s Deferral of Biogenic Sources of CO2 Emissions, other miscellaneous
revisions, and typographical, grammatical and formatting errors.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S (the Act).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) promulgates this regulation
pursuant to the authority granted under Colorado Revised Statutes, Sections 25-7-
105(1)(c), (authority to adopt a prevention of significant deterioration program); 25-7-
109(1)(a) (authority to require the use of air pollution controls); 25-7-109(2)(a) (authority
to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to visible pollutants); and 25-7-114.4(1)
(authority to adopt rules for the administration of permits).

Basis and Purpose

EPA promulgated federal changes to the New Source Review (NSR) Program, which
must be incorporated into Regulation Number 3 in order to maintain consistency with
the federal NSR Program related to PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standards
(NAAQS). Subsequently, EPA disapproved and proposed to disapprove Air Pollutant
Emission Notice (APEN) exemption provisions in Regulation Number 3, associated with
Colorado’s September 1997, April 2003 June 2003, July 2005, August 2006, and August



                                                                                         581
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

2007 SIP submittals. Also, EPA proposed its Deferral of Biogenic Sources of CO2
Emissions, deferring biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) from regulation under the federal
Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Permitting Programs for three
years. In addressing the actions, several additional Regulation Number 3 provisions
were identified in need of revision.

Sources affected by this proposal include PM2.5 and CO2 emission sources, as well as
open burning sources, mobile sources, stationary internal combustion engines,
emergency generators, oil and gas surface water impoundments, deaerator/vacuum
pump exhaust, and air curtain destructors.

PM2.5 Related Rules

On February 21, 2008, the AQCC adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Parts A
and B to identify PM2.5 as a criteria pollutant, triggering reporting and minor source
permitting requirements. However, the AQCC did not make corresponding revisions to
major stationary source permitting requirements under the New Source Review (NSR)
Program as the EPA had not yet promulgated the associated PM2.5 implementation
rules. Since that time, EPA promulgated a series of rules regarding the regulation of
PM2.5 under the NSR program. See “Implementation of the New Source Review (NSR)
Program for Particulate Matter Less than 2.5 Micrometers (PM2.5)” (73 FR 28321, May
16, 2008), “Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) for Particulate Matter Less
Than 2.5 Micrometers (PM2.5) – Increments, Significant Impact Levels (SILs) and
Significant Monitoring Concentration (SMC)” (75 FR 64864, October 20, 2010),
“Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans” (76
FR 18870, April 6, 2011), and “Implementation of the New Source Review (NSR)
Program for Particulate Matter Less Than 2.5 Micrometers (PM2.5); Final Rule to
Repeal Grandfather Provision” (76 FR 28646, May 18, 2011). The 2008 and 2010 rules,
combined with the December 21, 2010 promulgation of the methodology to test for
PM2.5, provide a complete framework establishing how to apply PM2.5 to the NSR
Program. Prior to the promulgation of the December 2010 rules, application of PM2.5 to
the NSR Program made little sense. See 75 FR 80118. Consequently, the AQCC chose




                                                                                         582
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

to wait to adopt the suite of PM2.5 implementation rules until after the last of the PM2.5
implementation rules and the 2010 PM2.5 testing methodology were finalized.

The May 16, 2008 rule provided flexibility in designating PM2.5 precursor pollutants.
While sulfur oxides (SO2) must be treated as a PM2.5 precursors in all areas of the
state, more flexibility is afforded to nitrogen oxides (NOx), volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) and ammonia (NH3). This rule requires that NOx be presumed a PM2.5
precursors state-wide unless a state demonstrates that NOx is not a “significant
contributor” to PM2.5 concentrations within any area. See73 FR 28328.However, VOCs
and NH3 are not required to be treated as PM2.5 precursors, except that high molecular
weight VOCs (equal to or greater than 25 carbon atoms and low vapor pressure) will be
addressed as a condensable particulate. See 73 FR 28329-283330.

At this time, the AQCC has identified SO2 and NOx as PM2.5 precursors, state-wide.
Based on the limited PM2.5 modeling and monitoring data available for Colorado, the
AQCC determined that there is insufficient evidence to claim either way that NOx
emissions do or do not contribute significantly to the concentration of PM2.5 in any area
in Colorado. Without evidence to narrow the identification of NOx as a precursor to
specific areas, Colorado must identify NOx as a PM2.5 precursors state-wide. Less is
known about VOCs and NH3 and their contribution to PM2.5 in Colorado, and so
Colorado has chosen to not identify them as PM2.5 precursors at this time.

EPA Partial Disapproval Actions

On October 3, 2011, EPA’s action granting partial disapproval and partial approval of
revised Air Pollution Emission Notice (APEN) and permitting exemptions that the
Commission submitted to EPA as SIP revisions in September 1997, June 2003, July
2005, August 2006, and August 2007, was published in the Federal Register. See 76 FR
61054. EPA partially disapproved APEN exemptions for open burning, mobile sources,
stationary internal combustion engines, emergency generators, oil and gas surface
water impoundments, deaerator/vacuum pump exhaust, and air curtain destructors. The
basis for EPA’s disapproval of the subject provisions and the revisions intended to
address each provision are as follows:




                                                                                        583
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Open burning APEN exemption was corrected to reference federally enforceable
Regulation Number 1 (Part A, Section II.D.1.q.). EPA commented that the change in
reference from Regulation Number 1, which is part of Colorado’s SIP, to Regulation
Number 9, which is not part of Colorado’s SIP, was not approvable.

Mobile sources APEN exemption was clarified (Part A, Section II.D.1.ppp.) and
associated revisions were made to the insignificant activities list (Part C, Section
II.E.3.uuu.). EPA commented that these exemptions only apply to stationary sources,
not non-road engines and not sources being used for transportation purposes.

Stationary internal combustion engine APEN exemption was repealed (Part A, Section
II.D.1.sss.) and related revisions were made to the associated permitting exemption
(Part B, Sections II.D.2.c., and II.D.2.c.(i)-(iii)) and insignificant activities list (Part C,
Section II.E.3.nnn.). EPA commented that the APEN exemption should require
recordkeeping and reporting. The AQCC repealed the APEN exemption and revised the
permit exemption to be consistent with current SIP approved language instead of
requiring additional recordkeeping and reporting. Note that while the categorical
exemption is being repealed, sources may still utilize the general one and two ton APEN
exemptions found in Part A, Section II.D.1.a.

Emergency generator APEN exemption was repealed (Part A, Section II.D.1.ttt.), and
related revisions were made to the associated permitting exemption (Part B, Sections
II.D.2.c., and II.D.2.c.(i)-(iii)) and insignificant activities list (Part C, Section II.E.3.nnn.).
EPA commented that the APEN exemption should require recordkeeping and reporting.
The AQCC repealed the APEN exemption, and revised the permit exemption to be
consistent with current SIP approved language instead of requiring additional
recordkeeping and reporting. Note that while the categorical exemption is being
repealed, sources may still utilize the general one and two ton APEN exemptions found
in Part A, Section II.D.1.a.

Surface water impoundment APEN exemption was clarified (Part A, Section II.D.1.uuu.)
and related revisions were made to the associated permitting exemption (Part B,
Section II.D.1.m.) and insignificant activities list (Part C, Section II.E.3.yyy.). EPA
commented that the APEN exemption should be clarified to confirm that the exemption


                                                                                                  584
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

applied to oil and gas produced water. In addition to making this revision, the AQCC
also clarified exceptions to these exemptions and insignificant activity.

Deaerator/vacuum pump exhaust APEN exemption was repealed (Part A, Section
II.D.1.xxx.) and associated revisions were made to the insignificant activities list (Part C,
Section II.E.3.uuu.). EPA commented that it was unclear what these activities were. The
AQCC is unaware of any source making use of this exemption, and thus has removed
this exemption and associated insignificant activity.

Air curtain destructor APEN exemption removal (Part A, Section II.D.1.ffff.). EPA
commented that because air curtain destructors meet the SIP approved definition of an
incinerator and as such are required to submit APENs and obtain permits, that this
exemption should be removed.

On February 4, 2011, EPA’s action granting partial approval and partial disapproval of
SIP revisions submitted to EPA in April 2003 and June 2003, was published in the
Federal Register. See 76 FR 6331. Those 2003 SIP revisions to Regulation Number 3
revised APEN exemptions and permitting exemptions in Regulation Number 3, Parts A
and B, respectively. To address EPA’s concerns, the following provisions that EPA
disapproved or on which EPA otherwise provided comment, were revised or removed as
follows:

Stationary internal combustion engines 10 ton per year permitting exemption in
attainment areas (Part B, Sections II.D.1.c., and II.D.1.c.(iii)). EPA commented that
Colorado did not make the anti-backsliding demonstration necessary to increase the
permitting exemption threshold from 5 tons per year to 10 tons per year. The AQCC
opted to revert back to the 5 tons per year threshold that EPA previously approved
instead of making the necessary demonstration at this time. Note that this revision does
not prevent any source from making use of the facility-wide permit exemptions found in
Part B, Sections II.D.2. or II.D.3.

Non-road engine state-only requirements (Part A, Sections I.B.31.c. and I.B.31.d.). EPA
commented that it could not approve provisions which are identified as state-only
provisions. The AQCC agrees and has further placed “(State-only Requirement)” at the
beginning of these sections to clearly identify that they are state-only provisions.


                                                                                         585
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Biogenic Deferral Revisions:

On June 3, 2010, EPA’s “Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse
Gas (GHG) Tailoring Rule,” commonly called the GHG Tailoring Rule, was published in
the Federal Register. See 75 FR 31514. EPA’s GHG Tailoring Rule was designed to
tailor the applicability criteria that determine which stationary sources and modification
projects become subject to permitting requirements for GHGs under the Prevention of
Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Permitting Programs of the Clean Air Act
(CAA).

On July 20, 2011, EPA’s “Deferral for CO2 Emissions from Bioenergy and Other
Biogenic Sources Under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V
Programs,” commonly called the Biogenic Deferral, was published in the Federal
Register. See 76 FR 43490. Beginning July 1, 2011, EPA’s Biogenic Deferral temporarily
excludes biogenic CO2 emissions from the definition of “subject to regulation” to allow
biogenic sources of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions a three year deferral from the PSD
and Title V permitting requirements; the three year deferral applies even if the source’s
GHG emissions exceed the threshold established in the Tailoring Rule. To maintain
consistency with implementation of federal requirements associated with the Tailoring
Rule and the associated Biogenic Deferral, the AQCC incorporated EPA’s Biogenic
Deferral into Colorado’s PSD and Title V Permitting Programs, as follows:

Revise the existing definition of Subject to Regulation consistent with EPA’s proposed
Biogenic Deferral (Part A, Section I.B.44.b.).

Other Revisions:

In addressing the actions, the AQCC made several additional Regulation Number 3
revisions that relate to: revising the time frame for reporting the Notice of Startup to the
Division from thirty days prior to fifteen days after commencing operation, which is
consistent with Colorado’s House Bill 10-1042, as codified in 25-7-114.5(12)(a), C.R.S.;
including NOx as a precursor to ozone in ozone significant monitoring concentration
(SMC) and removing the total suspended solid SMC, both consistent with federal
requirements; and making typographical, grammatical and formatting corrections.




                                                                                         586
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Additional Considerations

These adopted rules are mandated by federal law and necessary to maintain EPA
approval of Colorado’s SIP. The revisions associated with the PM2.5 Implementation
Rules and Biogenic Deferral mirror the federal requirements. While the PM2.5
Implementation Rules do allow States the opportunity to deviate from the specified
PM2.5 precursor pollutants, Colorado does not have sufficient modeling and monitoring
data available to support a decision to identify VOC and NH3 as PM2.5 precursors or
narrow the area in which NOx is identified as a PM2.5 precursors in Colorado. The
related revisions adhere to federal requirements [as required by Sections 25-7-105(1),
25-7-201(a) and 25-7-203, and 25-7-302, C.R.S.], and therefore the provisions of
Sections 25-7-110.5(5) and 110.8, C.R.S. do not apply to these revisions.

With respect to EPA’s SIP disapproval actions, while the AQCC must address EPA’s
comments, Colorado has some flexibility in addressing those comments. Here, the
provisions of Sections 25-7-110.5(5) and 110.8, C.R.S. apply to this rulemaking. Thus,
the AQCC makes the following determinations only as they pertain to the SIP
disapproval actions, and only where the AQCC has flexibility in addressing EPA’s
comments.

Pursuant to 25-7-110.5(5). C.R.S., the AQCC makes the determination that:

      (I)     EPA’s SIP disapproval actions are federal requirements that may apply to
              this rulemaking.

      (II)    The applicable federal requirements imposing emission reporting and
              permitting are performance based. While the AQCC must address EPA’s
              comments, there is some flexibility in how best to address those
              comments.

      (III)   Regarding EPA’s comments on the APEN exemptions, accurate actual
              emissions data for open burning sources, mobile sources, stationary
              internal combustion engines, emergency generators, oil and gas surface
              water impoundments, deaerator/vacuum pump exhaust, and air curtain
              destructors is limited, although more is known about the engines,



                                                                                     587
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

             generators and air curtain destructors. The AQCC concluded that the
             adopted rule will clarify and generally improve Colorado’s inventory of
             emissions from these sources in Colorado, and thus the reporting
             components are essential to this effort.

     (IV)    With respect to APEN associated permitting exemption revisions, these
             revisions strike an appropriate balance between exempting small emission
             sources, ensuring that Colorado has a reasonably accurate inventory, as
             well as ensuring that reporting and permitting requirements are reasonably
             uniform and equitable.

     (V)     The AQCC is not aware of any timing issue that could justify changing the
             timeframe in which these rules are implemented. There are deadlines by
             which states are expected to implement federally mandated changes, with
             potential sanctions for failing to meet these deadlines.

     (VI)    The APEN and associated permitting exemption and insignificant activity
             requirements in question are not specifically designed with a margin for
             accommodation, but instead will rely on the opportunity for future
             revisions, as necessary, to adjust for uncertainty and future growth.

     (VII)   The adopted revisions establish reasonable equity for sources subject to
             the revisions by providing the same requirements for similarly situated
             sources.

     (VIII) If revisions to the APEN and permitting exemptions and insignificant
             activities are not adopted, while there would be no change in cost to
             industry, Colorado’s emissions inventory accuracy will not improve.
             Emissions inventories are essential tools in protecting public health and
             the environment. A less accurate emissions inventory may translate into a
             public health and welfare and environmental cost, by delaying the time
             necessary to improve the inventory when developing plans to address
             future NAAQS.




                                                                                       588
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      (IX)    The proposed revisions include no requirements that differ from applicable
              federal requirements.

      (X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the particulate matter
              permitting requirements. Sources are already using the control devices
              intended to be used to comply with this rule.

      (XI)    The adopted rules will contribute to prevention of pollution, by having
              sources more accurately assess emissions to determine if APEN reporting
              or permitting requirements apply. Understanding emissions is essential in
              preventing pollution.

      (XII)   Because these rules are federally mandated, no alternative rules would
              address the requirements in question.

Further, pursuant to 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S., the AQCC makes the determination that:

      (I)     The rule is based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
              sound scientific methodologies, and the AQCC has considered all
              information submitted by interested parties.

      (II)    These amendments are largely administrative in nature as they relate to
              APEN reporting, permitting exemptions and insignificant activities.

      (III)   Evidence in this record supports the finding that the rule shall bring about
              reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
              costs to implement and comply with the rule.

      (IV)    The rule is the most cost effective, provides the regulated community
              flexibility, and achieves any necessary reduction in air pollution.

      (V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
              regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

I.WW. Adopted December 20, 2012
Regulation Number 3, Parts A, B, C, D, and Appendix B of Part A – revising language
for conformity with the New Source Review (NSR) Program and approved State




                                                                                         589
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Implementation Plan (“SIP”); streamlining the permit issuance process; and correcting
other typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-105(1)(a), 25-7-
201 through 25-7-206, 25-7-210, 25-7-301, and 25-7-302, C.R.S. authorize the Air
Quality Control Commission (“Commission”) to promulgate a comprehensive State
Implementation Plan (“SIP”) which will assure attainment and maintenance of national
ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) and prevent significant deterioration (“PSD”) of
air quality in conformance with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Section 25-7-105(1)(c)
further states that definitions used in the PSD program shall not differ from definitions
pertaining to the federal PSD program in the Clean Air Act Section 169. Section 25-7-
105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations necessary to implement
the provisions of the emission notice, construction permit, and Title V programs. Section
25-7-106(7)(a) authorizes the Commission to develop a program to apply and enforce
relevant provisions of the SIP including the imposition of any fees necessary to
administer the program. Section 25-7-114.7 requires owners or operators of air pollution
sources to pay permit application processing fees. Section 25-7-114.4 authorizes the
Commission to promulgate regulations necessary and proper for the orderly and
effective administration of construction permits and renewable operating permits. And,
Section 25-7-114.5 authorizes the Commission to designate which projects or activities
requiring a construction permit application warrant public comment.

Basis and Purpose

The Commission revised the Permit Processing Fees, Section VI.B.5., to streamline
construction permit issuance by allowing the Division to issue a construction permit prior
to receiving full payment for the assessed permit processing fees. Currently, the Division
cannot issue an approved construction permit until the Division receives the applicant’s


                                                                                        590
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

complete processing fees payment, which delays the applicant’s ability to commence
construction due to the invoicing and payment process. This revision eliminates this
delay as, under the revised issuance process, applicants will receive the approved
construction permit and be able to commence construction during the invoicing and
payment process. Also under the revised issuance process, failure to pay the assessed
permit processing fees may result in late fees according to Section
25.7.114.7(2)(a)(I)(A.5), C.R.S. and/or revocation of the permit utilizing the current
Division revocation procedures. Applicants will be notified of the potential consequences
of nonpayment as well as corrective actions in the written request for processing fees
and the written request for late processing fees, if applicable. This revision will not
negatively impact permit applicants who pay their permit processing fees on time.

The Commission amended Appendix B to Part A to identify non-criteria reportable
pollutants first alphabetically by Chemical Bin (“BIN”) and then by chemical abstract
service (“CAS”) number to increase the clarity and usability of the Appendix.

The Commission amended the Part B, Section III.C.1.a., Public Comment and Hearing
Requirements to include attainment/maintenance areas.

The Commission removed the italic font and deleted the underlined text throughout the
regulation, primarily in Part D, in response to EPA’s approval of the corresponding
language into Colorado’s SIP on January 9, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 1027), and April 10,
2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 21453). The provisions under review by EPA were italicized to
indicate the text was not yet effective while other text was underlined to indicate it would
only be effective until EPA approved the italicized text into the SIP. Based on EPA’s final
actions in January and April, the italicized rule language, minus the underlined text,
became effective on May 10, 2012. Paragraph (b) of the definition of Representative
Actual Annual Emissions, II.A.40.5, was also deleted to conform with the NSR Program
and SIP because, though not underlined in Regulation Number 3, the NSR Program
removed the entire definition from 40 C.F.R. Part 51.

The Commission corrected the PM2.5 Major Source Baseline Date, Part D, Section
II.A.23.c., which was inadvertently adopted as October 20, 2011, to reference the major




                                                                                          591
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

source baseline date of October 20, 2010, set by EPA on October 20, 2010 (75 Fed.
Reg. 64864).

The Commission corrected a regulatory reference in Requirements Applicable to
Nonattainment Areas, Part D, Section V.A.6., to reference Section XIII.A. Section V.A.6.
currently refers Federal Land Manager involvement to Section XII.A., Innovative Control
Technology, instead of XIII.A., Federal Class I Areas.

I.XX. Adopted February 20, 2014
Regulation Number 3, Parts A, B, C, D, and Appendices A and B of Part A – removing
requirements for a source subject to a NSPS or NESHAP/MACT incorporated into
Regulation Number 6, Part A or Number 8, Parts A, C, D, and E to file an APEN and
obtain a minor source permit regardless of whether the source’s emissions exceed the
reporting of permitting thresholds (“catch-all provisions”); simplifying the Part A,
Appendix A de minimis determination for non-criteria reportable pollutants; removing the
crude oil storage tank exemptions; and correcting other typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103, the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act § 25-7-105(1) directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the
legislative declaration set forth in Section 25-7-102 and are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7. C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1)(a)(l) authorizes the
Commission to revise Colorado’s State Implementation Plan whenever necessary and
appropriate. C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1) authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations
necessary to implement the provisions of the Colorado emission notice, minor source
permit, and Title V programs. C.R.S. § 109(3) authorizes the Commission to promulgate
emissions control regulations pertaining to the storage and transfer of petroleum
products and other VOCs. C.R.S. § 25-7-109.3(3)(c) directs the Commission to exempt


                                                                                         592
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

classes of minor or insignificant sources of emissions of hazardous air pollutants from
the Colorado hazardous air pollutant control and reduction program requirements.
Section 25-7-109.3(5)(c) directs the Commission to establish de minimis emission levels
for each hazardous air pollutant beneath which emissions are considered to be of minor
significance.

Basis and Purpose

As part of a larger rule revision package, the Commission incorporated the federal
Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production, Transmission, and
Distribution found in 40 C.F.R. Part 60, Subpart OOOO (“NSPS OOOO”) in full, as
amended, into Regulation Number 6, Part A and made the corresponding revisions to
Regulation Number 3 described below. The Commission also revised Regulation
Number 7 for consistency with and to complement NSPS OOOO and to include
additional emission control measures for oil and gas production operations and
equipment. Finally, the Commission revised Regulation Number 7 storage tank control
requirements with the intent that industry could utilize such controls when determining
whether a storage tank was subject to NSPS OOOO.

These Regulation Number 3 revisions were important to the comprehensive proposal
because they reduced reporting and permitting burdens that would otherwise occur
when NSPS OOOO was adopted in full. These Regulation Number 3 revisions apply
broadly to all emission sources and are not solely applicable to oil and gas operations.

Catch-all Provisions

The Commission removed the catch-all provisions in Part A, Sections II.D.1. and Part B,
Sections II.A.5. and II.D. so that sources subject to a New Source Performance
Standard (“NSPS”), National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants
(“NESHAP”), or Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“MACT”) incorporated into
Regulation Numbers 6 or 8 are not automatically required to file an APEN and obtain a
minor source permit, regardless of whether the source’s uncontrolled actual emissions
exceeded reporting or permitting thresholds.




                                                                                      593
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

These rule changes reduced the administrative reporting and permitting burden for the
Division and the regulated community, both for sources subject to NSPS OOOO and
other future NSPS and NESHAP/MACT. For example, NSPS OOOO affected facilities
with uncontrolled actual emissions less than the reporting and permitting thresholds no
longer automatically have to file APENs and obtain minor source permits. This reduced
permitting burden will allow the Division to reallocate permitting resources to more
complicated sources with the greater impact to Colorado’s air quality, as well as to
develop and maintain other guidance and compliance assistance tools. The
environmental impacts of this revision were minimal and no emissions increases were
anticipated because the revisions did not exempt any source from complying with the
requirements of an applicable NSPS, NESHAP, or MACT.

Part A, Appendix A

The Commission revised the Part A, Appendix A method for determining non-criteria
reportable pollutant de minimis levels in order to standardize the de minimis reporting
threshold and set a 250 pounds per year threshold for all non-criteria reportable
pollutants. This revised threshold applies statewide. This revision simplified non-criteria
reportable pollutant reporting by eliminating the determination of reporting level based
on release point, property boundary, and pollutant bin. Prior to revision, these reporting
determinations were complicated and confusing, and sources often utilized the most
stringent reporting threshold with the applicable Bin category, rather than attempt to
follow the methodology. This revision increased regulatory clarity and reduced the
administrative reporting burdens for both the Division and the regulated community by
simplifying the process. No emissions increases were anticipated as a result of this
revision because this revision was administrative in nature and did not change the
applicability of controls or regulations to sources.

Crude Oil Storage Tanks

The Commission removed the crude oil storage tank permitting exemptions in Part B,
Section II.D.1.n. and Part C, Section II.E.3.ddd. The emissions from crude oil storage
tanks can be significant and permitting exemptions are meant to be limited to emission
points with negligible impacts on air quality.


                                                                                         594
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Crude Oil and Condensate Truck Loading Equipment

The Commission corrected an error in Part B, Section II.D.1.l. by removing the last
sentence of the crude oil truck loading equipment minor source permitting exemption. In
2006, the Regulation Number 3 APEN exemption inadvertently merged the original
exemption language with the 2002 exemption revision so that in 2008, when the
Commission removed the APEN exemption to build the emissions inventory and moved
the exemption in Part B to maintain the associated permitting exemption, the erroneous
language persisted. This revision corrected that error.

I.YY. Adopted November 20, 2014
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103, the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

Regulation Number 3, Part F – revising the NOx emission limit, compliance date and
BART determination for Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association (“Tri-State”),
Craig Station Unit 1.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1) directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the
legislative declaration set forth in Section 25-7-102 and are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7, including a comprehensive state
implementation plan which will prevent significant deterioration of air quality. Section 25-
7-109(1)(a) authorizes the Commission to require the use of air pollution controls.
Section 109(2) authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations
pertaining to visible pollutants and nitrogen oxides.

Purpose

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (“Commission”) revises Regulation
Number 3, Part F, Section VI., containing the Regional Haze Best Available Retrofit


                                                                                         595
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Technology (“BART”) determinations that the Commission adopted and the EPA
approved as part of Colorado’s Regional Haze State Implementation Plan (“SIP”).

After EPA approved Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP, WildEarth Guardians and the
National Parks Conservation Association challenged portions of this approval by filing
suit against EPA in the Tenth Circuit. As part of this lawsuit, the plaintiffs contested the
nitrogen oxides (“NOx”) provisions for Craig Station Unit 1. In furtherance of settlement
of this litigation, the Commission has revised Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section VI.
to strengthen the NOx emission limit and set the compliance deadline for Craig Station
Unit 1. The Commission revised Craig Station Unit 1’s BART determination for NOx by
revising the NOx emission limit from 0.28 lb/MMBtu to 0.07 lb/MMBtu, and revising the
associated compliance deadline from January 30, 2018, to August 31, 2021. The
Commission also clarified that compliance with the specified emission limits and
compliance dates for both Units 1 and 2 constitute BART for this facility.

In addition to the regulatory changes described, the Division proposes to make
corresponding changes to Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP: Chapter 6 - Best Available
Retrofit Technology; Chapter 9 – Long Term Strategy; and Appendix C – Technical
Support for the BART Determinations. The revisions to the Regional Haze SIP do not
impact the emission limits or compliance deadline for Craig Station Unit 2. The revised
chapters fully replace previously adopted SIP chapters.

Findings of Fact

Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP revisions are consistent with EPA’s federal requirements
under the Regional Haze rule. Accordingly, the revisions do not exceed the
requirements of the federal act or differ from the federal act or rules. However, to the
extent that these revisions could be viewed as exceeding or differing from the federal
act, the Commission determines in accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b):

       (I)    Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP was drafted in accordance with EPA’s
              Regional Haze Rule. The Regional Haze Rule provides states flexibility in
              how states may consider the federal statutory and regulatory factors when
              determining BART and reasonable progress goals.




                                                                                           596
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

     (II)    EPA’s regional haze requirements are performance based. The Regional
             Haze Rule sets forth factors the states must consider when determining
             BART for sources reasonably anticipated to cause or contribute to the
             impairment of visibility in federal Class I areas. States have the discretion
             to select the appropriate controls for such sources.

     (III)   EPA’s Regional Haze Rule guides how states must determine BART for
             their BART-eligible sources. However, state discretion is a cornerstone of
             the Regional Haze Rule (70 FR 39137). Colorado considered Colorado’s
             issues of concern when developing these revisions.

     (IV)    The adopted revisions will improve Tri-State’s ability to comply with the
             goals of the Regional Haze Rule while preventing or reducing the need for
             costly retrofits potentially required in Colorado’s next reasonable progress
             planning period.

     (V)     The Regional Haze Rule requires source to comply with the BART
             determinations as expeditiously as possible but no later than five years
             after EPA approves the SIP. Concerning this revision, the Division must
             submit a proposed SIP revision to EPA no later than July 31, 2015, and
             EPA must take final action on the proposed SIP revision by December 31,
             2016. The revised compliance deadline for Craig Station Unit 1 of August
             31, 2021, is slightly less than five years after EPA’s approval, which is
             within the time frame for implementation set by the Regional Haze Rule.

     (VI)    The adopted rule will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
             margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth.

     (VII)   The adopted rule establishes reasonable equity for sources because the
             Regional Haze Rule applies the same standards for determining BART to
             all BART-eligible sources. BART determinations are source specific and
             different controls and emission limits are to be expected.




                                                                                         597
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      (VIII) If the revisions were not adopted, litigation would continue concerning the
              regional haze requirements for Craig Station that would entail associated
              costs and uncertainties as to the outcome.

      (IX)    These revisions do not modify the currently approved procedural,
              reporting, or monitoring requirements in Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP.

      (X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revised NOx
              emission rate for Craig Station Unit 1.

      (XI)    The revisions will contribute to further reductions of NOx emissions and
              therefore contribute to the prevention of pollution.

      (XII)   Neither an alternative rule nor a no action alternative would address or
              achieve the emission reductions to be achieved through these revisions.
              Further, failure to adopt the revisions could result in further expensive and
              time consuming litigation concerning Colorado’s regional haze provisions
              for Craig Station Unit 1.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section VI., the
Commission has taken into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-
109(1)(b).

To the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

      (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed,
              and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered
              all information submitted by interested parties.

      (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
              demonstrable reduction of NOx emissions.

      (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
              reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
              costs to implement and comply with the rules.



                                                                                         598
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

        (IV)   The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary reduction in
               air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

        (V)    The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
               regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors.

I.ZZ. Adopted January 21, 2016
Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.44. – revising GHG permitting thresholds.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S.,
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”)
Procedural Rules.

Basis

The Commission revised the definition of “subject to regulation” to correspond to
revisions to the federal definition of subject to regulation.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-105(1)(a), 25-7-
201 through 25-7-206, 25-7-210, 25-7-301, and 25-7-302, C.R.S. authorize the
Commission to promulgate a comprehensive State Implementation Plan (“SIP”) which
will assure attainment and maintenance of national ambient air quality standards
(“NAAQS”) and prevent significant deterioration (“PSD”) of air quality in conformance
with the Federal and Colorado Acts. Section 25-7-105(1)(c) further requires the
Commission to promulgate a PSD program in conformity with federal requirements,
including definitions that do not differ from the federal definitions.

Purpose

In 2014, the United States Supreme Court held that EPA could not treat GHG as a
pollutant for purposes of defining a “major emitting facility” (or a “modification” thereof)
for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) or a “major source” for Title V,



                                                                                          599
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

essentially invalidating the Step 2 GHG permitting thresholds in EPA’s Tailoring Rule.
(see Util. Air Regulatory Grp. v. EPA, 134 S. Ct. 2427 (2014)) In 2015, the Court of
Appeals vacated EPA regulations to the extent that they required a stationary source
obtain a PSD or Title V permit solely because the source emitted GHG in excess of
applicable GHG-major source thresholds. (see Coalition for Responsible Regulation v.
EPA, Nos. 09-1322, 10-073, 10-1092, 10-1167 (2015)) On August 19, 2015 (80 Fed.
Reg. 50199), EPA issued a final rule that removed the Step 2 GHG permitting
thresholds from the definitions of subject to regulation at 40 CFR Sections 51.166 and
52.21.

In response to the court decisions and EPA’s corresponding revisions, the Commission
revised Section I.B.44.e. to correspond to the federal definition of subject to regulation.

Further, the Commission corrected any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors found within the regulation.




                                                                                        600
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.AAA.        Adopted October 12, 2016
Regulation Number 3, Part D, Sections II.A.22.b., II.A.25.b., and II.A.44.a.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S.
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”).

Basis

The Commission revised the definition of “major stationary source” contained in
Regulation Number 3, Part D, Section II. to include the ozone nonattainment area major
source thresholds, consistent with federal requirements. The Commission also revised
the definitions of “major emission unit” and “significant” in Regulation Number 3, Part D,
Section II.

Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-105(1)(a), 25-7-
301, and 25-7-302, C.R.S. authorize the Commission to promulgate a comprehensive
State Implementation Plan (“SIP”) which will assure attainment and maintenance of
national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) in conformance with the Federal and
Colorado Acts. Section 25-7-105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the emission notice, construction
permit, and Title V programs. Pursuant to Section 25-7-106, C.R.S., the Commission
has the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and may
promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program.

Purpose

Major Stationary Source Definition

Regulation Number 3, Part D, concerning Major Stationary Source New Source Review
(“NSR”) and Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”), applies statewide to any
new or existing major stationary source (Section I.) and it has been fully incorporated
into Colorado’s SIP. If a source is a “major stationary source” as defined in Section
II.A.25.b., then it will need to comply with Sections V. (Requirements Applicable to


                                                                                        601
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Nonattainment Areas) and VI. (Requirements applicable to attainment and
unclassifiable areas and pollutants implemented under Section 110 of the Federal Act
(PSD Program)) of Part D, as applicable.

A major stationary source is defined as, “Any stationary source of air pollutants that
emits, or has the potential to emit 100 tons per year or more of any regulated NSR
pollutant for which the area is nonattainment.” Unlike the federal definition, Colorado’s
definition of “major stationary source” does not step-down the thresholds for determining
what is a major source based on ozone nonattainment area classification. See 40
C.F.R. § 51.165(a)(1)(iv)(A)(1) and 40 C.F.R. Part 51, Appendix S. Thus, if an ozone
nonattainment area were ever classified or reclassified as serious or severe, in order to
maintain permitting authority, Colorado would need to adopt the same lower major
stationary source thresholds that would apply on a federal basis before permitting new
or modified sources. Therefore, in order to ensure consistency with federal definitions
and to provide regulatory certainty by avoiding any disruption to the permitting process
should Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area ever be reclassified to a more stringent
classification beyond a moderate nonattainment area, the Commission has revised the
definition of “major stationary source” contained in Part D, Section II.A.25.b. to include
the ozone nonattainment area major source thresholds.

Major Emissions Unit Definition

Currently, Section II.A.22.b. defines a major emissions unit as, “Any emissions unit that
emits or has the potential to emit an amount that is equal to or greater than the major
stationary source threshold (as defined in Section II.A.25. of this part) for the [plant-wide
applicability limitation (PAL)] pollutant for nonattainment areas.” The definition of major
emissions unit in Section II.A.22.b. then goes on to provide an example of when an
emissions unit would be a major emissions unit for volatile organic compounds. This
example is not required to maintain consistency with federal definitions and it does not
provide additional clarity to the regulation. Therefore, the Commission is removing this
example.

Significant Definition




                                                                                         602
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Currently, the definition of significant contained in Section II.A.44.a. (in reference to a
net emissions increase or the potential of a source to emit air pollutants) contains
emission rates in tons per year, but it does not contain emission rates pertaining to
serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment areas. In order to ensure consistency
with federal definitions and provide certainty by avoiding any disruption in the permitting
process, the Commission is adding emission rates for serious, severe and extreme
ozone nonattainment areas.

Further, the Commission corrected any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors found within the regulation.

I.BBB.        Adopted December 15, 2016
Regulation Number 3, Part F – Revising the BART and Reasonable Progress
determinations for Craig Station Unit 1 (“Craig Unit 1”) and Nucla (“Nucla”).

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103, the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules.

Basis

Regulation Number 3, Part F – Revising the BART and Reasonable Progress
determinations for Craig Unit 1 and Nucla, respectively.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, C.R.S. § 25-7-105(1) directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the
legislative declaration set forth in Section 25-7-102 and are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7, including a comprehensive state
implementation plan which will prevent significant deterioration of air quality. Section 25-
7-109 authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control regulations pertaining to air
pollutants.

Purpose




                                                                                          603
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (“Commission”) makes targeted revisions
to portions of Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section VI., containing the Regional Haze
Best Available Retrofit Technology (“BART”) and Reasonable Progress determinations
that the Commission previously adopted as part of Colorado’s Regional Haze State
Implementation Plan (“SIP”).



After the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) approved Colorado’s Regional
Haze SIP, WildEarth Guardians and the National Parks Conservation Association
(“NPCA”) challenged portions of the approval by filing suit in the Tenth Circuit
(Guardians v. EPA, No. 13-9520 and NPCA v. EPA, No. 13-9525). As part of that
lawsuit, the plaintiffs contested the nitrogen oxides (“NOX”) provisions for Craig Unit 1,
which is owned, in part, and operated by Tri-State Generation and Transmission
Association, Inc. (“Tri-State”). In furtherance of settlement of that litigation, in 2014, the
Commission approved revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section VI. to change
the Craig Unit 1 NOX emission limit from 0.28 lb/MMBtu to 0.07 lb/MMBtu, and set the
associated compliance deadline for Craig Station Unit 1 as August 31, 2021.

Since the Commission approved the 2014 revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F and
Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP, an agreement has been reached involving Craig Unit 1
and Nucla Station (“Nucla”). The agreement includes the following commitments:

       (I)     Craig Unit 1 will either close on or before December 31, 2025 or cease
               burning coal no later than August 31, 2021 with the option to convert the
               unit to natural-gas firing by August 31, 2023;

       (II)    In the case of a conversion to natural-gas firing, a 30-day rolling average
               NOX emission limit of 0.07 lb/MMBtu will be effective after August 31,
               2021;

       (III)   For both scenarios, Craig Unit 1 will be subject to a NOX emission limit of
               0.28 lb/MMBtu, on a 30 day rolling average, effective January 1, 2017 (first
               compliance date January 31, 2017), until converting to natural gas or
               permanently shutting down;



                                                                                           604
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

       (IV)   Craig Unit 1 will be subject to an annual NOX emission limit of 4,065 tons
              per year effective on December 31, 2019 on a calendar year basis
              beginning in 2020;

       (V)    Nucla will close on or before December 31, 2022; and

       (VI)   Nucla will be subject to an annual NOX emission limit of 952 tons per year
              effective January 1, 2020 on a calendar year basis beginning in 2020.

The Air Pollution Control Division (“Division”) conducted a BART reassessment for Craig
Unit 1 and Reasonable Progress review for Nucla, respectively, taking into account the
agreement. The agreement reflects a changing industry, economic, and regulatory
landscape that does not necessarily favor the installation of costly post-combustion
retrofit controls on aging coal-fired electric generating units. The agreement and these
revisions will also result in greater emissions reductions than would result from the
previously approved SIP. The Commission’s adoption of these revisions will result in
further reductions of visibility impairing pollutants, in addition to providing other
environmental co-benefits.

In accordance with the BART reassessment and Reasonable Progress review, the
Commission revises 3, Part F, Section VI to reflect the applicable elements of the
agreement described herein.

In addition to the regulatory changes to Regulation Number 3, Part F, the Commission
revises corresponding portions of Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP: Chapter 6 – Best
Available Retrofit Technology; Chapter 8 – Reasonable Progress; Appendix C –
Technical Support for the BART Determinations; and Appendix D – Technical Support
for the Reasonable Progress Determinations. The revised chapters fully replace
previously adopted SIP chapters. The revisions to Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP,
Chapter 6 –Best Available Retrofit Technology and Appendix C – Technical Support
Document - for the BART Determinations, include, among other things, revised cost
comparisons as part of the NOx BART reassessment for Craig Unit 1. The Commission
is aware of the fact that there are differing views among parties to the recent agreement
as to what the appropriate amortization periods should be for use in calculating the cost
effectiveness of SNCR and SCR in Scenario 1 (closure on or before December 31,


                                                                                        605
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

2025). The Commission finds that regardless of the amortization period used, under
Scenario 1, both SNCR and SCR are not cost effective when the remaining useful life is
shortened.

The revisions also correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors.

Findings of Fact

Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP revisions are consistent with EPA’s federal requirements
under the Regional Haze rule. Accordingly, the revisions do not exceed the
requirements of the federal act or differ from the federal act or rules. However, to the
extent that these revisions could be viewed as exceeding or differing from the federal
act, the Commission determines in accordance with C.R.S. § 25-7-110.5(5)(b):

       (I)     Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP was drafted in accordance with EPA’s
               Regional Haze Rule. The Regional Haze Rule provides states flexibility in
               how states may consider the federal statutory and regulatory factors when
               determining BART and reasonable progress goals.

       (II)    EPA’s regional haze requirements are performance based. The Regional
               Haze Rule sets forth factors the states must consider when determining
               BART for sources reasonably anticipated to cause or contribute to the
               impairment of visibility in federal Class I areas. States have the discretion
               to select the appropriate controls for such sources.

       (III)   EPA’s Regional Haze Rule guides how states must determine BART for
               their BART-eligible sources. However, state discretion is a cornerstone of
               the Regional Haze Rule (70 FR 39137). Colorado considered Colorado’s
               issues of concern when developing these revisions.

       (IV)    The adopted revisions will improve industry’s ability to comply with the
               goals of the Regional Haze Rule in a more cost-effective way, by
               increasing certainty and preventing or reducing the need for costly
               retrofits.

       (V)     The timing of the adopted revisions has been considered. The timeframe
               of the adopted revisions allows for the avoidance of costly retrofits.


                                                                                           606
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

      (VI)    The adopted rule will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable
              margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth.

      (VII)   The adopted rule establishes reasonable equity for sources because the
              Regional Haze Rule applies the same standards for determining BART to
              all BART-eligible sources. BART determinations are source specific and
              different controls and emission limits are to be expected.

      (VIII) Adoption of a more stringent rule would not reduce costs upon other
              entities.

      (IX)    These revisions do not modify the currently approved procedural,
              reporting, or monitoring requirements in Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP.

      (X)     Technology is available to comply with the adopted revisions. The
              technology to convert to natural gas is a demonstrated and already utilized
              technology.

      (XI)    The revisions will lead to further reductions of air pollutant emissions,
              contribute to the prevention of pollution, and represent a more cost-
              effective environmental gain.

      (XII)   Neither an alternative rule nor a no action alternative would address or
              achieve the emission reductions to be achieved through these revisions.
              Further, failure to adopt the revisions could result in expensive and time
              consuming retrofits or litigation.

As part of adopting the revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section VI., the
Commission has taken into consideration each of the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 25-7-
109(1)(b).

To the extent that C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

      (I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed,
              and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered
              all information submitted by interested parties.


                                                                                          607
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

         (II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
                 demonstrable reduction of air pollutant emissions.

         (III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
                 reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the
                 costs to implement and comply with the rules.

         (IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary reduction in
                 air pollution and provide the regulated community flexibility.

         (V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
                 regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

I.CCC.           Adopted: October 18, 2018
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S.
and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”).

Basis

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A to increase air
pollutant emission notice filing fees, permit processing fees, and annual emission fees
in accordance with House Bill 18-1400. The increase is necessary to address revenue
shortage and fund existing programs. Concurrent with these revisions and also pursuant
to House Bill 18-1400, the Air Pollution Control Division (“Division”) has convened a
stakeholder group consisting of affected industries to (1) identify and assess measures
to improve billing practices and increase accounting transparency with respect to
application processing fees, including providing more detail on the application review
process and the time spent on the process, and (2) assess potential efficiency
improvements, including associated metrics to measure the Division’s performance, with
respect to Division activities financed by the stationary sources control fund. Beginning
in 2019, and continuing through 2023, as directed by House Bill 18-1400, the Division
will present the results and progress of this stakeholder process, including improved


                                                                                            608
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

billing practices, increased accounting transparency, implemented efficiency
improvements and efficiency metrics, to the House of Representatives Health,
Insurance, and Environmental Committee and the Senate Health and Human Services
Committee, or any successor committees.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-114.1 and 25-7-
114.7 authorize annual emission fees, air pollutant emission notice filing fees, and
permit application processing fees.

Purpose

The revisions to the fee provisions in Part A were adopted to address revenue shortfalls
and fund existing programs.

Further, these revisions correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors
found within the regulation.

I.DDD.         Adopted: December 19, 2019
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Sections I., and II., Part B, Sections II., and
III., and Part C, Section II.E.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (“Commission”) Procedural Rules, 5 Code
Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2019 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted SB 19-181
(Concerning additional public welfare protections regarding the conduct of oil and gas
operations), revising §25-7-109, C.R.S. SB 19-181 directs the Commission to “adopt
rules to minimize emissions of methane and other hydrocarbons, volatile organic
compounds [VOC], and oxides of nitrogen [NOx] from oil and natural gas exploration




                                                                                       609
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and production facilities and natural gas facilities in the processing, gathering and
boosting, storage, and transmission segments of the natural gas supply chain.”

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Stationary Source
Permitting and Air Pollutant Emission Notice Requirements. Specifically, the
Commission adopted revisions: (1) in Part A, Section I.B., to revise existing definitions
and add an existing definition from Regulation Number 7 to promote consistency across
State regulations; (2) in Part A, Sections II.A. and II.D., and Part B, Sections II.D., III.B.,
and III.G., to update the APEN reporting and permitting requirements for oil and gas well
production facilities; (3) in Part A, Section II.D., Part B, Section II.D., and Part C, Section
II.E to clarify and narrow existing APEN and permitting exemptions and repeal certain
exemptions related to oil and gas wastewater impoundments; (4) in Part B, Sections
II.A., and III.I., to more closely align language with Colorado Statute; (5) in Part B,
Section II.B., to clarify when transfer of ownership forms are due and where the
compliance responsibilities lies during the transfer process.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-114.1 and 25-7-114.7
authorize annual emission fees, air pollutant emission notice filing fees, and permit
application processing fees. Section 25-7-114.2 authorizes the construction permitting
program. Section 25-7-105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations
necessary to implement the provisions of the emission notice, construction permit, and
Title V programs. Pursuant to § 25-7-106, C.R.S., the Commission has the maximum
flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and may promulgate regulations
as necessary or desirable to carry out that program. Section 25-7-106(6) further
authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution source
to monitor, record, and report information.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rational for the
adoption of the revisions. The Commission adopted revisions to APEN requirements
both to clarify the timing of APEN submittal for oil and gas well production facilities, to


                                                                                            610
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

clarify the APEN (and permitting) requirement for venting of natural gas lines, and to
remove the exemption for certain produced water impoundments and tanks. The
Commission also removed the 90-day permitting deferral for oil and gas well production
facilities, which will now need to obtain coverage under a permit prior to construction.
The Commission made other clarifying and related revisions to the construction
permitting program to conform to current implementation practice and to statute.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

The following explanations provide further insight into the Commission’s intention for
certain revisions and, where appropriate, the technological or scientific rationale for the
revision.

Definition Revisions (Part A, Section I)

The Commission revised the definition of “Commencement of Operation” in Part A,
Section I.B. to ensure clarity for oil and gas operations and to aid with compliance and
ensure consistency across state air regulations. The Commission’s definition reflects
that when permanent equipment is on-site and operating, commencement of operation
has occurred, even if there is some temporary equipment still on-site. For example, if a
well is producing into one temporary tank and two permanent storage tanks, the storage
tanks have commenced operation for purposes of Regulation Number 3. The
Commission’s revision decouples the requirement from any specific stage of well
operation – i.e. commencement of operation is not always determined by the transition
from well completion operations into startup of production as those terms are defined by
40 C.F.R. §60.5430a (Subpart OOOOa). However, to ensure that an operator cannot
simply continue to produce into temporary tanks indefinitely and thereby avoid APEN
reporting and permitting requirements, the Commission has clarified that the end of
flowback (i.e. when product is capable of consistently flowing to permanent equipment)
is the latest date at which commencement of operation may occur. The Commission’s
definition also reflects that the date of commencement of operation may be different for
different sources at the same site (e.g. separation equipment v. storage tanks).




                                                                                         611
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission also duplicated the definition of “Well Production Facility” from
Regulation Number 7 in Regulation Number 3 to ensure consistency.

Oil and Gas APEN and Permitting Revisions (Part A, Section II; Part B, Section III)

Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II.D. and Part B, Section II.D., currently allow oil
and gas exploration and production facilities (well sites and associated equipment) to
defer APEN reporting and construction permitting requirements for up to 90 days after
the first date of production. This provision was established in 1993 to allow sources
sufficient time to determine production levels before being required to submit APENs or
construction permit applications. This deferral previously referred to an undefined term
“exploration and production”. In practice, that has been analogous with the currently
defined term well production facility in the context of Regulation Number 3. The
Commission believes that this deferral period for permits is no longer necessary or
appropriate. Therefore, the Commission has repealed the deferral in Part B, Section
II.D.7. Oil and gas well production facilities now require a pre-construction permit just
like all other sources subject to Part B.

However, the Commission continues to recognize that oil and gas well production
facilities will better understand and predict emissions once production is underway.
Therefore, the Commission has amended Part A, Section II.A.2 to maintain the
requirements that owners or operators of well production facilities are required to: (1)
submit APENs no later than 90 days following commencement of operation for new
facilities after January 1, 2020; and (2) submit APENs prior to modifications of the well
production facilities. This requirement is not intended to interfere with existing or future
permitting mechanisms that allow for modifications to a source without the submittal of
an APEN to the Division, such as under a General Permit 01, which in Section III.A
prescribes that operators may perform certain specified modifications without modifying
the general permit registration (i.e. submitting a revised APEN).

The Commission has also revised Part B, Section III.B.2., to allow the Division more
flexibility in the permitting process, such as requiring emissions information to be
submitted on forms other than APENs.

Alignment with Statute (Part B, Sections II.A and III.I.2.a)


                                                                                          612
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission updated language in Part B, Section II.A.1., and Part B, Section
III.I.2.a., to align with existing language with the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act
provision regarding permits. See §25-7-114.2, C.R.S. These revisions are intended to
reflect how the Part B permitting program has been operated and implemented, and to
ensure consistency with the governing statute. In making these revisions, the
Commission does not intend to change the timing of the requirement to obtain a pre-
construction permit (i.e. sources still need to obtain a permit prior to commencing
construction). The Commission also does not intend for this rule revision to apply to
grandfathered sources.

Transfer of Ownership (Part B, Section II.B)

The Commission revised Part B, Section II.B., to clarify that a transfer of ownership form
is due to the Division within 30 days of completion of a transfer or assignment of
ownership for reissuance of existing permits. Previous language indicated that a
“prospective” owner must submit the transfer of ownership form, indicating that the form
must be submitted prior to acquisition. This was unworkable for many sources, and
resulted in confusion about the requirement. The language has also been modified to
explicitly state that the responsibility for compliance with existing permitting
requirements transfers to the new owner or operator when the forms are submitted.

Exemption Revision and Clarifications (Part A, Sections II.D.1.uuu and II.D.1.zzz; Part
B, Section II.D.1.m; Part C, Sections II.E.3.uu, II.E.3.yyy, and II.E.3.dddd.)

The Commission has clarified an existing APEN reporting and permitting exemption for
emissions resulting from venting of natural gas lines for safety purposes. This
exemption is contained in Part A, Section II.D.1.zzz. and Part C, Section II.E.3.dddd.
These provisions were added in March 1996 and were intended to apply only to fuel gas
lines on utility boilers within a generation building. However, as some stakeholders
noted, the Statement of Basis explanation of the Commission’s intent in 1996 was not
reflected in the language ultimately adopted by the Commission. Nor is that Statement
of Basis language consistently reflected in the permitting and enforcement practices of
the Division.




                                                                                         613
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

As a result, the Commission has determined that it is no longer appropriate to exempt
from APEN and permitting requirements those venting activities that are routine or
predictable, and which are likely to result in emissions. The Commission is also
clarifying that these routine or predictable activities that take place across the year at or
associated with a stationary source are to be grouped together for purposes of APEN
reporting and permitting. For example, the “routine or predictable” blowdown of oil and
gas equipment, such as storage tanks or compressors, for maintenance (e.g.,
preventive maintenance, well swabbing or unloading), gauging, and loadout, as well as
venting from pipeline pigging activities must be aggregated across the year and
reported and permitted accordingly. Oil and gas sources may use some existing APEN
forms, such as APEN Form 211, which covers gas venting from certain oil and gas
equipment.

The Commission has also revised the exemptions in Part A, Section II.D.1.uuu. Part B,
Section II.D.1.m., and Part C, Section II.E.3.uu., and II.E.3.yyy., to no longer exclude oil
and gas production wastewater impoundments that contain less than 1% by volume
crude oil on an annual average from APEN and permitting requirements. The
Commission has determined that even at these low concentrations, these sources may
have significant emissions, and therefore an exemption from reporting and permitting
requirements is no longer appropriate. However, sources may still rely upon the general
APEN exemption found in Part A, Section II.A. if emissions are sufficiently low.

The Commission recognizes that sources will need some time to evaluate whether
APENs and permits are necessary for emissions that have historically been exempt
under these three categories of exemptions. The Commission intends for these rule
revisions to apply to existing sources, not just newly constructed and modified, with the
understanding that the submission of APENs and issuance of appropriate permits will
not be able to occur prior to the effective date of this rule revision. Therefore, the
Commission directs the Division to develop a memorandum for use by operators during
the implementation of this rule that will clarify the due dates for APENs and permit
applications, where appropriate. Additionally, the Commission intends that operators
subject to these new requirements must submit APENs or permit applications (if
applicable) for sources expected to be at or above the appropriate thresholds, and


                                                                                         614
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

cannot wait until the source has emissions over APEN or permitting thresholds on a
rolling-12 month basis to evaluate the need for an APEN or permit.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Parts A, B and C that correspond to APEN updates, transfer of
ownership, and to the pre-construction permitting requirements do not exceed or differ
from the requirements of the federal act or rules. Therefore, neither §§ 25-7-110.5(5)(a)
or 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., apply.

Hundreds of people from across the state submitted written comments on the proposed
changes to Regulation Numbers 3 and 7. Most of these written comments called for
additional regulation of oil and gas operations, to fulfill the directives of SB 19-181,
protect public health, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Prior to the rulemaking
hearing, the Commission held public comment sessions in Rifle, Durango, and
Loveland, on December 10, 11 and 16, respectively. Dozens of members of the public
spoke at each of these sessions. Many commenters expressed support for the
proposed changes to Regulation Numbers 3 and 7, citing concerns about risks to health
and to the climate from oil and gas emissions. Many commenters at the Rifle and
Durango meetings emphasized the need for rules to be applied statewide. Commenters
also called on the Commission to develop requirements for continuous monitoring of oil
and gas emissions. Some speakers at each comment session expressed concern that
the industry was being overregulated, with some on the Western Slope emphasizing
that their part of the state was in attainment with ozone standards and expressing
concerns with the impact more stringent rules might have on the industry.

I.EEE. Adopted: December 16, 2020
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part F.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.



                                                                                           615
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Basis

EPA’s Regional Haze rule requires states to reduce emissions of visibility impairing
pollutants that negatively impact class I areas. The Commission has previously
approved regional haze requirements in Regulation Number 3 that included emission
reduction requirements for sources subject to Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART)
and Reasonable Progress (RP) requirements during the first planning period of the
regional haze program. In this rulemaking, the Commission adopted revisions to
Regulations Number 3 transferring these previously established determinations from
Regulation Number 3, Part F to the new Regulation Number 23, which will be the
central repository for new and existing provisions to comply with the regional haze rule.
This change is intended to improve readability of Regulation Number 3 as well as the
regional haze requirements.

Regulation Number 23 will contain BART and RP determinations from the first regional
haze planning period, as well as new emissions reductions requirements to meet the
reasonable progress goals for the second 10-year planning period. The existing
emission limits and new requirements established for specified sources will limit
emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and particulate matter (PM10)
to improve visibility in Colorado’s twelve class I areas. Many of the emission reduction
requirements have the benefit of also reducing greenhouse gas and other emissions.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the
Commission the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and
authority to promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
Section 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations
as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in Section 25-7-102 and are
necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article 7, including a
comprehensive state implementation plan which will prevent significant deterioration of
air quality. Section 25-7-109 authorizes the Commission to adopt emission control
regulations pertaining to air pollutants. Section 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the




                                                                                       616
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor,
record, and report information.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rational for the
adoption of the revisions.

The sections of Regulation Number 3, Part F discussing applicability of the regional
haze provisions, relevant definitions, the BART and RP determinations from the first 10-
year planning period, and the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements will be
transferred to Regulation Number 23. Regulation Number 23 will also contain new
emission reduction requirements to meet the RP goals for the second 10-year planning
period. Any new emission reduction requirements in Regulation Number 23 will be
discussed in the SBAP for that regulation.

The Commission did not move into Regulation Number 23 but deleted Regulation
Number 3, Part F, Sections III. and IV. As discussed in the March 16, 2006, Regulation
Number 3 Statement of Basis and Purpose, EPA’s regional haze regulations require
states to define BART-eligible facilities and require sources subject to BART to complete
a BART analysis. Regulation Number 3, Part F, Sections III. and IV. identified which
sources were required to perform a BART analysis and specified the elements of the
BART analysis. The federal rules also require states to submit a SIP identifying the
BART-eligible sources and either the BART controls or the BART alternative. The
Commission adopted BART controls and/or BART alternatives for the BART-eligible
sources in December 19, 2008, January 7, 2011, November 20, 2014, and December
15, 2016. EPA last approved Colorado’s Regional Haze SIP on July 5, 2018 (83 Fed.
Reg. 31332). Therefore, the provisions identifying which sources must perform a BART
analysis and specifying the elements of a BART analysis are no longer necessary as
those provisions led to the BART and RP determinations now approved by EPA. The
Commission also did not move but deleted Regulation Number 3, Part F, Sections
VI.A.4. and VI.B.4. These provisions required sources to submit and the Division to
publish compliance schedules for the sources in the BART and RP determinations


                                                                                       617
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

tables. As these requirements have also passed, and were complied with, they are no
longer necessary. Removing these provisions will improve and facilitate the readability
and better allow the regulated community and other interested persons to identify and
understand the provisions governing their activities.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of Section 24-
4-103(12.5) are met by including specific information and making the regulations
available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 3.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Part F will be discussed in the Regulation Number 23 Statement of
Basis and Purpose.

I.FFF. Adopted: December 18, 2020
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Sections I. and II.; Part B, Sections III.C. and
III.D.; Part C, Sections II.E.3.xxx., III.B., III.C., VI.B., and X.D.; Part D, Sections II.A.11.
and IV.A..

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis




                                                                                             618
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The proposed revisions to Regulation Number 3 revise definitions and construction,
operating, and new source review permitting programs to update definitions and
conform to current implementation practice and corresponding federal regulations.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the
Commission the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and
authority to promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
Section 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations
as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in Section 25-7-102 and are
necessary for the proper implementation and administration of Article 7, including a
comprehensive state implementation plan which will prevent significant deterioration of
air quality. Section 25-7-114.2 authorizes the construction permitting program. Section
25-7-105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations necessary to
implement the provisions of the emission notice, construction permit, and Title V
programs. Section 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission to require owners
and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rational for the
adoption of the revisions.

Global warming potential

The Commission revised the CO2e definition in Part A, Sections I.B.10. and I.B.44.b.(i)
to update the incorporation date and reflect EPA’s revisions to the global warming
potentials for fluorinated greenhouse gases in Part 98, Subpart A, Table A-1 on
December 11, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 73750 (December 24, 2014)).

Permitting programs

Regulation Number 3 includes provisions for construction permits, operating permits
(aka Title 5 permits), and new source review permits (i.e., nonattainment new source
review (NANSR) and prevention of significant deterioration (PSD)). These permitting


                                                                                        619
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

programs are authorized in the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act.
Further, the operating permit program aligns with EPA’s regulations in 40 CFR Part 70
and the new source review program aligns with EPA’s regulations in 40 CFR Part 51.
The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Part 70, and Part 51 include
requirements for public participation, including electronic notification.

The Commission revised Regulation Number 3 to update the construction, operating,
and new source review permitting programs to conform to current implementation
practice and corresponding federal regulations. Specifically, the Commission revised the
public notification provisions in Part B, Sections III.C. and III.D. to clarify for what
permits hearings may be required, in alignment with the CRS Section 25-7-114.5, and to
clarify the process for electronic notification. The Commission made similar clarifying
revisions in Part C, Section VI.B. and Part D, Sections II.A. and IV.A. The Commission
updated the provisions in Part C, Sections III.B., III.C., and X.D. to align with current
electronic submittal processes. And, the Commission updated the provisions in Part D,
Section IV.A. to align with corresponding federal language in 40 CFR Section 51.166(q).

The Commission also aligned the Part C, insignificant activities in Section II.E.3.xxx.
with the Part A, APEN exemptions. The engine exemption was removed from Part A in
2011 in response to an EPA disapproval. Corresponding revisions were made at that
time to Part C, Section II.E.3.nnn. but not Section III.E.3.xxx. The Commission now
made the corresponding revision to Section III.E.3.xxx. to be consistent with the state
implementation plan approved language in Part A.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of Section 24-
4-103(12.5) are met by including specific information and making the regulations
available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the




                                                                                            620
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 3.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Part A concerning definitions and reporting and Parts B, C, and D
concerning the construction, operating, and new source review permitting programs do
not exceed or differ from the requirements of the federal act or rules. Therefore, neither
§§ 25-7-110.5(5)(a) or 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., apply.

I.GGG.        Adopted: December 15, 2022
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Sections I., II., and VI.; Part B, Sections
III.C.; Part C, Section VI.; and Part D, Section II.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis

The proposed revisions to Regulation Number 3 revise APEN requirements to include
greenhouse gases; revise definitions and construction, operating, and new source
review permitting programs to update definitions and conform to current implementation
practice and corresponding federal regulations; supplement emissions reporting to
further address the annual reporting requirement in the Clean Air Act (CAA) Section
182; include major source fee provisions as specified in the CAA Section 185 for severe
and extreme ozone nonattainment areas; and include 1-bromopropane in the list of
reportable pollutants in Appendix B.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the
Commission the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and
authority to promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are


                                                                                        621
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and are necessary for
the proper implementation and administration of Article 7, including a comprehensive
state implementation plan which will prevent significant deterioration of air quality. § 25-
7-105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations necessary to
implement the provisions of the emission notice program. § 25-7-114.1 authorizes the
air pollutant emission notice program. § 25-7-114.2 authorizes the construction
permitting program. § 25-7-105(12) authorizes the Commission to promulgate
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the emission notice, construction
permit, and Title V programs. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission to
require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report
information.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rational for the
adoption of the revisions.

1-Bromopropane

In 2022, EPA amended the list of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) under the Clean Air Act
(CAA) to add 1-BP. See 87 Fed. Reg. 393 (Jan. 5, 2022). Regulation Number 3, Part A,
Appendix B lists state and federal HAPs and the Commission added 1-BP to
correspond to the federal list of HAPs.

Greenhouse gas APENs

In 2021, the Colorado legislature revised CRS § 25-7-114.1 to direct the Commission to
include GHGs (carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O),
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and
nitrogen trifluoride (NF3)) in the list of air pollutants required to be reported in an APEN
in a rulemaking no later than December 31, 2022. The Commission identified sources
reporting GHGs under Regulation Number 22 or Regulation Number 7 with facility
emissions greater than or equal to 25,000 tpy CO2e to include GHG emissions on an
annual facility-wide greenhouse gas APEN. The adoption of a facility-wide GHG APEN



                                                                                         622
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

program does not modify the scope, applicability, or timing of APEN reporting for non-
GHG emissions. The first GHG APENs must be submitted by December 31, 2023,
reporting 2022 emissions data. The timing of this first submittal will allow the Division to
develop a system to collect fees on GHG emissions as directed by the 2021 revisions to
CRS 25-7-114.7, which requires the Commission to establish fees sufficient to cover the
costs required to develop and administer the programs pertaining to GHG emissions.
The GHG fees may be adjusted annually. The Commission directs the Division to initiate
a stakeholder process in early 2023 to both develop a GHG reporting form for per
facility reporting by subject GHG reporters and to evaluate a potential GHG fees rule,
including potential alignments between the GHG reporting rule and a future GHG fee
rule as necessary.

Fees

The Commission updated the APEN, emissions, and permit process fees to reflect the
current fees provided in CRS §§ 24-7-114.1 and 24-7-114.7.

CAA 185 fee program

The Commission adopted revisions to include the major source fee provisions of the
CAA Section 185. Section 185 requires severe and extreme ozone nonattainment areas
to collect a fee from major stationary sources of VOC or NOx should the area fail to
attain the ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date. This major source fee
program is not required for a severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area that attains
by the applicable attainment date. However, should Colorado fail to attain the 2008
ozone NAAQS by July 20, 2027, or later if EPA grants an attainment extension, the
adopted provisions will require Colorado to implement, and sources to comply with, a
major source fee program as directed by Section 185.

CAA 182 annual emissions statements

The Commission adopted revisions to supplement the emission statement requirement
of the CAA Section 182(a)(3)(B). Section 182 requires ozone nonattainment areas to
require owners or operators of stationary sources emitting greater than or equal to 25
tpy NOx or VOC to provide annual statements concerning actual NOx and VOC



                                                                                         623
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

emissions. Regulation Number 3, Part A currently requires sources to submit an air
pollutant emission notice (APEN) reporting estimated annual actual emissions prior to
construction or modification and then at least every five years or when the source has
had a significant change in emissions (e.g., for sources of VOC or NOx emissions in the
nonattainment area emitting less than 100 tpy a change in annual actual VOC or NOx
emissions of one tpy or more or five percent, whichever is greater). Unless exempt,
sources must submit APENs for individual emission points with uncontrolled actual
emissions of NOx or VOC of one tpy or more if located in the ozone nonattainment
area. These current reporting requirements result in much more extensive reporting of
emissions than the 25 tpy threshold specified in Section 182. However, for sources that
do not have an annual significant change in emissions, Regulation Number 3 does not
require the submission of an annual APEN or annual certification of emissions.
Therefore, the Commission adopted a requirement for sources located in the ozone
nonattainment area with the potential to emit VOC and/or NOx emissions equal to or
greater than 25 tpy to certify their actual annual VOC and/or NOx emissions. This
additional certification is not intended to require sources to conduct additional review of
their APENs beyond current requirements or practice, to limit sources from operating
with variable emissions from year to year, or to require sources to submit any additional
forms in relation to this annual certification. The Commission anticipates that this
certification will occur as part of the annual emissions billing process.

Permitting programs

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part D to correspond to
EPA’s correction amendments to 40 CFR Part 51 (86 Fed. Reg. 37918 (July 19, 2021)),
to Part C to correspond to information in a public notice as in 40 CFR Section 70.7(h),
and to Part B to align with current practice.

The revisions also correct typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found
through the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to
incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-103(12.5) are met by


                                                                                        624
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

including specific information and making the regulations available because repeating
the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated would be unduly
cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the Commission
includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in Regulation
Number 3.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Part A concerning definitions, reporting, and the major source fee
program and Parts B, C, and D concerning the construction, operating, and new source
review permitting programs do not exceed or differ from the requirements of the federal
act or rules. Therefore, neither §§ 25-7-110.5(5)(a) or 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., apply.

I.HHH.         Adopted: May 18, 2023
Revisions to Regulation Number 3: Part A, Sections I.B. and II.A., Part B, Sections III.B.,
III.D., III.G., and III.J., and Part C, Sections III.B., III.C., III.D., and V.C.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S.,
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-
110.5., C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural
Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

During the 2021 legislative session, Colorado’s General Assembly adopted House Bill
(HB) 21-1266 (concerning efforts to redress the effects of environmental injustice on
disproportionately impacted communities), revising Section 25-7-114.4(5), C.R.S. HB
21-1266 directs the Commission to adopt rules that must “provide for enhanced
modeling and monitoring requirements for new and modified sources of affected
pollutants in disproportionately impacted communities that are identified or approved at
the time of permit application.” Additionally, HB 21-1266 directs the Commission to
identify disproportionately impacted communities and identify the types of monitoring
technology that can be used by the sources of affected pollutants. HB 21-1266 also
requires the Commission to “consider requiring enhanced monitoring for existing



                                                                                            625
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

sources of affected pollutants.” Affected pollutants are identified by HB 21-1266 as:
volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, fine particulate matter, and hazardous air
pollutants identified by the Commission, including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and
xylene.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-114.2, C.R.S.
authorizes the construction permitting program. Section 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. authorizes
the Commission to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the
emission notice, construction permit, and Title V programs. Section 25-7-106, C.R.S.
provides the Commission the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control
program and authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations as necessary or
desirable to carry out that program. Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S. further authorizes the
Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor,
record, and report information. Section 25-7-114.4(5), C.R.S. authorizes the
Commission to promulgate enhanced modeling and monitoring requirements for new or
modified sources of affected pollutants in disproportionately impacted communities, and
to identify those disproportionately impacted communities. Further, Section 25-7-
106(1)(c), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate “[e]mission control
regulations that are applicable to the entire state, that are applicable only within
specified areas or zones of the state, or that are applicable only when a specified class
of pollution is present.”

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Definition Revisions (Part A, Section I.B.)

With this action, the Commission is identifying Disproportionately Impacted
Communities as set forth in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D), (F), C.R.S. (2023).
Further, for the purposes of implementing the requirements outlined in Regulation



                                                                                        626
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Number 3, the Commission identified Regulation Number 3-specific definitions for
Disproportionately Impacted Communities, Cumulatively Impacted Communities, and
Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities that reference the Colorado EnviroScreen
tool. The Commission selected Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment’s (CDPHE’s) Colorado EnviroScreen tool to geographically identify
disproportionately impacted communities as it incorporates data from 35 different
indicators to assess environmental health burdens that communities experience, was
developed using methodologies that were developed by other states and recognized as
valid by a peer-reviewed study conducted by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, and underwent an extensive year-long stakeholder engagement process.
Additionally, during the 2023 legislative session, the General Assembly amended the
statutory definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community, consistent with the
recommendations of the Environmental Justice Action Task Force (EJATF), to clarify
that communities with a Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score above the 80th
percentile presumptively meet the definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community
in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(F), C.R.S. (2023). See Section 24-4-109(5)(a)(I), C.R.S.
(2023). The use of the Colorado EnviroScreen tool ensures Disproportionately Impacted
Communities are identified in a consistent, publicly accessible, data-driven, and
transparent manner.

Regulation Number 3 specific definitions for Disproportionately Impacted Communities,
Cumulatively Impacted Communities, and Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities
were adopted to clarify the applicability of the proposed enhanced requirements. For the
purposes of Regulation Number 3, Disproportionately Impacted Communities are those
census block groups identified in the Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC)
Regulation (Reg.) 3 Disproportionately Impacted Community layer of Colorado
EnviroScreen. This specific layer was created in Colorado EnviroScreen for purposes of
providing clear direction to regulated entities, local governments, the public, and
Division staff about which areas meet the definition of Disproportionately Impacted
Community established in this rule.

Consistent with Section 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B), C.R.S. (2023), for purposes of this
Regulation Number 3, the Commission determined that it was warranted to prioritize


                                                                                      627
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and target certain criteria of the definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community in
Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (2023), in order to appropriately tailor the regulatory
requirements to the categories of communities that will most benefit from those
requirements. Specifically, the Commission determined that it would prioritize and target
Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities that meet the demographic prongs of the
statutory definition in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D), C.R.S. (2023), and Cumulatively
Impacted Communities that meet the cumulative impacts prong of the statutory
definition in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(F), C.R.S. (2023). The Commission prioritized
and targeted the Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities that meet the
demographic prongs of the statutory definition because those demographic
characteristics are associated socioeconomic vulnerabilities that may result in potential
barriers for community members to meaningfully engage in the Division’s permitting
processes. As discussed further below, the Commission prioritized the Cumulatively
Impacted Communities that meet the cumulative impacts prong of the statutory
definition because the protections afforded by this rule will help reduce the
environmental health disparities faced by those communities due to a variety of
cumulative impacts.

Consistent with Section 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B), C.R.S. (2023), the Commission also
determined that it was not warranted to prioritize or target certain communities that met
other prongs of the statutory definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community in this
rulemaking for the following reasons. First, the Commission did not identify, target, or
prioritize any communities as disproportionately impacted under the history prong of the
statutory definition, Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(E), C.R.S. (2023), because no party to the
rulemaking presented evidence of historic discriminatory laws, policies, or practices, or
evidence of present day environmental health disparities.

Second, the Commission did not identify, target, or prioritize mobile home parks as
Disproportionately Impacted Communities for the purposes of this rulemaking under the
mobile home park prong of the statutory definition, Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(G), C.R.S.
(2023), because the Commission is not aware of any stationary sources of air pollution
that would require a permit that are located within a mobile home park, and this prong of
the definition is therefore irrelevant to the rulemaking. Third, the Commission did not


                                                                                          628
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

identify, target, or prioritize areas under the jurisdiction of the Southern Ute or Ute
Mountain Ute tribal government as Disproportionately Impacted Communities for the
purposes of this rulemaking under the tribal lands prong of the statutory definition,
Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(H), C.R.S. (2023), because the Commission’s permitting rules
do not apply to areas under tribal jurisdiction, and this prong of the definition is therefore
irrelevant to this rulemaking. Finally, the Commission did not identify, target, or prioritize
communities as disproportionately impacted under the cumulative impacts prong of the
statutory definition, Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(F), C.R.S. (2023), solely because they
met the federal definition of disadvantaged community from the Council on
Environmental Quality’s Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool. The
Commission acknowledges that such communities presumptively meet the cumulative
impacts prong of the definition pursuant to Section 24-4-109(5)(b), C.R.S. (2023).
However, that presumption is not warranted for the specific purposes of this rulemaking
because the purpose of the Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool is to identify
disadvantaged communities that will benefit from programs included in the federal
Justice40 initiative. It is intended to identify communities that should benefit from federal
investments in climate, clean energy, and related areas. The Council on Environmental
Quality’s instructions and memorandum regarding the use of the tool by federal
agencies is clear that it is intended solely for purposes of allocating federal funding.
Moreover, as discussed further below, Colorado EnviroScreen was specifically created
for purposes of identifying communities that experience cumulative impacts and the
Commission determined that it is more appropriate to use Colorado EnviroScreen for
prioritizing additional protections for these Cumulatively Impacted Communities in this
Regulation Number 3.

Though the proposed rules provide additional protections for all Disproportionately
Impacted Communities, more stringent requirements are being assessed under
Regulation Number 3 for those communities that experience the greatest cumulative
impacts and are, therefore, most in need of additional environmental protections.
Consistent with Section 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B), C.R.S. (2023), the Commission
determined that prioritizing additional protections for this subset of communities that
meet the definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community is warranted and


                                                                                           629
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

reasonably tailored to this rulemaking action for the reasons set forth below. These
communities that are disproportionately impacted by multiple environmental impacts
and stressors and experience the greatest environmental health burdens are identified
by the Commission as Cumulatively Impacted Communities, and defined as
communities with Colorado EnviroScreen scores above the 80th percentile. The 80th
percentile was informed by subject matter expert feedback, robust community input
through the EJATF process, and consultation of best practices established by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. It is also consistent with the presumption established
in Section 24-4-109(5)(a)(I), C.R.S. (2023), that the 80th percentile in Colorado
EnviroScreen may be used to identify census block groups that meet the cumulative
impacts prong of the definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community in Section 24-
4-109(2)(b)(II)(F), C.R.S. (2023). The Commission therefore identifies
Disproportionately Impacted Communities with a Colorado EnviroScreen score above
the 80th percentile as meeting the cumulative impacts prong of the statutory definition of
disproportionately impacted community in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(F): “a community
identified by a state agency as being one where multiple factors, including
socioeconomic stressors, vulnerable populations, disproportionate environmental
burdens, vulnerability to environmental degradation, and lack of public participation,
may act cumulatively to affect health and the environment and contribute to persistent
disparities.” Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(F), C.R.S.

The Colorado EnviroScreen version available on the date this rule takes effect, which is
Version 1.0, will be used to identify a source’s geographical identification in relation to
Disproportionately Impacted Communities. CDPHE will maintain historic versions of
Colorado EnviroScreen and the data used to determine Colorado EnviroScreen scores,
as the tool will be updated on a biennial basis.

The Commission recognizes dividing Disproportionately Impacted Communities into two
categories can raise concerns that the impacts some communities experience are
viewed as less important. By identifying Cumulatively Impacted Communities, it is not
the Commission’s intent to communicate that other burdens are less critical. Rather, the
Commission intends to prioritize environmental protections in the communities where
they can have the greatest positive impact. With this rule, the Commission is using


                                                                                          630
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

readily-available data to assess where the greatest cumulative environmental impacts
are being experienced and assessing more stringent environmental protections in those
communities.

Further, the Commission uses the term “Disproportionately Impacted Community”
throughout the proposed regulatory language. The Commission acknowledges that this
term raises concerns, as it defines communities by their deficiencies rather than their
strengths. Per the recommendations of the EJATF, this term will be used until more
input from community members can be gathered to find language that the majority
agrees appropriately defines communities that experience cumulative impacts. The
Commission notes that it adopted a definition of Disproportionately Impacted
Community in this rulemaking based on the legislative changes to the definition in
Section 24-4-109, C.R.S. (2023) that the General Assembly adopted shortly before this
rulemaking. However, all parties were on notice that such legislative changes were a
possibility throughout the pendency of this rulemaking process because the possibility
of such a legislative change was noted in the rulemaking notice and earlier drafts of this
Statement of Basis and Purpose and the notice for this rulemaking. Additionally, the
prior statutory text in Section 24-4-109(2)(a)(I), C.R.S. (2021), clearly stated that the
EJATF was directed to recommend changes to the definition of Disproportionately
Impacted Community in Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S. (2021), and that as such the
definition only applied until the General Assembly acted by bill to modify the definition.
Moreover, the EJATF recommendations to change the definition were well known to the
public and were attached as an exhibit to the Division’s prehearing statement.

In its definition of “Affected Construction Sources” and throughout the proposed
regulatory language, the Commission uses the term “requested permitted emissions” to
refer to the total potential emissions with the consideration of emissions controls. The
Commission uses the term “estimated annual actual emissions” to refer to the emission
rates of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene reported on Air Pollutant Notices.
The Commission used “requested permitted emissions” to refer to emissions of criteria
pollutants. These separate terms were used because permits typically do not establish
maximum emission rates for HAPs. When considering whether a source is an Affected
Construction Source, only emissions from the project for which the permit application is


                                                                                            631
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

submitted will be compared to the Affected Construction Source thresholds. Further,
enhanced requirements are triggered on a per pollutant basis, meaning only for the
pollutant(s) exceeding Affected Construction Source thresholds.

Permitting Revisions (Part B, Section III and Part C, Section V)

To facilitate the consideration of undue environmental burdens experienced by
Disproportionately Impacted Communities in Colorado, the Commission revised
Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.C. to require all sources of affected pollutants
to include an environmental justice summary with construction and operating permit
applications. The environmental justice summary will serve as a notification to both
sources themselves and to Division staff during permit review that enhanced permitting
requirements may be required. The purpose of the environmental justice summary is to
present community-specific information regarding environmental and demographic
indicators to be evaluated and considered during the permit review process when
determining enhanced monitoring and/or modeling requirements. Along with the
environmental justice summary, owners or operators must also provide documentation
of occupied areas within one mile of the proposed source, such as an aerial or satellite
mapped image.

The environmental justice summary will compile readily-accessible information
integrated into the Colorado EnviroScreen tool by using a printable report application
which will be incorporated into Colorado EnviroScreen by the effective date of the rule.
The Colorado EnviroScreen version available at the time of the rulemaking did not allow
users to generate reports for the census block group where a facility is located and for
all census block groups within a certain radius around a facility/location. As such, the
Commission is establishing a requirement for sources that are located in more than one
census block group to submit an environmental justice summary for each census block
group within which they are operating. The Division will be providing a forthcoming
guidance document to facilitate sources in identifying whether a proposed project is
located in a Disproportionately Impacted Community, and to provide guidance on using
the Colorado EnviroScreen tool to create environmental justice summaries.




                                                                                       632
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.B. must be completed by
an owner or operator of a facility prior to submission of permit applications to prevent
any potential permitting delays and to proactively engage those communities early in
the permitting process. Completing the requirements of Regulation Number 3, Part B,
Section III.B. as part of the planning process for the construction of the facility will also
ensure timely engagement with members of the disproportionately impacted community,
and may minimize requests and/or petitions for a public hearing. Sources are
encouraged to engage with communities throughout the permitting process to ensure
that public concerns are understood and considered, and to provide feedback to both
communities and the Division on how public input influenced the proposed project.
Community engagement may include holding listening sessions to better understand
the concerns of community members, distributing information on the proposed project in
plain-language in nearby communities, working with community groups to distribute
relevant information, and/or promoting and providing multiple methods for community
members to provide input. Potential community groups that applicants should consider
contacting include, but are not limited to: neighborhood organizations, schools, clinics,
social and activity clubs, libraries, civic associations, businesses, nonprofits, faith-based
and secular organizations, and local government(s). And while sources are encouraged
to engage in the efforts outlined in Section III.C.5.d. to promote fair treatment and
meaningful involvement of disproportionately impacted community members and to
provide the Division with documentation of any such efforts undertaken by the source,
at this time these components are not substantive application requirements.

The Commission revised Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D. to require new and
modified sources of affected pollutants in cumulatively impacted communities to
implement Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) to limit the impacts of new
or modified emission sources of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides
(NOx), or fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in disproportionately impacted communities.
Concerning modifications, owners or operators must assess whether the modified
emission sources will result in an overall increase in a facility’s requested permitted
emissions in an amount over the construction permit thresholds in Part B, Sections
II.D.2. or II.D.3. of Regulation Number 3. However, the analysis and potential application


                                                                                           633
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

of RACT is specific to the new or modified emission unit(s) for which the construction
permit is submitted. Though the Commission does not currently have the authority to
require a RACT analysis for hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), including benzene,
toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX) it encourages consideration of HAPs,
including BTEX, emissions when assessing RACT for VOCs. The Commission further
directs the Division to revisit the thresholds in Table 1 of Section III.J. and the list of
HAPs identified as Affected Pollutants, in future rulemaking proceedings under Section
24-4-114.4(5)(a)(IV).

It is the Commission’s expectation that sources in cumulatively impacted community’s
self-identify controls that would be used for the emission source that is subject to the
assessment and demonstrate why it would or would not be technologically feasible to
utilize. The Commission recognizes that given the heightened need to mitigate the
disparate burden being experienced in disproportionately impacted communities, HB
21-1266 recognizes that the key to addressing these historic wrongs is to rapidly reduce
pollution in disproportionately impacted communities.

The Commission sees the expansion of RACT requirements as being in line with the
statutory directive of HB 21-1266 to ensure that all Colorado communities have equal
access to clean air and are not forced to bear disparate environmental health impacts
and within the authority of the Commission to adopt emission control regulations
pursuant to Section 25-7-106(1)(c), C.R.S.

Following the adoption of HB 21-1266, the Division adopted a number of administrative
changes under the existing regulatory language to enhance how it evaluates the
impacts of new and modified sources on ambient air concentrations to ensure that such
sources do not cause or contribute to violations of National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS) and Colorado Ambient Air Quality Standards. These changes are
reflected in the proposed updates to the Colorado Minor Source Modeling Guideline for
Air Quality Permits (April 2023). In addition to these administrative changes, HB 21-
1266 provides the Commission with the authority to establish further enhanced
modeling requirements for new and modified sources in disproportionately impacted
communities to better understand and address unique air quality challenges facing



                                                                                              634
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

these communities resulting from the emissions of affected pollutants identified by HB
21-1266. As such, the Division has established more protective modeling thresholds
which are reflected in the April 2023 proposed updates to the Colorado Minor Source
Modeling Guideline for Air Quality Permits for sources of affected pollutants in
Disproportionately Impacted Communities. Additionally, the Commission has adopted
rules establishing requirements for sources to conduct modeling of BTEX in
cumulatively impacted communities. Together, these enhanced modeling requirements
will provide additional protections to Disproportionately Impacted Communities, provide
information on impacts experienced in communities, and allow for the appropriate
application of enhanced monitoring through projecting the quantity and location of
maximum annual average modeled concentrations.

In response to HB 21-1266, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3,
Part B, Section III.J. to provide for enhanced monitoring requirements for sources
located in Disproportionately Impacted Communities. Enhanced monitoring will provide
quality data in a transparent and consistent manner that informs residents on pollution
levels in their communities. These data will also provide Division staff with information to
guide future planning efforts. The revisions were informed by community members
during the outreach and engagement meetings for this rule who, expressed a strong
desire for additional monitoring of the air they were exposed to and for further
educational opportunities pertaining to the use and understanding of air quality
monitoring data. Educational resources and easily accessible data assists community
members in understanding their health risk factors and helps make informed decisions
about behavioral responses to air quality concerns in their community.

To help ensure that quality data is meaningful and readily understandable, the
Commission directs the Division to develop a standardized process for reviewing data
and determining its validity, and communicating valid data to community members. In
such communication, the Division should include a lay person explanation of the data in
the languages represented by the community. In addition, the Division should consider
allowing any facility located in the Disproportionately Impacted Community an
opportunity to provide information that will be made available to community members in
the same place as the monitoring data.


                                                                                        635
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Enhanced monitoring requirements for sources located in Cumulatively Impacted
Communities includes the requirement that sources design and operate Division-
approved source-specific monitoring plans. The appropriate monitoring requirements
will be determined with the consideration of several factors including: the requested
permitted emissions of affected pollutant(s), attainment status of community (for criteria
pollutants), characteristics of community environmental indicators, operating
characteristics of the facility subject to enhanced monitoring requirements, division-
approved air monitoring data that meet data standardization requirements, the reliability
and accuracy of potential monitoring techniques, cost of monitoring techniques,
emission estimates, dispersion characteristics, density of existing monitoring, proximity
to occupied areas, and location in a disproportionately impacted community.

The Commission recognizes that well production facilities are already subject to pre-
production monitoring requirements in Regulation Number 7 for at least six months. The
Commission considers the expansion of pre-production monitoring beyond the currently
specified time frame to be enhanced monitoring. The Commission also recognizes that
technologies being used to monitor oil and gas operations are evolving and wants to
encourage innovation. Therefore, the Commission is allowing operators of applicable
well production facilities to meet the rule’s enhanced monitoring requirements through
alternative, Division-approved monitoring methodologies.

For sources located in Socioeconomically Vulnerable Communities, enhanced
monitoring includes a requirement for sources to participate in a community monitoring
and education program. Participation in a community monitoring and education program
includes paying a fee, assessed on a per pollutant basis, to be paid at the time of permit
issuance. The Division will reassess the costs associated with community monitoring
fees every three years, with consideration of the number of affected sources required to
pay into the community monitoring fund and changes in monitoring technology and
costs. The Commission recognizes that in addition to changes in available monitoring
technology, there may be changes in community needs. As such, the Commission
requests the Division be responsive to these changes as they arise in the future by
continuing to consider the following to ensure the continued efficacy of community
monitoring efforts: the selection and placement of community monitors to ensure


                                                                                         636
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

monitors continue providing reliable and meaningful data, potential opportunities for
improving the accessibility and transparency of collected monitoring data, and methods
for providing community education to allow for public engagement with, and
understanding of, monitoring data. As implemented, this approach allows enhanced
monitoring requirements to be tailored to the needs of specific communities by
establishing funding for the operation of community monitors and providing associated
educational outreach in all disproportionately impacted communities, while
implementing more stringent, source-specific monitoring requirements in communities
experiencing the greatest cumulative impacts. Throughout the outreach process, the
Division received feedback that different communities have different needs, and this
approach is responsive to that feedback.

HB 21-1266 allows the Commission to also consider requiring enhanced monitoring for
existing sources of affected pollutants located in disproportionately impacted
communities (Section 25-7-114.5(12.5)(a)(I)(E), C.R.S.). Throughout the outreach
process, community members expressed strong support for existing sources to be
subject to enhanced monitoring requirements. In response to this feedback, revisions to
Regulation Number 3, Part C, Section V.C. were adopted to allow for enhanced
monitoring requirements to be included during operating permit renewal for sources of
affected pollutants located in disproportionately impacted communities.

All enhanced monitoring required of sources in disproportionately impacted
communities will be identified in the permit and will be enforceable as a permit term, and
all data collected through enhanced monitoring efforts will be submitted to the Division
in accordance with Division data standards. Compliance with the enhanced monitoring
requirements does not relieve a source of compliance with monitoring requirements
pursuant to other state or federal law.

As part of the screening process for assessing when source-specific monitoring would
be appropriate and meaningful, the Commission adopted Cumulatively Impacted
Community Monitoring Thresholds. These thresholds are used as screening metrics
against which the modeled impact of a source is compared to determine if the level of
pollution generated by that source is expected to have an impact on a cumulatively



                                                                                        637
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

impacted community's air quality that necessitates the implementation of source-specific
monitoring. These thresholds were identified with consideration of U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency established National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and
Health Guideline Values (HGVs) aggregated by CDPHE following the review of health-
based levels established by Federal and State agencies. The Commission recognizes
that unlike NAAQS which are established to provide public health protection, HGVs are
screening thresholds which are used to identify when additional investigation is
necessary.

Further, the Commission notes that significant efforts are being undertaken pursuant to
House Bill 22-1244 to identify and determine Health Based Standards for toxic air
contaminants and the completion of this work may necessitate reconsidering the use of
HGVs as a basis for establishing the Cumulatively Impacted Community Monitoring
Thresholds. The Commission directs the Division to consider priority toxic air
contaminants and associated health based standards identified by HB 22-1244 when
revisiting the enhanced permitting requirements set forth by Regulation Number 3.

If a project’s emissions exceed the Cumulatively Impacted Community Monitoring
Thresholds, the facility’s owner or operator must submit a source-specific monitoring
plan to the Division. To allow time for the Division to review and approve monitoring
plans, sources are required to implement a source-specific monitoring plan must submit
the plan to the Division at least sixty days prior to beginning operations. Source-specific
monitoring plans must detail how project operations will impact concentrations of
affected pollutants beyond the property boundary of the proposed project. Source-
specific monitoring plans must detail how source impacts will be profiled during periods
of routine operations and during periods of non-routine operations (start up, shut down,
and malfunction) to ensure all periods of source operations are considered in the
selection of appropriate monitoring technology. The Division uses “beyond the property
boundary” to mean locations that are outside of the immediate vicinity of the proposed
project or facility’s fenceline, and includes locations such as neighboring communities,
nearby residences, and/or sensitive receptor facilities.




                                                                                        638
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission recognizes that the impacts of a source may be sufficiently understood
after a period of monitoring, and that the continued operation of the source-specific
monitoring may no longer have utility. As such, the Commission adopted rules that allow
sources to petition to the Division to discontinue source-specific monitoring if certain
criteria are met, including documentation that the completed source-specific monitoring
has sufficiently profiled the source’s impact on the DI Community in which the source is
located, evidence that there is sufficient community monitoring occurring in the DI
Community in which the sources is located to inform residents of air pollution impacts,
demonstrated history of compliance with all permit terms and applicable regulations,
relevant National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and Health Guideline Values
(HGVs), and an established plan for monitoring and communicating impacts during
periods of planned start-up, shut-down, or maintenance.

The Commission recognizes the Division may adopt changes to General Permits to
reflect enhanced permitting requirements in Disproportionately Impacted Communities,
and considers the enhanced permitting requirements to be compatible with the general
permit process.

The Commission further recognizes that, when determining enhanced permitting
requirements for sources, the Division should consider the remaining useful life of a
source, if the source has a deadline to close under state or federal law or regulations.

The Commission directs the Division to develop a monitoring guideline in collaboration
with subject matter experts, Division staff, and stakeholders, to identify appropriate
monitoring technologies and/or strategies, and to facilitate the development and
implementation of source-specific monitoring plans. The subject matter expert panel will
be comprised of representatives with expertise in air quality monitoring from various
industries, environmental organizations, members of Disproportionately Impacted
Communities, and academia. The monitoring guideline development process will be
open to the public, and conducted in a transparent manner by providing opportunities
for public comment during each meeting. A public comment form will also be made
available in both English and Spanish for the duration of the monitoring guideline
development process.



                                                                                           639
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The monitoring guideline will focus on documenting criteria for the design and operation
of an approvable source-specific monitoring plan, detailing how the Division will
evaluate best available monitoring technology that is reasonably available, and
providing a framework for assessing requests to discontinue source-specific monitoring.
Additionally, the monitoring guideline will specify data quality assurance protocols, data
standardization requirements, and requirements pertaining to reporting frequency.
Importantly, while there is currently no data standard for non-regulatory monitoring, the
Division intends to create a standard for the data collected as a result of proposed
enhanced monitoring requirements. Standardizing monitoring data requirements, along
with efforts the Division is undertaking as a result of a 2021/2022 Legislative Decision
Item to improve the structure of the Division’s available data and make that data easier
to collate, extract, and understand, will create a structure for making data publicly
available and accessible.

Using a guideline approach would allow the Division to provide greater detail and
specificity than a regulatory framework, use plain language to facilitate accessibility and
understanding of the Division’s expectations for monitoring to prevent unnecessary
delays in the permit process, and allow for adjustments to monitoring determinations to
account for changes to community needs and/or updates to monitoring technology. The
Division anticipates that the monitoring guideline development process will require
extensive deliberation amongst subject matter experts, and will also require and rely on
continued meaningful public engagement. The applicability dates of July 2024 for the
proposed enhanced monitoring requirements allows the time needed for this robust and
collaborative monitoring guideline development process to take place.

Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable)

In accordance with Sections 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), C.R.S., the Commission
states the rules adopted in this rulemaking are state-only requirements, are not intended
as additions or revisions to Colorado’s State Implementation Plan (SIP), and do not
exceed or differ from the requirements of the federal act or rules. Therefore, Section 25-
7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings pursuant to C.R.S. Section 25-7-110.8


                                                                                        640
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

To the extent that Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking,
and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes
the determination that:

         •    The rule is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
              scientific methodologies.

         •    The rule shall result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution (unless the
              rule is administrative in nature).

         •    The rule is the most cost effective alternative, or provides an analysis
              detailing why the alternative is unacceptable.

         •    The rule maximizes air quality benefits in the most cost effective manner.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting
errors found within the regulation.

I.III.   Adopted: February 16, 2024
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Sections II. and VI.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg.
§1001-1.

Basis

The proposed revisions to Regulation Number 3 revise fee requirements to include
greenhouse gas emission fees.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the
Commission the maximum flexibility in establishing an air quality control program and
authority to promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-105(1) directs the Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are
consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and are necessary for


                                                                                         641
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

the proper implementation and administration of Article 7. § 25-7-114.1 authorizes the
air pollutant emission notice program. § 25-7-114.7 authorizes the collection of
greenhouse gas emission fees sufficient to cover the indirect and direct costs required
to develop and administer the programs pertaining to emissions of greenhouse gas.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3, and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Greenhouse Gas APENs

In 2021, the Colorado legislature revised in House Bill 21-1266 Section 25-7-114.1,
C.R.S. to direct the Commission to include GHGs (carbon dioxide (CO2), methane
(CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs),
sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3)) in the list of air pollutants
required to be reported in an APEN in a rulemaking no later than December 31, 2022
(see HB 21-1266). In December 2022, the Commission identified sources reporting
GHGs under Regulation Number 22 or Regulation Number 7 with facility emissions
greater than or equal to 25,000 tpy CO2e to include GHG emissions on an annual
facility-wide greenhouse gas APEN. The first GHG APENs must be submitted by
December 31, 2023, reporting 2022 emissions data.

The Colorado legislature also revised CRS § 25-7-114.7 to direct the Commission to
establish fees on greenhouse gas emissions reported on the above described and
adopted APEN sufficient to cover the costs required to develop and administer the
programs pertaining to GHG emissions. In 2023, the Colorado legislature further revised
CRS § 25-7-114.7 to allow the Commission to adopt a rule to establish fees on
greenhouse gas emissions reported on the APEN or reported to the Division pursuant to
CRS § 25-7-140(2)(a)(I) (see SB 23-016).

Therefore, the Commission revised Regulation Number 3 to establish the following
greenhouse gas emission fee structure. These fees will be first assessed in 2024 for
2023 reported emissions, collecting approximately $6.54 million dollars. However, in



                                                                                           642
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

recognition of necessary company budget planning, the first of fees in 2024 will collect
60 percent of the direct and indirect program costs, approximately $3.9 million dollars.

Subject fee payers include facilities reporting greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to
Regulation Number 22 with facility emissions equal to or greater than 25,000 metric tpy;
facilities reporting greenhouse gas emissions company-wide emissions equal to or
greater than 25,000 metric tpy on the Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. annual
emissions report; or facilities reporting greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to
Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section IV. and on the GHG APEN. The annual
greenhouse gas fee is determined by calculating the facility or company’s proportional
greenhouse gas emissions, individualizing the facility or company’s estimated dollar per
ton, and multiplying the dollar per ton by the 4,000 ton value in section 25-7-
114.7(a)(2)(II), C.R.S.

The Commission directs the Division, no later than September 30th of each year,
starting in calendar year 2024, to publish, at a minimum, an estimate of total billable
CO2e emissions that were emitted during the preceding calendar year as reported by
companies pursuant to Regulation Number 22.

The Commission directs the Division to annually evaluate the Division’s direct and
indirect GHG program costs and request a rulemaking hearing to adjust the costs if
program costs are determined during that assessment to be higher, lower, or
alternatively funded.

The Commission requests the Division, in consultation with emission sources and other
stakeholders, assess the method and structure for the fee program and make
recommendations to: i) improve the fairness and sustainability of the program, ii)
evaluate the need to modify the universe of fee payers, iii) address the impact of
impending closures of coal and gas power plants on current fee payors, iv) reduce costs
through efficiencies and alternative funding sources, and v) identify adopt needed
legislative and regulatory changes and Commission rulemakings. In particular the
Commission has concerns about rising dollar per ton fees on sources that are reducing
their own greenhouse gas emissions and the Commission believes legislative changes
may be needed to address this and other issues. The Commission requests the Division


                                                                                          643
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

report to the Commission on its assessment and recommendations no later than
October 31, 2025 and as part of its annual review thereafter.

The Commission heard conflicting testimony regarding what the appropriate emission
fees should be for each fee payor, with some parties advocating for a flat fee per ton
structure while the Division and other parties advocated for a proportional fee structure
that would result in fee payors with greater greenhouse gas emissions paying a larger
share of the total annual budget. One issue is whether the 4000 ton limit for calculating
emission fees for regulated pollutants found in section 25-7-114.7(a)(2)(II), C.R.S.
applies to limit the fees for greenhouse gas emissions that any single source or fee
payor must pay. After considering the testimony and evidence presented by the parties
and the Division, the Commission determined, as a policy matter, to take the more
balanced and equitable approach by establishing annual greenhouse gas fees on a
proportional basis. The Commission, however, also incorporated the 4000 ton limit in
the calculation for determining proportional fees. By adopting this calculation the
Commission acknowledges that there is uncertainty and concern from parties around
whether and how to apply the 4000 ton limit to greenhouse gas emission fees, and the
Commission encourages the General Assembly to speak more clearly to these issues
as sufficient funding of Air Pollution Control Division programs will be an ongoing
concern.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Part A concerning greenhouse gas emission fees do not exceed or
differ from the requirements of the federal act or rules. Therefore, the requirements of §
25-7-110.5(5)(a) do not apply. Further the revisions to Part A concerning greenhouse
gas emission fees are not intended to reduce air pollution; therefore, the requirements
of § 25-7-110.8 do not apply.

Revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors.

I.JJJ. Adopted: May 16, 2024
Revisions to Regulation Number 3: Part A, Sections I.B., II.D., V.D., V.H., and V.F.; Part
B, Sections III.B. and III.J.; and Part C, Sections III.C., III.D., V.C., and VII.



                                                                                         644
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In May 2023, the Commission adopted several new provisions to Regulation Number 3,
including establishing requirements for environmental justice summaries to be
submitted along with permit applications. The purpose of the environmental justice
summaries is to present community-specific information regarding environmental and
demographic indicators to be evaluated and considered during the permit review
process. Additionally, the Commission adopted provisions that provide for source-
specific monitoring requirements for sources located in Disproportionately Impacted
Communities. Included in the enhanced monitoring provisions is the establishment of a
Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring program; funded by fees paid by
certain sources in Disproportionately Impacted Communities who are not subject to the
source-specific monitoring requirements of Part B, Section III.J. The Commission
established that the fees used to administer the Disproportionately Impacted
Community Monitoring program be collected and administered by the Air Quality
Enterprise.

In August 2023, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) removed 40 CFR
70.6(g) and 71.6(g) regarding emergency affirmative defense provisions for Title V
Operating Permits. 88 Fed. Reg. 47029 (Aug. 21, 2023). EPA’s rule revision requires
states to make conforming revisions to their EPA-approved Title V operating permit
programs and submit such revisions to EPA by August 21, 2024.

The proposed revisions to Regulation Number 3 revise the environmental justice
summary requirements in the construction permit and operating permit application
programs; change the administrator for the Disproportionately Impacted Community
Monitoring program fees; clarify requirements for Disproportionately Impacted
Community monitoring requirements in the operating permit program; remove the


                                                                                       645
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

emergency affirmative defense provisions from the operating permit program; and make
typographical cross-reference corrections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7- 105(1) directs the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the
legislative declaration set forth in § 25-7-102 and are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of Article 7. § 25-7-114.2, C.R.S. authorizes the
construction permitting program. §§ 25-7-114.1 and 25-7-114.7 authorize annual
emission fees, air pollutant emission notice filing fees, and permit application processing
fees. § 25-7-105(12), C.R.S. authorizes the Commission to promulgate regulations
necessary to implement the provisions of the emission notice, construction permit, and
Title V programs. § 25-7-106, C.R.S. provides the Commission the maximum flexibility
in establishing an air quality control program and authorizes the Commission to
promulgate regulations as necessary or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-
106(6), C.R.S. further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of
any air pollution source to monitor, record, and report information. § 25-7-114.4(5),
C.R.S. authorizes the Commission to promulgate enhanced modeling and monitoring
requirements for new or modified sources of affected pollutants in disproportionately
impacted communities, and to identify those disproportionately impacted communities.
Further, § 25-7-106(1)(c), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to promulgate “[e]mission
control regulations that are applicable to the entire state, that are applicable only within
specified areas or zones of the state, or that are applicable only when a specified class
of pollution is present.”

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3.

Revisions to Environmental Justice Summary Requirements (Part B, Section III.B.5. and
Part C, Sections III.C. and III.D.)




                                                                                         646
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted revisions to the environmental justice summary provisions
required for construction permit and operating permit applications. The Commission
revised the provisions to clarify that the environmental justice summaries are required to
be submitted and verified by the Division prior to the submission of the associated
permit application by a source. The Commission included information about what
constitutes when a summary is verified. The Commission further revised the
requirements for what must be included in the environmental justice summaries and
made minor clarifications to the requirements. In Part B, Section III.B.5.a., the
conditions no longer require an estimation of the Affected Pollutants emitted from the
source, but rather, just an identification of the Affected Pollutants. The emission
estimates will be included in the associated permit applications, and are not needed in
the environmental justice summaries. In Part B, Section III.B.5.b., the conditions were
revised to require that a 1-mile radius be shown around the source in the aerial or
satellite image. This will more clearly show the source’s proximity to other occupied
areas and communities in order to better understand who is immediately impacted by
the source’s emissions. In Part B, Section III.B.5.c., the Commission removed the
requirement that the data from the Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of
Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated into this regulation be reported for only sources
located in Disproportionately Impacted Communities, instead making it a requirement
for all sources who submit an environmental justice summary. In Part B, Section
III.B.5.d., the Commission made several changes to the sentence structure and terms
used in order to make the provisions clearer; the Commission removed the provision
requiring applicants to provide addition information about the summary if requested by
the Division after the summary has already been verified and submitted with a permit
application; and the Commission removed the provision that emissions reduction
strategies only considered be included in the summary. These changes provide
additional clarification regarding community engagement and provide greater certainty
about what is required for a complete and verifiable environmental justice summary.

Additionally, the Commission adopted several new exemptions to the environmental
justice summary requirements in both the construction permit application and operating
permit application sections (Parts B and C, respectively). These provisions exempt the


                                                                                        647
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

need for permit applicants to submit environmental justice summaries with permit
applications for certain permitting actions. For construction permit applications, the first
exemption applies to sources submitting applications for administrative permit
amendments only, as described in Section I.B.1.a. of Part A. Because these specific
permit amendments address only administrative elements of permits, environmental
justice summaries are not necessary for the applications.

The second exemption for construction permit applications applies to sources
submitting environmental justice summaries if the associated permit application
requests an overall decrease in emissions limits or there is no change in the requested
emissions limits of an Affected Pollutant. If there is a facility-wide overall increase in the
annual emissions limit(s) of any individual Affected Pollutant, and the source does not
otherwise qualify for another exemption, a Division-verified environmental justice
summary must be submitted along with the permit application. The purpose of this
exemption is to limit administrative burden on affected sources and the Division by
focusing on sources whose increasing emissions are adding to the pollutants of the
ambient air in the communities they reside near and to incentivize emissions reductions
by reducing administrative tasks for permit applications that decrease emissions.

The third exemption for construction permit applications applies to sources submitting
environmental justice summaries with permit applications if they have already submitted
an environmental justice summary using data from the most current version of the
Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated
into this regulation, which provides the information about the community that the facility
resides in. Because the most current information about the community will have already
been provided in the previous environmental justice summary, there would be no
changes to the summary based on subsequent permit applications. The sources will,
however, need to submit updated summaries whenever there is a new permit
modification that increases emissions of Affected Pollutants from the source and a new
version of the Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of Colorado EnviroScreen
incorporated into this regulation with updated data has been released in between permit
applications.



                                                                                           648
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

For operating permit applications, the first exemption applies to sources submitting
applications for administrative permit amendments only.

The second exemption for operating permit applications applies to sources submitting
environmental justice summaries if the associated permit application requests an overall
decrease in emissions limits or there is no change in the requested emissions limits of
an Affected Pollutant. If there is a facility-wide overall increase in the annual emissions
limit(s) of any individual Affected Pollutant, and the source does not otherwise qualify for
another exemption, a Division-verified environmental justice summary must be
submitted along with a permit application.

The third exemption for operating permit applications applies to sources submitting
environmental justice summaries with permit applications if they have already submitted
an environmental justice summary using data from the most current version of the
Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated
into this regulation. For this exemption, sources are allowed to apply an environmental
justice summary from a previously-submitted construction permit application as long as
the environmental justice summary submitted for the construction permit application
used the most current version of the Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of
Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated into this regulation and the provisions of the
construction permit are being incorporated into the operating permit. If the
Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated
into this regulation has been updated since when the construction permit application
was submitted, the source must submit a new Division-verified environmental justice
summary along with the operating permit application.

The Commission adopted these exemptions to reduce unnecessary burden on affected
sources for preparing the summaries, and on the Division for reviewing the summaries,
in cases where the information in the Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of
Colorado EnviroScreen about the Disproportionately Impacted Community where a
facility is located has not changed between permit applications. The Commission
intends for the Division to focus on obtaining environmental justice summaries for




                                                                                         649
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

sources who are increasing emissions limits and for which the Division does not have
the most up-to-date environmental justice information.

Additionally, the Commission adopted a new provision for the environmental justice
summaries that includes deadlines for when the Division must review and respond to
sources regarding submitted summaries and deadlines for sources who submitted
summaries to respond to Division requests for information. The Division has fourteen
(14) days to provide an initial notification to the source that the summary is complete or
incomplete, and if incomplete, what requirements are missing. The Division also has the
option of invoking a 14-day extension to the initial review period, if the Division receives
an unexpected number of environmental justice summaries that prevent review; or
additional time is needed to request and receive additional information from the
application or to review the content of the summaries due to extenuating circumstances
such as staff turnover or changes in regulatory requirements.

If the Division fails to timely notify an applicant that the summary is incomplete, the
source is allowed to submit the unverified summary with the permit application. The
summary may be submitted with the permit application, but may not be used in the
future for consideration of the exemptions in Part B, Section III.B.5.e.(iii) and Part C,
Section III.C.14.a.(ii) for any future applications, unless subsequently verified by the
Division. In that case, the permit applicant must state in their permit application that the
submitted summary is unverified due to the Division not meeting the response deadline.

Finally, in cases where the term “Colorado EnviroScreen was used”, the Commission
changed the language to “the Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer of
Colorado EnviroScreen incorporated into this regulation”. This change was made to
provide greater clarification about how data from the Colorado EnviroScreen platform is
used. Referring to the data source just as Colorado EnviroScreen may be misleading,
as it encompasses the entirety of the Colorado EnviroScreen platform, as opposed to
just the layer of Colorado EnviroScreen-produced data that is used to inform the
definition of Disproportionately Impacted Community and requirements in the
environmental justice summary provisions.




                                                                                            650
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Revisions to Disproportionately Impact Community Monitoring Fees (Part B, Section
III.J.3.)

The Commission adopted revisions to the Disproportionately Impacted Community
Monitoring program that transfer the administration of the Disproportionately Impacted
Community Monitoring fees from the Air Quality Enterprise to the Division through the
Stationary Source Control Fund. The Commission understands that the funds collected
for the Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring Program will be more
effectively collected through the Stationary Source Control Fund and administered via
Division-operated programs. The Division will be able to actively assess where funding
is needed, through continuous data collection and consideration for how the Monitoring
Program is impacting Disproportionately Impacted Communities. Additionally, this will
help the Division offer more tailored support to sources subject to the Disproportionately
Impacted Community Monitoring Program requirements. The fees are considered
processing fees for purposes of collection by the Division.

In order for the Division to have enough time to build-out and test the new invoicing and
inventory systems required to collect and administer the Disproportionately Impacted
Community Monitoring fees, the Commission adopted a delay to the start date of the fee
collection requirements. Previously, the fees were set to begin being collected based on
permit applications submitted on or after July 15, 2024, along with the rest of the
provisions in Part B, Section III.J. With the revisions, the fee provisions in Part B,
Section III.J.3. take effect based on permit application submitted on or after October 15,
2024.

Revisions to Source-specific Disproportionately Impacted Community Monitoring
Requirements (Part C, Section V.C.5.d.(i))

The Commission adopted revisions to the Disproportionately Impacted Community
source-specific monitoring requirements for major sources submitting operating permit
renewal applications. The requirements apply to sources who, since their last operating
permit renewal, have submitted operating permit modification applications, or permits
have been issued, that include an increase in requested permitted emissions or
permitted emissions of an Affected Pollutant (excluding volatile organic compounds),


                                                                                         651
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

and the increase is above the Affected Construction Source thresholds defined in Part
A, Section I.B.4. For the purposes of this provision, the rule language uses the term
“requested permitted emissions” to refer to the emissions limits that are requested in a
permit application, and the rule language uses the term “permitted emissions” to refer to
the emission limits included in issued permits. In the May 2023 Statement of Basis and
Purpose for this provision, the Commission clarified that the term “requested permitted
emissions” refers to the total potential emissions with the consideration of emissions
controls. For the adopted revisions in this version of the provision, the Commission
intends for that to remain true for both “requested permitted emissions” and “permitted
emissions”. The revisions add clarifications to the operating permit renewal applications
that prompt the need for sources located in Cumulatively Impacted Communities to
design and submit source-specific monitoring plans, per Part B, Section III.J.

The Commission also added a provision that clarifies, for the purposes of the source-
specific monitoring plan emissions triggers, that sources should only review operating
permit renewal applications back to July 15, 2023, as that is when the monitoring plan
requirements were adopted into this regulation. Finally, the Commission adopted
additional language that clarifies that sources already operating Division-approved
source-specific monitoring for the Affected Pollutant(s) are not required to conduct
additional monitoring under V.C.5.d.(i) and that source-specific monitoring will not be
required for total volatile organic compounds, as stated in Part B, Section III.J.2.a.

Repeal of Emergency Affirmative Defense Provisions (Part C, Section VII.)

The Commission repealed Part C, Section VII, regarding emergency affirmative defense
provisions for Title V operating permits. On August 21, 2023, EPA removed 40 CFR
70.6(g) and 71.6(g) regarding emergency affirmative defense provisions for Title V
operating permits. The removal of these provisions prevents sources from asserting an
affirmative defense during enforcement actions against the source for exceedances of a
technology-based emissions limitation in an operating permit in cases where the
emissions exceedances are a result of a qualifying emergency event. EPA’s rule
revision required states to make conforming revisions to their EPA-approved part 70
Title V operating permit programs. The repeal of the operating permit program



                                                                                          652
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

emergency provisions complies and maintains consistency with EPA’s removal of 40
CFR 70.6(g) and 71.6(g).

Further, the adopted revisions address typographical cross-reference errors found
within the regulation.

I.KKK.        Adopted: April 18, 2025
Revisions to Regulation Number 3: Part A, Sections VI.D and IX.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5., C.R.S.,
and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo.
Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

In 2022, the General Assembly adopted House Bill (HB) 22-1244 (Public Protections
from Toxic Air Contaminants), now codified primarily in § 25-7-109.5, C.R.S. Section 25-
7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S. directs the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) to
consider adoption of rules for toxic air contaminant (TAC) reporting beginning in
calendar year 2025. The Commission is also granted authority to review, adopt, and
periodically revise the Division’s initial list of TAC at § 25-7-109.5(3)(b), C.R.S.
Collection and inventory of TAC data from sources in Colorado is essential to identifying
public health risks from TAC and implementation other aspects of HB 22-1244, such as
the identification of additional priority TAC (PTAC) pursuant to § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I),
C.R.S., the setting of health based standards for PTAC pursuant to § 25-7-
109.5(6)(a)(II), C.R.S., the creation of control regulations for PTAC pursuant to § 25-7-
109.5(7)(a), C.R.S. and the assessment of a potential Division permitting program for
PTAC pursuant to § 25-7-109.5(8)(a) C.R.S.

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A in a new Section IX.
to meet the statutory directive at § 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S. and to ensure
development of an accurate and robust TAC and related emissions reporting program.
The Commission acknowledges that there have been errors and gaps identified in



                                                                                          653
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

reported TAC emission data and associated modeling. The Commission also expanded
the annual reporting requirements to include annual reporting of criteria pollutant
emissions. This expansion builds upon current, periodic criteria pollutant emissions
reporting requirements to further develop an accurate and robust criteria pollutant
emissions reporting program and align reporting data years with TAC reporting.
Increasingly, the science suggests that some HAP play important roles in air chemistry
leading to formation of ozone and secondary organic aerosol, a component of PM2.5.
Having more complete TAC data will also be beneficial to improving modeling and
understanding of ozone and PM2.5. These revisions will support further TAC regulatory
requirements as set forth by HB 22-1244 as well as other air quality planning efforts
associated with these refined estimates for criteria and precursor emissions. The
Commission also adopted corresponding revisions to Regulation Number 7, Part A,
Section V.

Additionally, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
VI.D. to adjust the fee schedule for Air Pollution Emission Notice (APEN) filing fees,
permit processing fees, and annual emissions fees for regulated pollutants and
hazardous air pollutants (HAP).

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S. further authorizes
the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor,
record, and report information. Section 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S. directs the
Commission to, no later than April 30, 2025, consider the adoption of rules to revise
TAC reporting requirements initially authorized directly under statute 25-7-109.5(4)(a),
C.R.S. The Commission’s consideration of these reporting rules is based on the findings
of the gap analysis report that the Division provided to the Commission under 25-7-
109.5(4)(c)(I)-(II), C.R.S.




                                                                                         654
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Section 25-7-109.5(3)(a), C.R.S. instructs the Division to publish an initial TAC list by
October 1, 2022, and § 25-7-109.5(3)(b) gives the Commission authority to review the
list of TAC and determine whether to designate any additional air pollutants as TAC,
beginning no later than September 30, 2030, and every five years thereafter, or more
frequently if the Commission deems it appropriate to do so.

Sections 25-7-106(6) and 25-7-114.1., C.R.S. authorize the Commission to require
owners or operators of air pollution sources to record and report air pollutant emissions.

Section 25-7-114.1(6)(a) authorizes the Commission to adjust the APEN filing fee by
rule to cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop and administer the
programs established pursuant to the State Air Act. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a) C.R.S.
authorizes the Commission to adjust emissions fees and permit processing fees to
cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop and administer the programs
established pursuant to the State Air Act.

Purpose

As directed in § 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III), C.R.S., the Commission adopted revisions to
Regulation Number 3, Part A, by adding a new Section IX. to establish an annual
reporting regulation for TAC and criteria pollutants.

Regulation location

Regulation Number 3 is the Commission’s permitting and emissions reporting rule and
Regulation 30 is the new Commission air toxics rule. Due to the many rulemaking
actions planned related to air toxics in 2025, Regulation 30 did not exist at the time of
this noticed rulemaking and the Commission anticipates consolidating air toxics
requirements into Regulation 30 at a later date.

General provisions for annual emissions reports

The Commission adopted general provisions in Section IX.A. for annual emissions
reports, including applicability, exemptions, and definitions. In response to Party
concerns and in order to more narrowly focus these initial reporting revisions
surrounding mobile sources, the provisions refer to the term stationary source, as
defined in Part A, Section I.B.52., to describe applicable reporting entities. The


                                                                                        655
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Commission is not intending to include motor vehicles, as defined in § 25-7-103(18),
C.R.S., and non-road engines, as defined in Section I.B.36. in reporting requirements
under this Section IX. The new reporting requirements begin in 2027 for calendar year
2026 emissions, with annual reports continuing to be due on June 30 of each year. In
contrast to the initial HB 22-1244 annual reporting requirement, codified at § 25-7-
109.5(4)(a) C.R.S., under the annual emissions reporting rule, sources must only report
emissions of TAC above the de minimis thresholds set in Part A, Appendix C.

Acknowledging that the adopted provisions will impact owners or operators of sources
that may not be familiar with air pollution emissions reporting, and that the new
provisions are largely different from existing reporting requirements, the Commission
requests the Division to develop additional guidance, resources and trainings for subject
reporters prior to the initial year reporting deadline.

The Commission also expanded the annual reporting requirement in § 25-7-109.5(4)(a)
C.R.S., which requires sources with operating permits, also referred to as Title V
permits, and synthetic minor sources to submit TAC reports. The Commission is
requiring minor sources that emit above the de minimis reporting threshold for ethylene
oxide or minor sources of electroplating, plating, polishing, anodizing, coloring or other
industrial processes, including but not limited to thermal spraying, welding, plasma
cutting, and metal heat treating, aside from fuel combustion, that emit above the de
minimis thresholds for cadmium, nickel, hexavalent chromium to submit annual reports.
These minor sources are of specific concern as they are known to emit TAC that have
toxicity levels that can be harmful to human health at lower emissions levels than what
may currently be required to report to the Division and are also drivers of modeled
public health risk from TAC exposures. The Commission is extending the
implementation date of annual emissions reporting requirements for certain minor
sources, recognizing such sources may have never reported to state or federal
programs, or may not have reported for several years. The Commission’s intent is that
these minor sources may need additional time to self-identify, or the Division may need
additional time to conduct outreach to find contacts for these sources and use the extra
year to prepare for reporting and collaborate with Division staff as needed to ensure
timely and accurate reporting.


                                                                                        656
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Lastly, the Commission adopted the requirement for owners or operators reporting any
stack or fugitive air release to the EPA’s Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) to also report
emissions from any TRI pollutant if above the de minimis thresholds in Appendix C.
While many of the TRI reporters are required to obtain an operating permit or are a
synthetic minor source, there are numerous minor sources that only report their
emissions to Colorado in the TRI. Obtaining TAC reports from these sources will
improve the Division's TAC inventory and aid in future regulatory action around TAC
emissions.

At Part A, Section IX.A.2., the Commission adopted provisions to exempt specific
sources from submitting an annual report. The Commission retained the existing APEN
reporting exemptions at Part A, Section II.D.1. for owners or operators of stationary
sources reporting CAP or ozone precursors pursuant to Part A, Section IX.A.2.a. The
Commission adopted a refined list of reporting exemptions in Section IX.A.2. based on
the exemptions in Part A, Section II.D.1. for owners or operators of stationary sources
reporting TAC pursuant to Section IX.A.2.b. The exempted activities or equipment are
all known sources of TAC or CAP emissions but are exempted from the adopted
revisions based on feedback received during the gap analysis report, exemptions
common to several other state air toxics reporting programs, and the general
understanding that they emit negligible amounts of TAC or CAP at the location of the
source.

The Commission adopted definitions specific to annual emissions reporting at Part A,
Section IX.A.3. The definition of “actual emissions” was adopted to clarify that emissions
during startup and shutdown should be included in the annual reports. It is important
that startup and shutdown emissions are included as they are planned and predictable
events and can have a significant impact on the Division’s planning for control strategies
and understanding of emission sources.

The definition for “synthetic minor source” was added for clarity with a cross-reference
to the statutory definition provided at section 25-7-114(6) C.R.S. The definition for “toxic
air contaminant” was adopted to establish that for this annual reporting requirement,
TAC means any pollutant listed in Appendix C.



                                                                                          657
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Annual reporting of criteria pollutants was also adopted for subject reporters. The
definition of “criteria air pollutants (CAP) or precursors” was adopted to include reporting
of these pollutants. The annual reporting of CAP and pollutant precursors will allow the
Division to conduct additional data quality checks, maintain a consistent year basis for
the emissions reported from these sources, and share data annually or triennially with
the EPA for certain sources that are covered by the EPA’s Air Emissions Reporting
Requirements (AERR). The annual reporting of CAP with the annual reporting of TAC
will also allow the Division to streamline emissions reporting requirements and evaluate
the removal of emissions reporting to APEN requirements for sources reporting
emissions annually. To prevent duplicative reporting requirements, the Commission
requests the Division to propose any necessary revisions related to the APEN
requirements in calendar year 2026 to streamline these emissions reporting
requirements prior to the deadline for the first annual emissions reports.

Recordkeeping and general reporting requirements

The Commission adopted recordkeeping requirements for annual emissions reporting at
Part A, Section XI.B.1. These provisions require owners or operators subject to annual
reporting to retain certain data used in submitting reports, including all calculations or
modeling data used to estimate emissions if methods were performed outside of the
Division-approved submission platform. The Division's current reporting platform
gathers a total annual emission estimate but does not currently conduct any type of
calculations. Through anticipated future improvements to the reporting platform, the
system may conduct some basic calculations (e.g., hours of operation multiplied by an
emission factor and a throughput rate) and, therefore, it is necessary for reporters to
maintain records related to calculations performed outside of the reporting platform
system.

The Commission adopted general reporting requirements at Part A, Section IX.B.2.,
requiring reports to be submitted in a Division-approved format on or before June 30 of
each year, for previous calendar year emissions. For owners or operators not subject to
Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. requirements, the report will be completed by
way of an online application called the Combine Air Emissions Reporting System



                                                                                          658
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(CAERS). For owners or operators required to report via Regulation Number 7, Part B,
Section V., the TAC and additional CAP information will be integrated into the Oil and
Gas Annual Emission Inventory Reporting (ONGAEIR) form and submitted upon
completion of the ONGAEIR form. These reporting platforms may be subject to change
in the future to accommodate evolving technology requirements and streamline the
ability to receive, share, and analyze the reported data at the Division. The Division
should report periodically to the Commission on the status of the development of the
reporting/data system and platform. The Commission would support the Division’s
exercise of enforcement discretion if technical issues on the part of the Division prevent
compliance by subject sources.

Reporters must use the best available methods to estimate emissions data, as indicated
in guidance.. An owner or operator must provide justification to the Division in the report
for not using the specified estimation methods. The reporting guidance will list and
explain the acceptable alternative estimation methods used to report TAC or CAP
emissions. These methods shall be based on EPA best practices for reporting air toxic
and CAP emissions, as well as instructions found on the APEN form and cited in Part A,
Section II.B. of this regulation. It is not the intention of the Commission to require
emissions monitoring, testing, or other activities.

The Commission adopted provisions at Part A, Section IX.B.2.c. to require revised
reports in case of discovery of substantive errors in previous reporting, consistent with
requirements in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. The Commission adopted
provisions at Part A, Section IX.B.2.d. to clarify the responsible party for submitting the
reports in the case of change of ownership or control prior to the reporting deadline. The
Division will use TAC inventory data to satisfy many aspects of HB 22-1244, and the
correction of incorrect data is vital to understanding TAC emissions in Colorado.
Additionally, if there is a change of ownership or control of the source subject to
submitting an annual TAC report, prior to June 30 of the year that the report must be
submitted, the owner or operator as of June 30 of that year is responsible for submitting
the annual TAC report. This section meets requirements set forth in section 25-7-
109.5(4)(b) C.R.S.



                                                                                         659
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Contents of the annual TAC report

The Commission addressed the required contents of the annual emissions reports at
Part A, Section IX.B.3. The report must include the basic source information and actual
emissions of any TAC listed in Appendix C and any CAP or precursors. These
emissions must be provided at the individual emissions point, as provided in the
source’s permit or APEN where applicable, in contrast to the facility level reporting
required in HB 22-1244 for annual reports submitted before this rule’s adoption.
Reporting TAC and CAP data at the emissions point-level will allow the Division to better
characterize emissions and make these reports more compatible with other inventory-
based tools. The reporting thresholds for CAPs were adopted to align with the existing
APEN thresholds of one ton of uncontrolled emissions per year in a nonattainment area,
and two uncontrolled tons per year in an attainment/maintenance area. However, actual
emissions of VOC, PM 2.5, or PM 10, regardless of thresholds, must be reported if they
were used to calculate TAC emissions for the purpose of the annual report. Reporters
may group similar equipment under a single emissions point, in accordance with
grouping requirements in published Division guidance. Since some equipment or
activities may not have an assigned emission point because they are below APEN
reporting thresholds, or otherwise not covered by APEN reporting requirements, the
Division will provide additional guidance on grouping criteria as part of implementing
these revised annual emission reporting requirements. Grouped emissions reporting will
allow the Division to collect data on smaller sources of emissions that may still have a
significant impact on ambient air concentration levels of a given pollutant.

Owners or operators must include process information for the equipment or activity
emitting any TAC or CAP, the permit identifier (AIRS ID), and any emission control
devices installed and their efficiencies. The reporting of this information allows the
Division to check the estimates for reasonableness, ensures the Division acquires
accurate and detailed data from sources, and allows the data to be used in modeling
platforms to refine the estimated public health risks from exposures to TAC. Finally, the
reports submitted must also be certified by a person who is eligible to submit the report
for each source.



                                                                                         660
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

TAC lists and de minimis reporting thresholds

The Commission adopted a TAC list in Part A, Appendix C pursuant to section 25-7-
109.5(3)(b) C.R.S. and for the purpose of streamlining and clarifying TAC reporting
requirements for owners or operators subject to this rule. Owners and operators of a
stationary source reporting pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX., must
report emissions of each individual TAC, per emissions point (or aggregated if allowed
by the Division) if the stationary source-wide total of that individual TAC exceeds the
corresponding de minimis threshold of that TAC. Source-wide means facility-wide, and
includes all emissions of each individual TAC at that stationary source. Owners and
operators of facilities or companies with activities or equipment reporting pursuant to
Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V., must report TAC, per emissions point of such
activity or equipment, if the facility-wide total of that individual TAC exceeds the
corresponding de minimis threshold of that TAC.

The Division initially published a list of TAC in 2022, pursuant to section 25-7-
109.5(3)(a) C.R.S. The Division made minor administrative corrections to this list in
June and December 2023 to prepare for the initial TAC reports authorized under section
25-7-109.5(4)(a) C.R.S. The latest Division list included 477 TAC, while Appendix C
shows the 344 TAC that were adopted. Appendix C reflects additional data analysis and
research performed by the Division to ensure that TAC included in the reporting
requirements beginning with calendar year 2026 meet the statutory definition of TAC at
section 25-7-109.5(1)(i)(I) and (II), C.R.S., or are otherwise appropriate for the
Commission to adopt under the considerations provided in section 25-7-109.5(3)(d)
C.R.S. Specifically, in addition to TAC classified as a federal HAP, the Commission
adopted all TAC listed Regulation 3, Part A, Appendix B that were not classified as a
state or federal HAP and methyl ethyl ketone where these TAC had a known inhalation
unit risk estimate (URE) or Reference Concentration (RfC) from air emissions. The URE
and RfC are two factors that can be used to estimate the adverse cancer or non-cancer
health impacts consistent with section 25-7-109.5(3)(d)(III) C.R.S. Additionally, the
Commission considered whether these pollutants were reported in Colorado, consistent
with section 25-7-109.5(3)(d)(II)(A) C.R.S., and whether the pollutants appeared on TAC
lists in other states, consistent with section 25-7-109.5(3)(d)(IV) C.R.S. The Commission


                                                                                          661
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

found that most of these pollutants with toxicity values were reported in Colorado and
also appeared on other state TAC lists. The Commission also adopted individual
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) that were on the Division’s October 2022 list
into Appendix C. The Commission also adopted ultrafine particles and black carbon into
Appendix C as TACs; however, the Commission did not, at this time, adopt any
reporting requirements for ultrafine particles and black carbon.

Within the TAC list, the Commission adopted TAC-specific de minimis reporting
thresholds. These thresholds were established after considering the relative toxicities of
each pollutant on the TAC list and risk levels, consistent with the screening levels that
were used to identify PTAC. The risk levels evaluated were 1 excess cancer case per
million people and for non-cancer health impacts, a hazard quotient of greater than or
equal to 0.1. In addition, conservative additional modeling parameters and statistical
analysis assumptions were used to develop the thresholds. For 2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin),
these considerations resulted in a value of 0; however, the Commission adopted a
threshold of 0.1 gram in order to align the thresholds with the current TRI thresholds in
order to minimize complexity and burden. The thresholds for certain TAC without a URE
or RfC where a reporting threshold could not be determined as described above, are
based on the APEN thresholds of 250 lbs/year. In the context of TAC reporting however,
the threshold of 250 lbs/year is based on the controlled actual emissions across the
entire TAC source instead of the uncontrolled emission-point level thresholds that exist
in the APEN program. The reporting thresholds in Appendix C were adopted to reduce
reporting burden and obtain useful TAC data. They are not being adopted as health-
based standards. Health-based standards for PTACs will be the subject of future
rulemaking and are subject to General Assembly approval. The reporting thresholds are
also not being adopted as permitting thresholds. Reporting emissions at or above the de
minimis thresholds does not indicate the need for a facility or stationary source to
assess risk to receptors. In setting these reporting thresholds, the Commission intends
for reporting to inform the Division’s TAC program in the future, and is not concluding or
suggesting that reporting emissions above the de minimis threshold indicates a potential
health risk to individuals or potential receptors near the source. In keeping with this
approach, the Commission understands that the Division will not use reporting above


                                                                                          662
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

the de minimis thresholds alone to presume any potential for risk from facility or source
and will take steps as necessary to educate the public on understanding potential for
risk from exposures to air toxics consistent with the commission’s intent in setting de
minimis thresholds.

The Commission requests that the Division evaluate whether revisions to this reporting
rule are warranted in the future, and in doing so, consider alternative methodologies or
alternative values for de minimis reporting thresholds to further streamline reporting
while still achieving the desired information to inform future iterations of the Division’s air
toxics program.

Other Items

While these reporting revisions reflect the vast majority of recommendations in the gap
analysis report, there are some recommendations that the Commission did not adopt in
these rule revisions. Regarding the recommendations that related to potential changes
to the APEN program, we anticipate that future revisions may be needed to further
streamline the reporting and future use of actual emission data submitted on APEN
forms. However, given that APEN are the current sole basis of annual emission fees,
those changes cannot be made at this time. Additionally, regarding the recommendation
to potentially retain TAC reporting requirements on sources who may change from major
or synthetic minors to minor sources, there is insufficient data available to support the
need for this reporting and they could be considered at a future iteration.

Fees

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Section VI.D. to increase
emissions fees and permit processing fees to cover the indirect and direct costs
required to develop and administer the programs; established pursuant to this article 7.
The Commission occasionally updates fees to adjust for inflation or account for new
statutory requirements. These fees fund Division programs and services to improve and
protect air quality in Colorado and enhanced state statutory and federal requirements to
protect clean air in recent years have gone beyond what current fees assessed and
collected support.




                                                                                           663
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.D.1. to
increase the APEN filing fee from $242.00 to $363.00. The Commission adopted
revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.D.2. to increase the permit
processing fees from $119.00 per hour to $180.00. The Commission adopted revisions
to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.D.3. to increase the annual emission fees
for regulated pollutants from $36.00 per ton to $60.00 and for hazardous air pollutants
from $239.00 per ton to $398.00. However, for emissions in 2025, the Commission
increased the annual emission fees for regulated pollutants from $36.00 per ton to
$84.00 and for hazardous air pollutants from $239.00 per ton to $557.00, to be billed in
calendar year 2026. Beginning with 2026 emissions, the fees will revert back to the
$60/ton and $239/ton figures.

Recognizing the significant fees imposed on regulated entities and the anticipated
additional fee increases in future years, the Commission requests the Division to
annually evaluate the Division’s direct and indirect program costs, provide the
evaluation to the Commission, and request a rulemaking hearing to adjust the costs if
program costs are determined during that assessment to be higher, lower, or
alternatively funded. The Commission requests the Division, in consultation with
emission sources and other stakeholders, assess the fee program and make
recommendations to evaluate the need to modify the fee structure, particularly related to
TAC emissions; address the impact of impending closures of large emitting sources on
current fee payors; reduce costs through efficiencies and alternative funding sources;
and identify needed legislative and regulatory changes. The Commission expects the
Division to continue engagement with fee payers and other stakeholders to explore
broad-based options to modernize the issuance of air quality permits and improve
transparency while protecting public health and complying with legal requirements
through continued implementation of the stationary source control fund (SSCF)
meetings. The Commission expects the SSCF meetings to evaluate and the Division to
implement efficiency improvements including, but not limited to, reducing permit and
modeling processing timelines; streamlining the processing of administrative and minor
permit modifications; increasing transparency in the Division’s permit processing, billing,
emissions inventories, and compliance inspections; and ensuring the Division’s forms,


                                                                                       664
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

reporting tools, and electronic interfaces are user-friendly, efficient, and functional for
the regulated community. As part of these discussions, the Commission requests the
Division work with stakeholders to identify additional opportunities from providing
transparency on process improvements now and throughout the currently ongoing
modernization effort. Further, the Commission requests an annual briefing be provided
to the Commission (in addition to updates in the Division Director’s report) and routine
updates be provided to interested stakeholders and to interested stakeholders through
SSCF meetings, or other public meetings as appropriate, describing what process
improvements have been implemented and providing information on process
performance including updates on permit processing times, permit backlogs, process
modernization efforts, and issued guidance. The Commission intends to promulgate any
future fee increases with sufficient lead time to allow fee payers to plan their operations
and budget for the additional costs. To ensure equity, the Commission also intends to
assess emissions fees at the same rate (i.e., dollars per ton) for all emissions that occur
during each calendar year. Accordingly, the Commission expects the Division to submit
any future fee rulemaking petitions early enough to apply the revised fees at the
beginning of the next calendar year.

The Commission also recognizes that sustained emissions reductions from stationary
sources have reduced the number of tons of criteria pollutants, hazardous air pollutants,
and greenhouse gases upon which fees are assessed under Section VI.D. The number
of tons subject to Section VI.D. fees are expected to continue declining, which will
further reduce the base upon which fees are paid. Accordingly, the Commission
requests the Division to evaluate options for revising the fee structure to establish a
more stable and broad-based funding mechanism. The Division’s evaluation should
include identifying opportunities for assessing fees on persons or entities other than
stationary sources.

Further, these revisions address typographical cross-reference errors found within the
regulation.

Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable)




                                                                                          665
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

There are no direct federal requirements that correspond with the new rule. However, to
the extent the new rule could be construed to exceed or differ from any related
requirements of federal law, the Commission provides the following additional
statement, consistent with section 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S.:

(I) Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on
those requirements;

There are several federal regulations that are related, but not directly applicable, to
Colorado’s adoption of annual TAC reporting regulations. These federal reporting
programs are not directly applicable, as the Commission’s consideration of a state
annual TAC reporting regulation is a state statutory requirement under section 25-7-
109.5(4)(c)(III) C.R.S. The related federal reporting requirements are:

a.     U.S. EPA Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)

The EPA TRI collects annual reports from facilities that discharge chemicals into the
environment via the air, water, land, or underground injection, and any associated
pollution prevention strategies. Sources that must report to the TRI are based on
chemical activity thresholds at a facility, are covered industries based on certain NAICS
codes, or report based on the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act
(EPCRA) section 313(b)(2). Each chemical listed under the TRI has specific activity
thresholds that may trigger reporting.

The Commission adopted a requirement for sources that report to TRI to also report
annual emissions of any TRI pollutant above the de minimis reporting thresholds in
Appendix C to the Division. This requirement allows the Division to evaluate emissions
data currently reported by minor sources solely to TRI with the annual TAC reports and
to evaluate instances where emissions reported to the TRI are vastly different than the
emissions reported to the Division, improving TAC modeling efforts and programs.

b.     U.S. EPA Air Emissions Reporting Rule (AERR)

The EPA collects toxic air emissions data through the AERR. At present, the AERR
gathers data from states on CAP: sulfur dioxide SO2, volatile organic compounds
(VOC), nitrogen oxides (NOx), primary particulate matter 10 (PM10) and 2.5 (PM2.5)),



                                                                                          666
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

carbon monoxide (CO), lead (Pb) and ammonia (NH3). State reporting of federal HAP to
the EPA is currently voluntary, although the Division has provided HAP voluntarily to
EPA for many decades based on data reported under the APEN program. States are
required to report CAP data for certain larger sources based on potential to emit. Under
the current AERR, states report annually for ‘very large’ sources and triennially for ‘large’
sources The thresholds for ‘large’ and ‘very large’ sources are dependent upon non-
attainment area (NAA) classification for one or more National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS). The Commission’s adopted revisions at Part A, Section IX., are
structured in a way that is largely compatible with the current AERR.

The Commission adopted revisions at Part B, Section IX. require annual reporting of
emissions from all sources required to obtain an operating permit, which is more
frequent than the triennial requirement in the current AERR, but consistent with the
annual requirement in section 25-7-109.5(4)(c)(III) C.R.S.

(II) Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-
based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not;

The federal requirements related to reporting of TAC or CAP emissions are not
performance-based or technology-based.

(III) Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are
of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect
Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal process that established
the federal requirements;

The federal reporting requirements in the EPA TRI or AERR do not specifically address
Colorado’s statutory directive to consider a TAC reporting program that ensures annual
reports on TAC are submitted to the Division.

(IV) Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially
conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or
reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent requirements later;




                                                                                         667
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The adopted revisions at Part A, Section IX. establish additional reporting requirements
on the regulated community. Multiple commenters urged the Division to minimize
potential duplicative reporting burden on impacted sources. To accomplish this
objective, where applicable, the revisions align reporting format and procedures with
federal requirements, to simplify and clarify requirements for owners and operators
reporting to both federal and state programs. The Division is planning to use an EPA
web-based reporting system, Consolidated Air Emissions Reporting System (CAERS),
that will be pre-populated with equipment parameters and can be connected to other
reporting programs such as the EPA TRI. Additionally, the adopted revisions for the
annual reporting of CAP and incidental pollutants, as well as the specified small entity
requirements, allow for flexibilities helping the Division move towards more streamlined
reporting requirements and reducing burden on reports. Additionally, the de minimis
reporting thresholds in Part A, Appendix C, which were not part of the initial reporting
requirement codified at section 25-7-109.5(4)(a) C.R.S., streamlines the pollutants that
sources must report and improves the ability of the regulated community to comply in a
more cost-effective way.

(V) Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
implementation of federal requirements;

These are state-specific revisions that are not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
no major timing issue exists. However, the TRI has an annual reporting deadline of July
1. The current AERR has a deadline for states to submit point source data by December
31 of the year after inventory year, with grace period extension of 15 days. In Colorado,
this submittal would include the latest data on file at the time of the submittal, which
could reflect the inventory year but could also reflect emissions from prior years due to
the 5-year update frequency under the APEN program. The adopted revisions establish
a TAC reporting deadline of June 30 each year, for the previous calendar year
emissions, which is consistent with TRI and provides time for Division staff to review
submittals that reflect the more accurate previous calendar year emissions prior to the
current AERR submittal deadlines.




                                                                                           668
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(VI) Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

The reporting revisions in Part A, Section IX. are retrospective in that they will require
sources to report past emissions (i.e., by June 30, 2027, sources must report calendar
year 2026 emissions data) and, therefore, are not subject to uncertainty and do not
hinder or negatively affect future growth of facilities.

(VII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
the requirements for various sources;

The reporting requirements are consistent across source types, as they are based on
de minimis thresholds in Appendix C and, therefore, maintain reasonable equity in the
reporting requirements. Although not all minor sources are required to report TAC
annually, the minor sources being required to submit annual TAC reports are sources
that emit specific pollutants of concern. The Commission believes collecting data from
these sources is vital in its efforts to characterize and regulate TAC in the state. These
new minor sources will also utilize the de minimis reporting thresholds in Appendix C.
Additionally, the small entity provision at Section IX.B.3.a(iv)(A) allows qualified sources
to report at the facility-level and maintains equity in supporting small businesses.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted;

It is not anticipated there would be increased direct costs to others if a more stringent
rule is not enacted.

(IX) Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and
what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements;

The adopted revisions do require additional and different reporting requirements for
pollutants in Colorado, compared to federal reporting requirements. Reporting
requirements beyond those required under federal law are necessary to effectively
quantify and analyze TAC emissions in Colorado. The Commission is required by state
statute to consider establishing an annual TAC reporting program, among other



                                                                                         669
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

regulatory directives around TAC that may all be impacted by the Division’s and the
Commission’s ability to acquire accurate and detailed TAC data from sources of air
emissions in the state. Collecting data at the levels, frequencies, and granularity that the
adopted revisions established will be vital to future regulations surrounding TAC, many
of which are required by state statute.

(X) Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
requirement;

EPA has promoted an alternative web-based data collection instrument called CAERS,
to help collect this emissions information. This program is compatible with reporting
under the current AERR reporting requirements. CAERS provides a unified platform for
emissions reporting, simplifying the process for facilities that may otherwise need to
navigate multiple reporting systems. This consolidation can lead to greater consistency
in data reporting and potentially reduce the administrative burden on reporting entities.
For example, this data system can also connect with a system (TRI-MEweb) to report
TRI emissions for those sources also required to submit a TRI report. Additionally,
CAERS provides options to submit data in a bulk upload format and provides several
data validation checks to improve the quality of the reported data. CAERS is also able
to collect emissions of both TAC and CAP at the emission point level and it has been
demonstrated in use by several other state agencies. The Division is investigating the
applicability and timing of using CAERS in the adopted annual TAC reporting program.

(XI) Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

The adopted revisions will allow for the development of a comprehensive and robust
TAC inventory, which will enable and inform future implementation strategies to identify
additional priority TAC, develop cost-effective emission control strategy regulations, and
evaluate a TAC permitting program, as directed by section 25-7-109.5. C.R.S.

(XII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
required standard.




                                                                                         670
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The revisions in Part A, Section IX. achieve the statutorily mandated directive to
consider reporting requirements that ensure annual TAC emissions are reported to the
Division. Alternate reporting requirements could satisfy the state statutory requirements.
For example, alternative requirements could include a variation of the proposed TAC list
in Appendix C, different de minimis reporting thresholds, different source applicability
criteria, or different TAC report contents. A no-action alternative would default to existing
statutory language at section 25-7-109.5(4)(a) C.R.S., which directs annual TAC
reporting only from sources required to obtain title V operating permits and synthetic
minor sources. However, this alternative would omit reporting a large proportion of TAC
emissions in the state and could prevent the Division from collecting important data
about equipment and operations that would inform TAC regulations going forward.
Under this alternative approach, de minimis thresholds would also not exist, meaning
that sources could face additional reporting burdens.

Findings of Fact

Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements do not apply to this rulemaking because the
adopted rule is not directly intended to reduce air pollution. To the extent § 25-7-110.8,
C.R.S. does apply to this rulemaking; after considering all the information in the record,
the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I) The rule is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific
methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted by
interested parties.

(II) The rule is not intended to address a reduction in air pollution, or, in the alternative,
is administrative in nature.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule provides benefits that justify
the costs to government to implement the rule, and to the extent possible, minimizes
any cost to the regulated community or public in order for the Commission to establish
sufficiently comprehensive and robust inventories of TAC.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results
and reduction in air pollution.



                                                                                            671
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(V) The rule does not directly result in air quality benefits but addresses state statutory
requirements in a cost-effective manner.




                                                                                         672
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                        5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

I.LLL. Adopted: November 19-21, 2025
Revisions to Regulation Number 3: Part A, Sections I.B., II.C., and VI.E.; Part B,
Sections III.B., III.D., and III.J.; and Part C, Sections II.E., III.C., and V.C.

Basis

In 2022, the Air Quality Control Commission (Commission) adopted the major stationary
source fee provisions in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section VI.E. The Division had
proposed these provisions in response to the classification as a severe ozone
nonattainment area under the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards
(NAAQS) so as to include such fee program as directed by the Clean Air Act (CAA)
section 185, should Colorado fail to attain the 2008 ozone NAAQS by the applicable
severe attainment date. However, the provisions were based on EPA guidance that EPA
has not updated for the 8-hour ozone NAAQS.

The emission reduction credit (ERC) program allows for the generation of tradeable
ERCs for voluntary emission reductions by sources beyond legal and permit
requirements. The Commission adopted revisions to remove provisions that were based
on outdated federal regulations and guidance, such as inapplicable terms and
definitions, and to improve implementation.

In House Bill 21-1266 the General Assembly determined that “state action to correct
environmental injustice is imperative, and state policy can and should improve public
health and the environment and improve the overall well-being of all communities…
[and] efforts to right past wrongs and move toward environmental justice must focus on
disproportionately impacted communities and the voices of their residents.” Therefore,
the Commission adopted, among other things, more stringent requirements for sources
located in or near disproportionately impacted communities, referencing § 24-4-
109(2)(b)(II), C.R.S., which includes the definition of “disproportionately impacted
community”. Previously, the definition in this regulation referenced Version 1.0 of
Colorado EnviroScreen as the tool used to identify disproportionately impacted
communities, cumulatively impacted communities, and socioeconomically vulnerable
communities in Colorado. In November 2024, the Colorado Department of Public Health
and Environment (CDPHE) published the Colorado Disproportionately Impacted


                                                                                            673
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Community Map to be used as the primary mapping tool for identifying
disproportionately impacted communities, cumulatively impacted communities, and
socioeconomically vulnerable communities in Colorado. The Colorado
Disproportionately Impacted Community Map (November 2024) uses some data from
Colorado EnviroScreen, which was also updated from Version 1.0 to Version 2.0 in
November 2024, but is a separate tool. When updating Colorado EnviroScreen and the
new Colorado Disproportionately Impacted Community Map in November 2024, CDPHE
also updated the underlying census data used to inform the tools, causing the
classification of some communities to change. Therefore, the Commission updated the
disproportionately impacted community definition to reference the new mapping tool and
include the statutory criteria for mobile home communities in the definition as used in
the regulation.

Specific Statutory Authority

Section 185 of the Clean Air Act (CAA) requires states with ozone nonattainment areas
classified as Severe or Extreme to develop a fee collection rule in the event the area
does not attain by the applicable attainment date. The Commission is tasked with
promulgating rules necessary for the proper implementation of Colorado’s SIP. § 25-7-
105, C.R.S. The SIP must meet all requirements of the CAA and must be revised
whenever necessary and appropriate. Id. The Commission adopted revisions to the
CAA section 185 fee program pursuant to this authority.

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (State Air Act) authorizes the
Commission to promulgate a comprehensive State Implementation Plan (SIP) and
promulgate all rules that are necessary for proper implementation and administration of
Article 7 of the State Air Act. § 25-7-105(1)(a), C.R.S. The SIP must assure attainment
of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and prevent significant
deterioration of air quality in conformance with Article 7 of the State Air Act. § 25-7-
105(1)(a)(I), C.R.S. Moreover, section 25-7-304, C.R.S., requires the SIP provide a
means for emission reduction offsets to be preserved for sale or use in the future if
those reductions exceed those otherwise necessary for the granting of a permit under
Part 3 of the State Air Act. The Commission is granted maximum flexibility in developing



                                                                                           674
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

an effective air quality control program and is authorized to promulgate any such
combination of regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out that program.
§ 25-7-106(1), C.R.S. This includes, and is not limited to, requiring an owner and
operator of a source to: (1) establish and maintain reports; (2) record or monitor
emissions; and (3) install, use and maintain monitoring equipment. The Commission is
tasked with promulgating regulations as necessary and proper for the orderly and
effective administration of construction permits and renewable operating permits. § 25-
7-114.4(1), C.R.S. These regulations must implement permit and permit application
procedures including: (1) procedures to be followed in the event of expansion or
modification of the source; and (2) procedures to make available any permit application,
compliance plan, or permit among other items. § 25-7-114.4(1)(i),(o), C.R.S. The
Commission adopted revisions to the minor permit modification procedures pursuant to
the outlined authority.

Section 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(A), C.R.S. asserts that all statewide agencies shall use the
definition of disproportionately impacted community as set forth in the statute. § 24-4-
109(2)(a)(I)(B), provides that a statewide agency may “prioritize or target” certain
subsets of communities that meet the definition of disproportionately impacted
community if the prioritization is warranted and reasonably tailored to the statewide
action being taken. If the statewide agency making the determination to prioritize or
target retains rulemaking authority, the agency must make this determination by rule.
See § 24-4-109(2)(a)(I)(B). Section 24-4-109(2)(b)(IV), defines “statewide agency” to
include any commission, thus, the Commission is authorized to prioritize or target
certain subsets of the definition of disproportionately impacted community so long as
that prioritization is warranted and reasonably tailored to the Commission’s action.

Purpose

       Annual Actual Emissions Definition

In 2004, the Commission adopted “annual actual emissions” to replace “actual
emissions” throughout Part A in reference to APENs so that the source’s reported
emissions are those actually emitted during a single year. In contrast, “actual emissions”
was placed in Part D to be used for major stationary source determination purposes.


                                                                                         675
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Therefore, the Commission did not intend the definition of “annual actual emissions” to
broadly impact existing requirements in Regulation Number 3. With the updated
definition of “annual actual emissions” adopted as part of this rulemaking, the
Commission maintains its previous stance that these changes apply only to Part A in
reference to APENs. It is also the Commission’s understanding that this revision to the
definition of “annual actual emissions” will not interfere with or replace the use of EPA-
or state-specified performance tests to determine compliance.

The Commission recognizes that emissions from malfunctions, and startups and
shutdowns associated with malfunctions, may not be readily ascertainable.

Revisions to the emission reduction credit program

The Commission adopted significant revisions to Part A, Section V for the ERC
program, that included focusing and simplifying requirements, removing unnecessary
provisions, and reorganizing sections for improved clarity. These changes improve the
effectiveness, stringency, implementation, and administration of the program. Changes
adopted by the Commission included revising the program so that the credits pertain to
only Nonattainment New Source Review (NANSR) offsets for the ozone nonattainment
area; making credits apply only to reductions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and
oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions, although future considerations may be made to
expand the regulation to other pollutants, provided that nonattainment areas are
designated for said pollutant(s); removing or revising definitions and references to
provisions that are not used in Regulation Number 3, are improperly used, or are
redundant; updating how emissions are calculated and assessed for determining offsets
and credit applicability; revising, clarifying, and modernizing program procedures for
more effective implementation; and replacing or removing outdated and/or inapplicable
provisions including modeling requirements, hazardous air pollutant trading, the
baseline emissions calculator, and interpollutant/interprecursor emissions trading.

Owners and operators of stationary sources described in section V.D.1.a. are voluntarily
applying for ERCs. As a condition for obtaining certified ERCs, all operating sources,
including APEN-exempt and permit-exempt sources, are required to submit an APEN
and apply for and accept a permit as a condition for obtaining certified ERCs, per Part


                                                                                         676
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

A, Section V.D.4.f., and are subject to payment of all associated processing and filing
fees. Shut-down sources may not be required to submit an APEN or apply for a permit.

Under section V.D.3.f., the Division has 120 days from the receipt of an application to
request additional information. While the Division intends to make such requests within
this period, circumstances may arise that require the Division to request information
after the 120-day window has elapsed. Section V.D.3.f. does not prohibit requests
beyond 120 days; rather, the timeframe sets an expected window for when applicants
can expect to receive inquiries about an application.

Part A, Section V.C.1 defines the base year for the SIP planning process as the baseline
year for reasonable further progress (RFP) demonstrations submitted to the EPA for the
applicable NAAQS and nonattainment area. The base years (as of the effective date of
this regulation) are 2011 for the 2008 ozone NAAQS and 2017 for the 2015 ozone
NAAQS.

Part A, Section V.D.2.a. prohibits any emission reductions from mobile sources from
being certified as ERCs unless those sources are subject to ambient impact and new
source review permitting. Currently, the Division’s permitting programs are not set up to
permit mobile sources and lack a mechanism for the enforceability of these permits, and
therefore any ERC applications for mobile sources would not be able to be processed.
The Division is open to revisiting this rule in a future rulemaking if the Division
establishes a process for handling these mobile source permits and would like to move
forward with establishing a mobile source ERC program. The Commission has no
intention of directing the development of a mobile source permitting program currently.

A source with an emissions unit out of compliance with a nonattainment pollutant may
submit an ERC application and may be eligible to receive ERCs even if the emission
unit is out of compliance at time of application if the source seeks reductions beyond
what is required for the unit to return to compliance. Reductions beyond what is required
to return to compliance must be achieved in compliance with V.D.4.f. If upon the
Division’s substantive review of the ERC application, the emissions unit is still out of
compliance with the emissions limit, the Division may deny the application.




                                                                                           677
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

The adopted changes help ensure that ERCs are appropriately administered for
sources that achieve emissions offsets that ultimately reduce ozone precursors in the
nonattainment area.

Revisions regarding the disproportionately impacted community definitions and their use

The Commission adopted revisions to the definitions of disproportionately impacted
community, cumulatively impacted community, and socioeconomically vulnerable
community (collectively referred to here as disproportionately impacted communities) to
update the data tool used to identify such communities in Colorado and to include the
statutory criteria for mobile home communities found in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(G), C.R.S.
The Commission directs the use of the Colorado Disproportionately Impacted
Community Map (November 2024) to identify disproportionately impacted communities.
The areas in Colorado that meet criteria in the definitions are displayed on the Colorado
Disproportionately Impacted Community Map. For uses of this regulation, users must
select the statutory criteria from § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(A)-(D), (F), and (G), C.R.S. Those
criteria are labeled as: “Mobile home communities”, “Low-income population above
40%”, “People of color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population
above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”, and “Colorado
EnviroScreen percentile score above 80”. For identifying disproportionately impacted
communities, users select all six criteria. For identifying cumulatively impacted
communities, users select only the criterion for “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score
above 80”. For identifying socioeconomically vulnerable communities, users select only
the criteria for “Mobile home communities”, “Low-income population above 40%”,
“People of color population above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population above
50%”, and “Linguistically isolated population above 20%”. In contrast to this Map,
Colorado EnviroScreen does not itself define disproportionately impacted communities,
except, as directed by HB 23-1233. While updating the mapping tools, CDPHE also
updated the census data used for the Colorado Disproportionately Impacted Community
Map from the American community survey (5 year) 2015-2019 dataset to the American
community survey (5 year) 2018-2022 dataset. CDPHE is committed to continuous
improvement of these mapping tools and will continue to update the Colorado
Disproportionately Impacted Community Map to reflect the most recent data and meet


                                                                                        678
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

the needs of the people and organizations it is intended to benefit. The use of an
updated Disproportionately Impacted Community Map and its data in the future for
purposes of Regulation Number 3 will not be required until the citations to the updated
map within the regulation are revised and adopted through a rulemaking. Additionally,
the Commission chose to include the statutory criteria for mobile home communities,
which is in line with the revisions adopted to the definitions used in Regulation Number
7 and accounts for the possibility of reportable emissions sources being located in
mobile home communities. The Commission did not identify, target, or prioritize the
criteria for Tribal lands provided for in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(H), C.R.S., because the
Commission’s permitting rules do not apply to areas under tribal jurisdiction, and this
prong of the definition is therefore irrelevant to this rulemaking. Moreover, the
Commission did not identify, target or prioritize the criteria for historically marginalized
communities provided for in § 24-4-109(2)(b)(II)(E), C.R.S. because no party to the
rulemaking presented evidence of historic discriminatory laws, policies, or practices, or
evidence of present day environmental health disparities.

The Commission adopted revisions in several sections to clarify the identification of
disproportionately impacted communities in the permitting process by setting a date
during the permitting process that solidifies the disproportionately impacted community
status of a source for the remainder of the permitting process. The time between when
permit application materials are submitted and the actual permit is issued can span
months, during which time the disproportionately impacted community mapping tools
and census data may be updated. Because there are regulatory requirements
associated with a source being located in a disproportionately impacted community or
cumulatively impacted community, there was confusion about which requirements a
source that changes disproportionately impacted community status is subject to for the
final permit. Therefore, the Commission adopted language in Part B, Sections III.B.4.,
III.D.2.c., III.D.2.d., and III.J.1.; and Part C, Sections III.C.15., V.C.5.d., and V.C.5.d.(i),
establishing that a source is identified as being located in a disproportionately impacted
community as of the date the permit application is received by the Division. The
Commission clarifies that the permit application includes any materials submitted to the
Division as part of a complete permit application under Part B, Section III.B. or Part C,


                                                                                              679
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Section III.C., including the associated environmental justice summary, ambient air
quality analysis, and Air Pollutant Emission Notice (APEN), as applicable. The permit
application process begins upon the date the earliest of the applicable materials is
received by the Division, which is also the date used to assess the disproportionately
impacted community status of the source. The disproportionately impacted community
location status and associated requirements are in place for a source’s permit until the
source submits materials initiating another permit application, at which time the
disproportionately impacted community status would be reevaluated.

The Commission also clarifies that the ambient air quality analysis refers to the
materials submitted to the Division for purposes of assessing compliance with the
National Ambient Air Quality Standards, pursuant to Part B, Sections III.B.7.d. and
III.D.1.c. or Part C, Sections III.C.12.d. and IV.A., such as Form APCD-114. The
Commission reiterates that the environmental justice summary is not always required,
due to the exemptions in Part B, Section III.B.5.e. and Part C, Section III.C.14.a. The
Commission further clarifies that the Division’s receipt of an initial permit application
material does not trigger any timelines for determining completeness of an application.
Pursuant to Part B, Section III.B.6. and Part C, Section IV.B., an application is not
assessed for completeness until all information and data required to evaluate the
application have been submitted to the Division.

Additionally, the Commission adopted revisions to Part C, Section V.C.5.d.(i) clarifying
the intention of the permitting requirement and restructuring the section to make it
easier to understand, including breaking down the paragraph into multiple sub-
paragraphs. The purpose of the provision is for sources submitting operating permit
renewals to review the emissions increases of any individual modifications of the
operating permit since the last renewal to determine applicability of source-specific
monitoring. For this provision, “the last renewal” may also refer to the initially issued
operating permit.

Further, the adopted revisions address typographical, cross-reference, and minor errors
found within the regulation.




                                                                                            680
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:

(I)      These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
         sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
         information submitted by interested parties.

(II)     Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
         demonstrable reduction of VOCs and NOx emissions.

(III)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
         reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
         implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)     The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
         results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
         reduction in air pollution.

(V)      The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
         effective manner.

I.MMM.          Adopted: May 21-22, 2026
Revisions to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Sections II. and VI. and Part D, Section
X.A.5.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-101, C.R.S., et. seq. (the
State Air Act or Act), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural
Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. §1001-1.

Basis

The Commission revised emissions reporting requirements for sources subject to the
requirement to submit a greenhouse gas (GHG) air pollutant emission notice (APEN)
and for sources subject to other annual emissions reporting requirements to reduce



                                                                                           681
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

duplicative emissions reporting. The Commission adopted fee increases in Regulation
Number 3 to increase revenue necessary to fund the direct and indirect costs of the
Division’s implementation of its stationary source programs. And, the Commission
revised increment provisions toclearly label them as state-only once the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency takes action to remove them from the state
implementation plan.

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of Title 25, Article 7. Section 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), C.R.S., directs the
promulgation of a state implementation plan that meets requirements of the federal act
and that will be revised when necessary or appropriate. Section 25-7-105.1(1), C.R.S.,
limits State Air Act provisions and standards and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto that are not required by federal requirements from being included in the state
implementation plan.

Section 25-7-109.5, C.R.S., directs the Commission to consider the adoption of rules
that ensure annual reports on toxic air contaminants are submitted to the Division and
may require additional types of information to be included in annual toxic emissions
reports submitted to the Division for operations and emissions occurring in calendar
year 2025 and each calendar year thereafter. Sections 25-7-106(6), 25-7-114.1, and 25-
7-140, C.R.S., authorize the Commission to require owners or operators of air pollution
sources to record and report air pollutant emissions.

Section 25-7-114.1(6)(a), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to adjust the APEN filing
fee by rule to cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop and administer the
programs established pursuant to Title 25, Article 7. Sections 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(I)(A) and
(2)(a)(I)(B) authorize the Commission to adjust emissions fees to cover the indirect and
direct costs required to develop and administer the programs established pursuant to
Title 25, Article 7. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(III), C.R.S., authorizes the Commission to
adjust processing fees for any application other than an air pollution emissions notice to


                                                                                            682
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop and administer the programs
established pursuant to Title 25, Article 7. Section 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(VII), C.R.S.,
authorizes the collection of greenhouse gas emission fees sufficient to cover the indirect
and direct costs required to develop and administer the programs pertaining to
emissions of greenhouse gas.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 3 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Reporting

       Greenhouse gas APEN

The Commission removed a duplicative GHG APEN emissions reporting requirement
for sources reporting GHG emissions annually pursuant to Regulation Number 22. In
2022, the Commission adopted requirements for a GHG APEN, as directed by House
Bill (HB) 21-1266. HB 21-1266 also directed the Commission to establish a fee per ton
of GHG emissions sufficient to cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop
and administer stationary sources programs that pertain to GHG emissions, which the
Division primarily implements through its climate programs. This directive was revised
by Senate Bill (SB) 23-016, which allowed the Commission to establish the fee on GHG
as reported in the most recent APEN or as otherwise reported to the Division (e.g.,
pursuant to Regulation Number 7 or Regulation Number 22). Therefore, in 2024, the
Commission adopted a GHG emissions fee structure in Regulation Number 3 to collect
fees on 2022 calendar year emissions as reported in 2024. In that rulemaking, the
Commission removed the duplicative GHG APEN emissions reporting requirement for
sources reporting GHG emissions annually pursuant to Regulation Number 7, Part B,
Section V. The revision now adopted by the Commission similarly removes the
duplicative GHG APEN emissions reporting requirement for Regulation Number 22
reporters.

       Annual emissions reporting and Emissions Reporting Notices



                                                                                      683
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

In April 2025, the Commission adopted new and revised reporting requirements for
certain sources to annually report estimated emissions. These requirements were
adopted in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. for certain non-oil and gas sector
sources and in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. for upstream and midstream oil
and gas sector sources. The revisions expanded toxic air contaminant (TAC) reporting
requirements, under the directive of House Bill (HB) 22-1244, and included annual
emissions reporting of criteria pollutants.

The Commission now adopted revisions to streamline emissions reporting requirements
by specifying that the annual emissions reports required in Regulation Number 3, Part
A, Section IX.A.1.d. and Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. are Emissions
Reporting Notices and will satisfy the requirements to submit revised APENs because of
a significant change in actual emissions (see Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
II.C.1.a.) or solely prior to expiration (see Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
II.C.1.e.). This streamlining will begin in 2027 for the Regulation Number 7, Part B,
Section V. annual emissions reporters for calendar year 2026 emissions. The
Commission does not intend to compel owners or operators to submit such reports
before the deadline established in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. or more than
once during a calendar year, regardless of the deadlines in Regulation Number 3, Part
A, Sections II.C.1.a. or II.C.1.e.

Under § 25-7-114.1(1)(a), C.R.S., a person may not allow the “emission of air pollutants
from, or construction or alteration of, any facility, process, or activity” until an APEN “has
been filed with the Division with respect to such emission.” Neither the State Air Act nor
Regulation Number 3 further define or limit the scope of APEN form(s) the Commission
may require and Emissions Reporting Notices fall within the meaning of APEN under §
25-7-114.1, C.R.S., because they provide the Division notice of emissions of air
pollutants from an existing facility. By creating a separate category of APEN to facilitate
the filing of Emissions Reporting Notices, the Commission also better aligns the annual
emissions reporting and revised APEN regulatory frameworks to facilitate the removal of
duplicative reporting by treating both filings as APENs.

Fees



                                                                                          684
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Colorado’s legislature in §§ 25-7-114.1 and 25-7-114.7, C.R.S., directed the adoption of
a fee structure for APENs, annual emissions, and processing of application materials so
as to cover the indirect and direct costs required to develop and administer the
Division’s stationary source programs established pursuant to Title 25, Article 7. The
revenue generated by the current fees is insufficient to cover program costs primarily
due to expansion of Division programs, initiatives, and services associated with federal
requirements (e.g., SIPs, ozone nonattainment) and State legislation (e.g., air toxics),
but also due in part to increasing costs due to inflation. Therefore, the Commission
adopted an increase to the fees in order to provide an additional step toward
sustainable funding for the Division’s ongoing stationary source programs and services
that the Division is required to provide under existing state and federal requirements.

In addition to increasing fees in the existing fee structure, the Commission adopted a
filing fee for the Emissions Reporting Notice filed pursuant to Regulation 7, Part B,
Section V. on a per emission point basis. The Commission is approving the Emissions
Reporting Notice format and fees for Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. reporters
only at this time because of the Division’s limited access to data for other annual
emissions reporters under Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. While the present
rule applies this new Emissions Reporting Notice format and fee to Regulation Number
7, Part B, Section V. reporters only, the Commission intends for the Division to propose
a rule to transition all annual reporters over to an Emissions Reporting Notice format
with a per emission point filing fee in a subsequent proposed rulemaking.

The Emissions Reporting Notice filing fee for the Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section
V. reporters will begin with the Emissions Reporting Notice filed in 2027 for calendar
year 2026 emissions. However, the Commission understands that the timing of the
annual emissions fee collection and development of the Division’s reporting and billing
system requires that the annual emissions fee on calendar year 2026 emissions be
assessed on emissions as reported on traditional APENs instead of emissions as
reported on an Emissions Reporting Notice. The Commission also understands that the
Division intends to assess annual emissions fees on emissions as reported on an
Emissions Reporting Notice in future years. The Commission intends for the Division to
assess Emissions Reporting Notice filing fees, as well as future annual emissions fees,


                                                                                         685
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

on emission points and emissions that were APEN-reportable, and to strive to begin
billing on Emissions Reporting Notice fees in calendar year 2028 for 2027 emissions, if
practical.

The Commission understands that the Division anticipates this fee increase, while
substantial, will not increase revenue to the level necessary to fully fund the Division’s
direct and indirect stationary source program costs and that the Division intends to
request additional fee increases. The Commission also understands that as part of the
Division’s stationary source program cost evaluations, the Division will continue to work
towards the measures and goals identified in the Statement of Basis and Purpose
adopted by the Commission on April 18, 2025, in Regulation Number 3, Part F, Section
I.KKK regarding fees and efficiency. This continued work will include engaging with fee
payers and other stakeholders, providing detailed information on the Division’s
stationary source program costs, making progress on program and operational
improvements and permitting timelines, and exploring potential opportunities for
alternative funding structures, and non-stationary source funding sources. The
Commission requests that the Division, as part of its annual report on fees to the
Commission and for purposes of transparency, provide information similar to what is
submitted annually to the legislature under § 25-7-114.7, C.R.S., including more detail
regarding the Division’s costs by program.

Increment

The Commission also adopted a revision to the increment provisions under the
prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) program to clarify its intent to maintain the
provision as State-only upon the effective date of EPA action removing the provision
from Colorado’s State Implementation Plan. Regulation Number 3, Part D, Section
X.A.5. was adopted in 1990. When initially adopted in 1990, Section X.A.5. was not
incorporated into the State Implementation Plan as it was determined to be stricter than
federal law. EPA incorrectly included the provision in Colorado’s SIP in 2011 and intends
to correct that error by removing Section X.A.5. from the SIP in the near future. Upon
the effective date of EPA’s removal of the provision from Colorado’s SIP, applicants will
be required to comply with Section X.A.5. on a State-only basis.



                                                                                        686
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Further, these revisions include corrections to any typographical, grammatical, and
formatting errors throughout the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

Section 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the
Commission to incorporate by reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-
103(12.5), C.R.S., are met by including specific information and making the regulations
available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations incorporated
would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission includes reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 3.

Additional Considerations

The revisions to Part A concerning emissions reporting or fees and Part D concerning
increment do not exceed or differ from the requirements of the federal act or rules.
Therefore, the requirements of § 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S., do not apply. The revisions to
Part A concerning emissions reporting or fees are not intended to reduce air pollution
but to the extent that the requirements of § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., apply to the revisions to
Part D, and after considering all of the information in the record, the Commission hereby
makes the determination that:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.


                                                                                       687
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)   The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
      effective manner.




                                                                                        688
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Editor’s Notes
History

Part A rule VI.D, Part F rule I.MM eff. 11/30/2007.

Part E (Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) eff. 03/01/2008.

Entire rule eff. 04/30/2008.

Part F rule IV.B; Part G rule I.PP eff. 06/30/2008.

Part A rule VI.D, Part G rule I.QQ eff. 10/30/2008.

Part A rule II.D, Part B rule II D, Part C rule II E, Part F rule VI.B, Part G rules I.RR, I.SS
       eff. 01/30/2009.

Entire rule eff. 12/15/2010.

Part D rule XIV.F; Part F, Part G rule I.UU eff. 02/14/2011.

Part A rules I.B, II.C, II.D; Part B rules II.D, III.G; Part C rules I.A, II.E, X.A, XII.A; Part D
       rules II.A, III.B, V.A, VI.A, VI.B, VI.D, X.A, XIII.B, XIII.D; Part F rules I, III.A, IV.A,
       VI.B, VI.C, Part G rules I.C, I.VV eff. 12/15/2011.

Part A rules I.A, I.B.7, I.B.14-I.B.16, I.B.28, I.B.31.d, I.B.38, I.B.43, II.D.1.dddd, V.I, VI.A-
       VI.B, Appendix B, Part B rule III.C.1.a, Part C rules I.A.7, XIV, Part D rules I-II,
       V.A.1-V.A.7, VI.A, VI.B, XV, Part F, Part G rule I.WW eff. 02/15/2013.

Part A rules II.B.3.b, II.D.1, II.D.1.b, Appendix A, Part B rules II.A.5, II.D, II.D.1, II.D.1.l,
       II.D.1.n, Part C rule II.E.3.ddd, Part D rule XV.F.5, Part F rules VII.A.3, VII.B.1.a,
       VII.B.1.b, VII.B.1.b.(ii), Part G rule I.XX eff. 04/14/2014.

Part A rules I.B, II.C, V.C, V.I, VI.C, Appendix A, Appendix B, Part B rule III.C, Part C rule
       VI.A-VI.B, XII.B, Part D rules I-II, V-VI, XV, Part G rule I.YY eff. 10/15/2014.

Part F rule VI.A, Part G rule I.YY eff. 01/14/2015.

Part A rule I.B.44.e., Part G rule I.ZZ eff. 03/16/2016.

Part D, rules II.A.22.b, II.A.25.b, II.A.44.a, Part G rule I.AAA eff. 11/30/2016.

Part F rule VI, Part G rule I.BBB eff. 02/14/2017.



                                                                                               689
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                             5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission

Part A rules VI.C.2, VI.D, Part G rule I.CCC eff. 11/30/2018.

Part A rules I.B.12, I.B.47-48, II.A.1-II.A.2, II.D.1.uuu, II.D.1.zzz, Appendix B, Part B
       rules II.A.1, II.B, III.B.2, III.I.2.a, Part C rules II.E.3.yyy, II.E.3.dddd, Part G rule
       I.DDD eff. 02/14/2020. Part A rule II.D.1.lll, Part B rules II.D.1.m, II.D.7, Part C
       rule II.E.3.uu repealed eff. 02/14/2020.

Part A rules I.B.10, I.B.44.b.(i), Part B rules III.C, III.C.1.e, III.C.4, III.D.1, Part C rules
       II.E.3.xxx, III.B.1, III.C.13, VI.B, X.D.6, Part D rules II.A.11.a.(viii), IV, IV.A, IV.A.1,
       IV.A.7, Part F rules I.EEE, I.FFF eff. 02/14/2021. Part F repealed eff. 02/14/2021.

Part A rules I.B.10, I.B.25, I.B.44, II.A.1, II.A.2, II.A.3, II.C.2, II.D.1, VI.D, VI.E, Appendix
       B, Part B rules II.D, II.D.10, III.C.4, Part C, rule VI.B, Part D rules II.A.8, II.A.25,
       II.A.40, II.A.41, Part F rule I.GGG eff. 02/14/2023.

Part A rules I.B.4-I.B.57, II.D.1.g, II.D.1.oo, II.D.1.dddd, V.E.10, VI.B.2, VI.C.1.f, Part B
       rules III.B.4-III.B.7.d, III.C.4, III.D.2, III.G.7.c, III.J, Part C rules II.E, II.E.3,
       II.E.3.a, II.E.3.g, II.E.3.oo, III.B.2, III.C.14-III.C.15, III.D.3, V.C.5.d, XII.A.1, Part D
       rules I.B.2, I.B.4, II.A.4.c, II.A.16, II.A.22.c, II.A.25.f, II.A.31, II.A.38.b.(iv),
       II.A.40.e, XIV.C.3, XV.A.2.d, XV.E.6, XV.F.11, XV.K.2.c, XV.N.1.g, XV.N.2.d, Part
       F rule I.HHH eff. 07/15/2023.

Part A rules II.A.2, V.D.9, V.I.1, VI.C.1, VI.D.3-4, Part F rule I.III eff. 04/15/2024.

Part A rules I.B.52, II.D.1.ccc, V.D.9, V.F.13.e, V.H.6, V.H.7, Part B rules III.B.5-III.B.5.f,
       III.J.1, III.J.3.b, III.J.3.c, Part C rules III.C.14-III.C.14.a(ii)(B), III.D.3, V.C.5.d.(i),
       VII repealed, Part F rule I.JJJ eff. 07/15/2024.

Part A rules VI.D, IX, Appendix C, Part C rule III.C.14.a.(iii), Part F rule I.KKK eff.
       06/14/2025.

Part A I.B.11, I.B.13, I.B.21, I.B.23.f, I.B.50.e, I.B.53.b.(i), II.A.2.b, II.C.1.f, V, V.A-V.I,
       Part B III.B.4, III.B.5.C.(i), III.B.5.d, III.B.5.e.(iii), III.D.2, III.D.2.c, III.D.2.d, III.J.1,
       III.J.2.b, Part C II.E.3.ccc, III.C.14.a.(iii), III.C.15, V.C.5.d, V.C.5.d.(iv), Part D
       V.A.3.d, Part F I.KKK eff. 01/14/2026.

Part A.II.A.1.a, II.A.2, II.A.3, II.B.2, II.B.3.a, II.B.3.b, IIC.1.i, VI.A.1, VI.B.5, VI.D.1-4, Part
       C VI.B, Part D X.A.5, Part F IMMM eff. 07/15/2026.


                                                                                                      690
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-5
Air Quality Control Commission



Annotations

Rule II.A.2.a. (adopted 12/19/2019) was not extended by Senate Bill 21-152 and
therefore expired 05/15/2021.




                                                                                 691
