CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN, SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR NONATTAINMENT-
    ATTAINMENT/MAINTENANCE AREAS (LOCAL ELEMENTS)

    5 CCR 1001-20
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    INTRODUCTION

    A. The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) regulations, adopted in accordance with
           Sections 24-4-103(1) and 25-7-105(1)(a)(II) of the Colorado Revised Statutes, are applicable to
           those areas in which local Elements have been incorporated into the State Implementation Plan
           (SIP). Promulgation of these regulations provides the necessary authority for the Air Pollution
           Control Division to adequately enforce the provisions of the SIP Elements.

    B. Materials incorporated by references in this regulation are available for public inspection during
           regular business hours at the Commission's office at 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, and also at
           any state publications depository library. For more information concerning the incorporated
           materials, persons may contact the Commissions Technical Secretary at the above address. The
           regulation incorporates the materials, as they exist at the date of the promulgation of this
           regulation and does not include later amendments to or editions of the incorporated materials.

    I. Pagosa Springs Attainment/Maintenance Area

    A. Definitions

              1. "Deployment" means an episode where the roadways designated below are sanded.

              2. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-icing
                      chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved areas.

              3. "User" means any governmental entity, and any employee, official, representative, or agent of
                     such governmental entity responsible for the application of street sanding materials and
                     any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying
                     street sanding materials to the designated roadways in the defined Pagosa Springs
                     Attainment/Maintenance area.

              4. "Division" means the Colorado Department of Health, Air Pollution Control Division.

              5. "Governmental Entity" shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the State of Colorado,
                     Archuleta County, Town of Pagosa Springs, and the Colorado Department of
                     Transportation.

              6. "Independent Laboratory" means a facility capable of performing the tests specified in these
                      regulations in a competent, professional, and unbiased manner with no financial, family,
                      or personal connection to the supplier or user of street sanding materials.




    Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                  1
       7. "Percent Fines" means the percent material passing a #200 sieve as determined by the
               American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) "Standard Method for Sieve Analysis of
               Fine and Coarse Aggregates", designation C136-84a (1988) (American Association of
               State Highway and Transportation Officials designation T27-88).

       8. "Recycled Street Sanding Materials" means previously used street sanding material that has
              been collected from roadways or paved areas and is then re-used as is, after washing, or
              after blending with new street sanding material.

       9. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-icing
               chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved areas.

       10. "Base Sanding Amount" is the average amount of street sanding material applied per lane
              mile driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal operations. The base-
              sanding amount shall be calculated using 1988 data. If reliable 1988 data is not
              available, another base year period may be used after approval by the Division.

B. Specifications for Street Sanding Materials

       1. Applicability

               The provisions of this subsection shall apply to any user that applies any street sanding
               material on Highway 160 and Highway 84 within the Pagosa Springs PM-10
               Attainment/Maintenance area on or after December 1, 1993.

       2. Standards for Quality for Street Sanding Materials.

               a. All street sanding material used on the subject portions of Highway 160 and Highway
                        84, whether new or recycled, shall equal or exceed a standard of less than 1%
                        fines as defined in I.A.7. above, and only such sanding material shall be used for
                        street sanding operations and purposes.

               b. Alternative methods for achieving the 1% fines standard described above must be
                       submitted for approval to the Division and the United States Environmental
                       Protection Agency (EPA) prior to ninety (90) days before the method is
                       implemented.

       3. Alternative Sanding Materials.

               Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the Division and
               EPA provided that the impact of such experiments or tests does not contribute
               appreciably to air quality degradation.

       4. Testing and Recordkeeping Requirements.

               a. Prior to, or upon, delivery of street sanding materials, and prior to the use of any
                       recycled street sanding material, suppliers of street sanding materials to be used
                       on the subject portions of Highway 160 and Highway 84 shall have a test
                       performed upon representative samples of the material by an independent
                       laboratory to determine compliance with the standards of quality set forth above
                       at Subsection I.B.2. The test results shall be provided to the purchaser upon
                       delivery.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               2
               b. Alternative percent fines test procedures must be approved by the Division and EPA
                       should they be determined to provide a measure that is equivalent to the test
                       procedures set forth in this regulation.

               c. Each user that uses street sanding materials shall maintain on file all reports received
                      or prepared in accordance with these regulations for a period of two (2) years.
                      All records generated under provisions of this regulation shall be made available
                      for inspection upon request by the Division. The report(s) shall include:

                           i. A copy of all independent tests performed in accordance with Subsection B.4.
                                   above; and

                           ii. The name and address of all suppliers of street sanding material along with a
                                    full description of the location of the supplier's aggregate pit from which
                                    all material was supplied.

       5. Division Audit Authority.

               The Division may enter the storage site of any user of street sanding material covered by
               these regulations at all times reasonable for the purpose of obtaining a sample of
               materials, inspecting the records required by this regulation or as otherwise allowed by
               statute.

C. Reduction in the Amount of Street Sand Applied

       1. Applicability.

               The provisions of this Section shall apply to any governmental entity and any employee,
               official, representative, or agent of such governmental entity responsible for applying
               street sanding material to Highway 160 and Highway 84 in the Pagosa Springs PM-10
               Attainment/Maintenance area. The provisions of this Section shall also apply to any
               person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying street
               sanding material to these roadways.

       2. Requirements.

               a. Each user shall establish and document its base-sanding amount. Documentation of
                      the base-sanding amount shall be submitted to the Division by December 1,
                      1993.

               b. By December 1, 1993, each affected entity shall submit to the Division a plan and
                      implementation schedule describing the methods to be used to reduce the
                      amount of street sanding materials applied by ten (10) percent from the base
                      sanding amount for the 1993/94 and the 1994/95 sanding seasons.

               c. By September 30, 1995, each affected entity shall submit to the Division a plan and
                      implementation schedule describing the methods to be used to reduce the
                      amount of street sanding

               d. Materials applied by fifteen (15) percent from the base sanding amount for the
                      1995/96 sanding season and thereafter.

               e. Beginning December 1, 1993, all measures set forth in the plans described in
                      Sections I.C.2.a.-c. above must be implemented.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                      3
       3. Recordkeeping.

               a. Users of street sanding material covered by Section C.2. of this regulation shall
                      maintain records for 2 years containing the following information for the
                      preceding twelve months or the preceding calendar year:

                       i. the total number of miles driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice
                                removal operations;

                       ii. the total amount of sanding material (both new and recycled), salt, and other
                                 de-icing chemicals used;

                       iii. the number and dates of full deployment episodes; and

                       iv. the number of lane miles typically sanded during each full deployment.

D. Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for Pagosa Springs

       1. March 16, 2000

               The amendments to the "State Implementation Plan Specific Regulations for
               Nonattainment - Attainment/Maintenance Areas” adopted by the Commission establish
               control measures adequate to maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standard
               (NAAQS) for particulate matter less than ten microns in diameter (PM-10) in Telluride and
               Pagosa Springs. The purpose of this rule change is to implement the associated
               changes to the “Ambient Air Quality Standards” for the State of Colorado to redesignate
               Pagosa Springs and Telluride as PM-10 attainment areas.

               The revisions delete 1) obsolete road paving requirements for Pagosa Springs (the
               paving has been completed); 2) eliminate unnecessary street sanding reporting
               requirements for users of street sand in Telluride and Pagosa Springs areas, and 3)
               delete unnecessary mandatory contingency measures in the Telluride and Pagosa
               Springs areas. No additional control measures are needed in these areas to
               demonstrate long-term maintenance of the PM-10 NAAQS.

               Federal Requirements

               Sections 42 USC 7407(d)(3)(E) and 7505a require the State to submit a maintenance
               plan that will provide for maintenance of the standard for ten years in order to redesignate
               areas to attainment. The federal requirements for preparation, adoption and submittal of
               implementation plans, including the maintenance plan, are set out at 40 CFR, Part 51.
               The maintenance plans adopted by the Commission must include the control measures
               necessary to maintain the national standard for PM-10 in Pagosa Springs and Telluride
               for the requisite ten-year period. The Commission has codified the control measures
               necessary to maintain the PM-10 NAAQS in order to comply with requirement of 42 USC
               7410(a)(2)(A) for such measures to be enforceable.

               The regulatory revisions do not include any provisions that are not necessary to maintain
               the NAAQS, or that are otherwise more stringent than requirements of the federal act.

               Statutory Authority

               Specific and general authority to control PM-10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-
               105(1) and 25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               4
               Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

               The control measures in the maintenance plan are calculated to maintain the PM-10
               NAAQS for the requisite ten-year period. The estimates of PM-10 pollution associated
               with sand on streets and roads are based on EPA-approved models and assumptions.
               The Commission believes the EPA-approved model is inaccurate, but federal rules
               require the State to use such model to demonstrate the adequacy of the maintenance
               plan. In spite of the problems with the computer model used to develop the regulation,
               the regulation is based on the most reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound
               scientific methodologies currently available under federal law. All methodologies and
               information made available by interested parties have been considered.

               Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in demonstrable
               reduction in particulate pollution. The record reflects that reducing sand on streets and
               roads will reduce particulate pollution.

               The regulatory revisions adopted by the Commission are the most cost-effective means
               of maintaining the PM-10 NAAQS, and provide flexibility for the regulated community.

               The regulatory alternatives selected by the Commission will maximize the air quality
               benefits of the regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

II. Telluride Attainment/Maintenance Area

A. Implementation of Local Control Strategies

       1. Town of Telluride

               a. The Town of Telluride must implement and enforce Ordinance Number 829, Series
                      1988, as it exists on January 1, 1993. This ordinance will limit future growth in
                      emissions from wood burning fireplaces and stoves and coal burning devices.

       2. San Miguel County

               a. San Miguel County must implement and enforce Resolutions #1986-20, #1990-33,
                      and #1992-27, as they exist on January 1, 1993. These resolutions limit future
                      growth in emissions from wood burning fireplaces and stoves and coal burning
                      devices.

       3. Recordkeeping Requirements

               a. The Town of Telluride and San Miguel County must each retain records for 2 years
                      that describe the implementation, tracking and enforcement of the local control
                      strategies listed in 1.a. and 2.a. above. The reports must include information on
                      permits, inspections, compliance, tracking, and enforcement activities in order to
                      verify that the ordinances and resolutions have been implemented.

B. Street Sanding Requirements

       1. Definitions

               a. "Deployment" means an episode where the roadways designated below are sanded.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               5
               b. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other
                       de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved
                       areas.

               c. "User" means any private or governmental entity, and any employee, official,
                      representative, or agent of such private or governmental entity responsible for
                      the application of street sanding materials and any person who contracts with
                      such private or governmental entity for the purpose of applying street sanding
                      materials to the roadways in the defined Telluride Attainment/Maintenance area.

               d. "Division" means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air
                       Pollution Control Division.

               e. "Independent Laboratory" means a facility capable of performing the tests specified in
                       these regulations in a competent, professional, and unbiased manner with no
                       financial, family, or personal connection to the supplier or user of street sanding
                       materials.

               f. "Percent Fines" means the percent material passing a #200 sieve as determined by
                       the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) "Standard Method for Sieve
                       Analysis of Fine and Coarse Aggregates", designation C136-84a (1988)
                       (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials designation
                       T27-88).

               g. "Recycled Street Sanding Materials" means previously used street sanding material
                      that has been collected from roadways or paved areas and is then re-used as is,
                      after washing, or after blending with new street sanding material.

               h. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other
                       de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved
                       areas.

       2. Specifications for Street Sanding Materials

               a. Applicability

                       The provisions of this subsection shall apply to any user that applies any street
                       sanding material within the Telluride Attainment/Maintenance area.

               b. Standards for Quality for Street Sanding Materials

                       i. Beginning November 1, 1996, all street sanding material used within the
                               Telluride Attainment/Maintenance area, whether new or recycled, shall
                               equal or exceed a standard of less than 2 percent fines as defined in
                               B.1.f above, and only such sanding material shall be used for street
                               sanding operations and purposes.

                       ii. Alternative methods for achieving the 2 percent fines standard described
                                above must be submitted for approval to the Division and the United
                                States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) prior to ninety (90) days
                                before the method is implemented.

               c. Alternative Sanding Materials




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               6
                       Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the
                       Division and EPA provided that the impact of such experiments or tests does not
                       contribute appreciably to air quality degradation.

               d. Testing Requirements

                       i. Prior to, or upon, delivery of street sanding materials, and prior to the use of
                                 any recycled street sanding material, suppliers of street sanding
                                 materials to be used in the Telluride Attainment/Maintenance area shall
                                 have a test performed upon representative samples of the material by an
                                 independent laboratory to determine compliance with the standards of
                                 quality set forth above at Subsection B.2.b. The test results shall be
                                 provided to the purchaser upon delivery.

                       ii. Alternative percent fines test procedures must be approved by the Division
                                and EPA should they be determined to provide a measure that is
                                equivalent to the test procedures set forth in this regulation.

                       iii. Reporting Requirements

                               Each user of street sanding materials in the Telluride
                               Attainment/Maintenance area shall retain records for 2 years for the
                               information described below. All records generated under provisions of
                               this regulation shall be made available for inspection upon request by the
                               Division.

                               (a) A copy of all independent tests performed in accordance with
                                       Subsection B.2.d. above; and

                               (b) The name and address of all suppliers of street sanding material
                                      along with a full description of the location of the supplier's
                                      aggregate pit from which all material was supplied.

               e. Division Audit Authority

                       The Division may enter the storage site of any user of street sanding material
                       covered by these regulations at all times reasonable for the purpose of obtaining
                       a sample of materials, inspecting the records required by this regulation or as
                       otherwise allowed by statute.

C. Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

       1. August 17, 1995 revisions

               This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
               requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for
               adopted or modified regulations.

               Section 172 of the Clean Air Act requires that control measures be adopted as part of
               nonattainment area state implementation plans. The Colorado Attorney General's Office
               has determined that any emission control measure for a nonattainment area must be
               adopted as a State regulation in order for the measure to be enforceable by the State of
               Colorado. Sections 25-7-105 and -109 of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
               Control Act provide the specific statutory authority to adopt these emission control
               regulations.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                             7
               Revisions to the "State Implementation Plan-Specific Regulations for Nonattainment
               Areas (Local Elements) Regulation", applicable to Telluride, requires revision to correct a
               mistake that was made when processing a previous revision that was adopted in October
               1994. In 1994, the AQCC adopted a two percent standard for the amount of fine
               materials in street sand; a one percent standard was inadvertently filed with the Secretary
               of State and published in the Colorado Register. This rendered the October 1994
               regulation unenforceable. The revisions also change the street sand standard's effective
               date from November 1, 1995 to November 1, 1996. This is necessary because all SIP
               revisions must now go to the Colorado legislature for review. To accommodate this
               review, the effective date must be after the 1996 legislative session.

               These emission control measures were developed through a cooperative effort between
               the Town of Telluride, San Miguel County, the Colorado Department of Transportation,
               The Mountain Village Metropolitan District, and the Colorado Air Pollution Control
               Division. The submittal of these revisions to the AQCC demonstrates the commitment
               from local and State governments, and the citizens that they represent, to develop and
               implement control measures which improve the air quality in the metro Denver area and
               which comply with federal requirements.

       2. March 16, 2000

               The amendments to the "State Implementation Plan Specific Regulations for
               Nonattainment - Attainment/Maintenance Areas” adopted by the Commission establish
               control measures adequate to maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standard
               (NAAQS) for particulate matter less than ten microns in diameter (PM-10) in Telluride and
               Pagosa Springs. The purpose of this rule change is to implement the associated
               changes to the “Ambient Air Quality Standards” for the State of Colorado to redesignate
               Pagosa Springs and Telluride as PM-10 attainment areas.

               The revisions delete 1) obsolete road paving requirements for Pagosa Springs (the
               paving has been completed); 2) eliminate unnecessary street sanding reporting
               requirements for users of street sand in Telluride and Pagosa Springs areas, and 3)
               delete unnecessary mandatory contingency measures in the Telluride and Pagosa
               Springs areas. No additional control measures are needed in these areas to
               demonstrate long-term maintenance of the PM-10 NAAQS.

               Federal Requirements

               Sections 42 USC 7407(d)(3)(E) and 7505a require the State to submit a maintenance
               plan that will provide for maintenance of the standard for ten years in order to redesignate
               areas to attainment. The federal requirements for preparation, adoption and submittal of
               implementation plans, including the maintenance plan, are set out at 40 CFR, Part 51.
               The maintenance plans adopted by the Commission must include the control measures
               necessary to maintain the national standard for PM-10 in Pagosa Springs and Telluride
               for the requisite ten-year period. The Commission has codified the control measures
               necessary to maintain the PM-10 NAAQS in order to comply with requirement of 42 USC
               7410(a)(2)(A) for such measures to be enforceable.

               The regulatory revisions do not include any provisions that are not necessary to maintain
               the NAAQS, or that are otherwise more stringent than requirements of the federal act.

               Statutory Authority

               Specific and general authority to control PM-10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-
               105(1) and 25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                             8
                 Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

                 The control measures in the maintenance plan are calculated to maintain the PM-10
                 NAAQS for the requisite ten-year period. The estimates of PM-10 pollution associated
                 with sand on streets and roads are based on EPA-approved models and assumptions.
                 The Commission believes the EPA-approved model is inaccurate, but federal rules
                 require the State to use such model to demonstrate the adequacy of the maintenance
                 plan. In spite of the problems with the computer model used to develop the regulation,
                 the regulation is based on the most reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound
                 scientific methodologies currently available under federal law. All methodologies and
                 information made available by interested parties have been considered.

                 Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule shall result in demonstrable
                 reduction in particulate pollution. The record reflects that reducing sand on streets and
                 roads will reduce particulate pollution.

                 The regulatory revisions adopted by the Commission are the most cost-effective means
                 of maintaining the PM-10 NAAQS, and provide flexibility for the regulated community.

                 The regulatory alternatives selected by the Commission will maximize the air quality
                 benefits of the regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

III. Aspen/Pitkin County PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area

A. Applicability

       The control measures adopted by these regulations are intended to be implemented and
       enforced locally. All affected parties shall take all actions necessary, to implement no later than
       December 10, 1993, all provisions of the regulations set forth herein. The provisions of these
       regulations shall apply throughout the Aspen/Pitkin County PM-10 attainment/maintenance area.
       The control measures adopted by these regulations recognize that the largest source, by far, of
       the material causing the air quality in the City of Aspen to exceed National Ambient Air Quality
       Standards for particulate matter is from re-entrained dust from traffic on paved roads. This
       phenomenon is caused primarily by vehicle mile trips that originate from outside the Aspen/Pitkin
       County attainment/maintenance area.

       Nothing contained in these regulations shall be intended or construed to limit or impair the home
       rule or legislative authority of the City as provided under the Constitution and laws of the State of
       Colorado or the Home Rule Charter of the City of Aspen. Nothing contained in these regulations
       shall be intended or construed to limit or impair the home rule or legislative authority of the
       County of Pitkin as provided under the Constitution and laws of the State of Colorado or the
       Home Rule Charter of Pitkin County. No emission control regulation may be considered a part of
       the Aspen/Pitkin County PM10 attainment/maintenance area control strategy unless and until the
       same has been adopted as part of the State of Colorado's State Implementation Plan pursuant to
       Section 25-7-105(1)(a)(II), C.R.S.

B. Definitions

       1. "Aspen/Pitkin County PM-10 attainment/maintenance area" means that area defined by the
              Colorado State Implementation Plan for PM-10, Aspen Element, adopted November 21,
              1991.

       2. "Department" means the Aspen/Pitkin Environmental Health Department.

       3. "Division" means the Colorado Department of Health, Air Pollution Control Division.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                 9
       4. "Durability Index" means the percent loss of weight as determined using American Society for
              Testing Materials (ASTM) "Standard Test Method for Resistance to Degradation of Small-
              size Coarse Aggregate by Abrasion and Impact in the Los Angeles Machine",
              Designation C131-89.

       5. "Deployment" means an episode when any roadway is sanded.

       6. "Governmental Entity" shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the State of Colorado,
              Pitkin County, City of Aspen, Roaring Fork Transit Agency, the Colorado Department of
              Transportation (CDOT), and the U.S. Postal Administration.

       7. Reserved

       8. "Independent Laboratory" means a facility capable of performing the tests specified in these
               regulations in a competent, professional, and unbiased manner with no financial, family,
               or personal connection to the supplier or user of street sanding materials.

       9. "Percent Fines" means the percent material passing a #200 sieve as determined by the
               American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) "Standard Method for Sieve Analysis of
               Fine and Coarse Aggregates", designation C136-84a (1988) (American Association of
               State Highway and Transportation Officials designation T27-88).

       10. "Recycled Street Sanding Materials" means previously used street sanding material that has
              been collected from roadways or paved areas and is then re-used as is, after washing, or
              after blending with new street sanding material.

       11. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-
               icing chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved areas.

       12. "User" means any Governmental Entity, and any employee, official, representative, or agent
              of such governmental entity responsible for the application of street sanding materials
              and any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying
              street sanding material in the defined Aspen/Pitkin County PM-10
              attainment/maintenance area.

       13. Reserved

       14. "Base Sanding Amount" is the average amount of street sanding material applied per lane
              mile driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal operations. The base
              sanding amount shall be calculated for the year that the Environmental Protection
              Agency (EPA) determines that the nonattainment area failed to attain the PM National
              Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). If reliable data for this year is not available,
              another base year period may be used after approval by the Division.

C. Primary Control Strategy Regulations

       1. Specifications for Street Sanding Materials

               a. Applicability.

                       The provisions of this subsection shall apply to any user that applies any street
                       sanding material within the Aspen/Pitkin County PM-10 attainment/maintenance
                       area on or after December 1, 1993.

               b. Standards for Quality for Street Sanding Materials.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                            10
                       All street sanding material, whether new or recycled, shall equal or exceed a
                       standard of less than 1% fines and less than 30% durability index, and only such
                       sanding material shall be used for street sanding operations and purposes.

               c. Alternate Sanding Materials.

                       Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the
                       Division and the EPA provided that the impact of such experiments or tests does
                       not contribute appreciably to air quality degradation.

               d. Testing Requirements.

                       Prior to, or upon, delivery of street sanding materials, and prior to the use of any
                       recycled street sanding material, suppliers of street sanding materials shall have
                       a test performed upon representative samples of the material by an independent
                       laboratory to determine compliance with the standards of quality set forth above
                       at Subsection C.1.b. The test results shall be provided to the purchaser upon
                       delivery. Alternative percent fines and durability index test procedures for
                       percent fines and durability must be approved by the Division and EPA should
                       they be determined to provide a measure that is equivalent to the test procedures
                       set forth in this regulation.

               e. Recordkeeping Requirements

                       i. Each user that uses street sanding materials shall maintain on file all reports
                               received or prepared in accordance with these regulations for a period of
                               two years, including the information described below. All records
                               generated under provisions of this regulation shall be made available for
                               inspection upon request by the Department or Division.

                                  (a) The number of lane miles typically sanded during each deployment;

                                  (b) The dates of deployment episodes;

                                  (c) A list of all streets where sanding was typically deployed;

                                  (d) A copy of all independent tests performed in accordance with
                                          Subsection C.1.d. above; and

                                  (e) The name and address of all suppliers of street sanding material
                                         along with a full description of the location of the supplier's
                                         aggregate pit from which all material was supplied.

       2. Street Sweeping Requirements for Highway 82

               a. Applicability

                       The provisions of this subsection shall apply to any user that has applied any
                       street sanding material on Highway 82 within the Aspen/Pitkin County PM-10
                       attainment/maintenance area on or after December 1, 1993. The provisions of
                       this subsection shall be applicable between December 1 and March 31 of each
                       year.

               b. Sweeping Requirements




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               11
                      i. Users that use street sanding materials upon State Highway 82 from the
                              Cooper Avenue bridge to the west entrance (city limit) of the city of
                              Aspen, excluding CDOT, shall sweep the traffic lanes of this portion of
                              Highway 82 within four days of the roadway becoming free and clear of
                              snow and ice following each sanding deployment, as weather and street
                              conditions permit.

                      ii. Users that use street sanding materials upon State Highway 82 from the west
                              entrance (city limit) of the city of Aspen to the Aspen/Pitkin County
                              Airport (Sardy Field) shall sweep traffic lanes of the highway within four
                              days of the roadway becoming free and clear of snow and ice following
                              each sanding deployment, as weather and street conditions permit.

               c. Sweeping Equipment Required

                      Broom sweepers using liquid, or any other method of equal efficiency approved
                      by the Division and EPA must be utilized to sweep the specified streets and
                      roadways set forth above at Subsection b.

               d. Recordkeeping Requirements

                      Operators of street sweeping equipment working for users of street sanding
                      materials shall maintain records to document the information described below
                      and governmental entities shall maintain on file all reports received or prepared
                      in accordance with these regulations for a period of two years. All records
                      generated under provisions of this regulation shall be made available for
                      inspection upon request by the Division.

                      i. Date of sweeping operation;

                      ii. Miles and names of streets or roadways swept;

                      iii. Type of equipment used;

                      iv. Reserved

                      v. Equipment malfunctions and downtime, if any;

                      vi. Conditions of driving lanes (dry, wet, snow packed, patchy ice, etc.); and

                      vii. General weather conditions at time of sweeping operations.

       3. Commercial Core Paid Parking, Commuter Day Pass Parking, and Resident Only Permit
             Parking in Outlying Areas.

               a. Beginning June 1, 1994, within an area of the City of Aspen bounded by and including
                      Main Street, Spring Street, Durant Avenue, and Monarch Street, the City of
                      Aspen shall permit all passenger vehicles to park only upon the payment of at
                      least one dollar ($1.00) per hour parking fee.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                           12
               b. Beginning June 1, 1994, within an area bounded by and including Aspen Mountain,
                      Fourth Street, Hallam Street, Second Street, Francis Street, the bluff south of the
                      Post Office, Spring Street, the Roaring Fork River, Aspen Mountain and Durant
                      Street, and Dean Street, the City of Aspen shall permit parking for those who
                      display resident parking permits and for those commuters who have purchased
                      an all day parking pass.

       4. Implementation of Local Control Strategies

               a. City of Aspen

                       The City of Aspen shall implement and enforce Ordinance Number 74, Series of
                       1992, as amended by Ordinance Number 47, Series of 1993, as it exists on
                       September 24, 1993. This ordinance limits future growth in emissions from wood
                       burning fireplaces, stoves and restaurant grills. In addition, the City of Aspen
                       shall implement and enforce any ordinance adopted in accordance with these
                       regulations.

                       The City of Aspen may revise the ordinances as necessary to allow greater use
                       of natural gas burning devices without revising the state implementation plan.
                       Any revision to the ordinances to allow greater use of woodburning devices shall
                       be submitted immediately to the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission and
                       EPA as revisions to the State Implementation Plan. Any amendments to these
                       ordinances shall not constitute a revision to the State Implementation Plan until
                       such time as the State Implementation Plan is appropriately revised. All
                       ordinances shall remain in full force and effect until such time as the City obtains
                       full approval of a State Implementation Plan revision.

               b. Pitkin County

                       Pitkin County shall implement and enforce Ordinance Number 18, Series of
                       1992, as it exists on January 1, 1993. This ordinance limits future growth in
                       emissions from wood burning fireplaces, stoves and restaurant grills. In addition,
                       Pitkin County shall adopt and enforce any resolutions adopted in accordance
                       with these regulations.

                       Pitkin County may revise the ordinances as necessary to allow greater use of
                       natural gas burning devices without revising the state implementation plan. Any
                       revision to the ordinances to allow greater use of woodburning devices shall be
                       submitted immediately to the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission and the
                       EPA as revisions to the State Implementation Plan. Any amendments to these
                       resolutions shall not constitute a revision to the State Implementation Plan until
                       such time as the State Implementation Plan is appropriately revised. Resolution
                       Number 18, Series 1992, shall remain in full force and effect until such time as
                       the County obtains full approval of a State Implementation Plan revision.

               c. Recordkeeping Requirements

                       The City and County shall maintain records for a period of two years that
                       document compliance and enforcement activities in order to verify that the
                       ordinances and resolutions have been properly implemented.

D. Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

       Maintenance Plan for Aspen/Pitkin County area




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                            13
       Adopted: January 11, 2001

       The amendments to the "State Implementation Plan-Specific Regulation for Nonattainment
       Areas” implement a maintenance plan and associated changes to the “Ambient Air Quality
       Standards for the State of Colorado” to redesignate Aspen/Pitkin County as a PM10 attainment
       area.

       The revisions delete several control measures that were included in the EPA-approved State
       Implementation Plan for the Aspen/Pitkin County area, but which are no longer necessary to
       maintain the national ambient air quality standard for PM10. The repealed control measures
       include transit measures, voluntary programs, and additional control measures for Presidents
       Day, and obsolete reporting requirements. In addition, the rule revision repeals the mandatory
       contingency measures for the Aspen/Pitkin County area. Federal law does not require the
       maintenance plan to include such contingency measures.

       Federal Requirements

       Sections 42 USC 7407(d)(3)(E) and 7505a require the State to submit a maintenance plan that
       will provide for maintenance of the standard for ten years in order to redesignate areas to
       attainment. The federal requirements for preparation, adoption and submittal of implementation
       plans, including the maintenance plan, are set out at 40 CFR, Part 51. The maintenance plans
       adopted by the Commission must include the control measures necessary to maintain the
       national standard for PM10 in the Aspen area for the requisite ten-year period. The Commission
       has codified the control measures necessary to maintain the PM10 NAAQS in order comply with
       requirement of 42 USC 7410(a)(2)(A) for such measures to be enforceable.

       The regulatory revisions do not include any provisions that are not necessary to maintain the
       NAAQS, or that are otherwise more stringent than requirements of the federal act.

       Statutory Authority

       Specific and general authority to control PM10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-105(1) and
       25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).

       Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

       The control measures in the maintenance plan are calculated to maintain the PM10 NAAQS
       through 2015. The estimates of PM10 pollution associated with sand on streets and roads are
       based on EPA-approved models and assumptions. The Commission believes the EPA-approved
       model is inaccurate, but federal rules require the State to use such model to demonstrate the
       adequacy of the maintenance plan. Thus, the rule revision is based on the only methodology
       authorized for use by federal law. All methodologies and information made available by
       interested parties have been considered.

       The regulatory revisions adopted by the Commission are the most cost-effective means of
       maintaining the PM10 NAAQS, and provide flexibility for the regulated community.

       The regulatory alternatives selected by the Commission will maximize the air quality benefits of
       the regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

IV. Lamar Attainment/Maintenance Area

       Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose; Adopted: November 15, 2001




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                              14
       The November 15, 2001 amendments repeal the contingency measures for the Lamar area,
       which measures are no longer required by federal law because the area is being redesignated to
       an attainment area for particulate matter. Nothing in this rule change exceeds the minimum
       requirements of the federal act.

       Statutory Authority

       Specific and general authority to control PM-10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-105(1) and
       25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).

V. Canon City Nonattainment Area - PM-10

       Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose; Adopted: November 20, 2008

       The November 20, 2008 amendments repeal the contingency measures for the Canon City
       area, which measures are no longer required by federal law because the area was redesignated
       to an attainment area for particulate matter in July of 2001 and shows continued maintenance of
       the standard through 2020. Nothing in this rule change exceeds the minimum requirements of
       the federal act.

       Statutory Authority

       Specific and general authority to control PM-10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-105(1) and
       25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).

VI. City of Fort Collins CO Repealed

A. STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

       Adopted: July 18, 2002

       The July 18, 2002 amendments repeal the contingency measures for the Fort Collins area, which
       measures are no longer required by Federal law because the area is being redesignated to
       attainment/maintenance status for carbon monoxide. Nothing in this rule change exceeds the
       minimum requirements of the federal act. Specific and general authority to control carbon
       monoxide emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-105(1) and 25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S.

VII. Colorado Springs Attainment/Maintenance Area

A. Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

       Adopted: November 15, 2001

       The amendments to the “State Implementation Plan Specific Regulations for Nonattainment
       Areas (Local Elements)” adopted by the Commission eliminate a contingency measure for
       Colorado Springs that was adopted as part of the nonattainment State Implementation Plan (SIP).
       Colorado Springs has since been redesignated to attainment/maintenance, and this contingency
       measure is no longer necessary or federally required. The amendments also revise the title of
       the regulation to "State Implementation Plan Specific Regulations for Nonattainment -
       Attainment/Maintenance Areas (Local Elements).”

       Federal Requirements




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                          15
       The federal requirements for nonattainment SIP contingency measures are set out in Section
       172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act (CAA). In November 1993, the Commission adopted a contingency
       measure for the Colorado Springs carbon monoxide (CO) nonattainment area that required the
       implementation of an enhanced inspection and maintenance program if the area failed to attain
       the CO National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). EPA approved this contingency
       measure in December 1997.

       There are no requirements in federal law or regulation for mandatory contingency measures in
       redesignated areas. EPA redesignated the Colorado Springs area in August 1999, and the
       approved maintenance plan lists enhanced I/M as a potential contingency measure should the
       area ever violate the CO NAAQS in the future (in compliance with the contingency plan
       requirements of CAA Section 175A(d)). Because the mandatory enhanced I/M program
       contingency measure is no longer required, the requirements are being removed from State
       regulation and from the EPA-approved SIP.

       The regulatory revisions do not include any provisions that are not required by provisions of the
       federal act or that are otherwise more stringent than requirements of the federal act.

       Statutory Authority

       The authority to remove the contingency measure from regulation is included in the general
       authority to adopt a State Implementation Plan set out in Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S. (1999).

       Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8

       The revisions to the SIP-Specific Regulations... will maximize the air quality benefits of the
       Commission’s regulations in the most cost-effective manner. Removal of the enhanced I/M
       contingency measure from the regulation eliminates an obsolete federal requirement and
       prevents the automatic implementation of enhanced I/M in the Colorado Springs area if a CO
       NAAQS violation occurs in the future.

VIII. Steamboat Springs PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area

A. Definitions

       1. "Deployment" means an episode where the roadways designated below are sanded.

       2. "Street Sanding Materials" means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-icing
               chemicals, used to provide increased traction on roadways or paved areas.

       3. "User" means any governmental entity, and any employee, official, representative, or agent of
              such governmental entity responsible for the application of street sanding materials and
              any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying
              street sanding materials to the designated roadways in the defined Steamboat Springs
              PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area.

       4. "Division" means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air Pollution
               Control Division.

       5. "Governmental Entity" shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the State of Colorado,
              Routt County, the City of Steamboat Springs, and the Colorado Department of
              Transportation.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                               16
       3. "Independent Laboratory" means a facility capable of performing the tests specified in these
               regulations in a competent, professional, and unbiased manner with no financial, family,
               or personal connection to the supplier or user of street sanding materials.

       4. "Percent Fines" means the percent material passing a #200 sieve as determined by the
               American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) "Standard Method for Sieve Analysis of
               Fine and Coarse Aggregates", designation C136-84a (1988) (American Association of
               State Highway and Transportation Officials designation T27-88).

       5. Reserved

B. Specifications for Street Sanding Materials

       1. Applicability

               The provisions of this subsection shall apply to any user that applies any street sanding
               material within the Steamboat Springs PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area, except for
               U.S. Highway 40 from the junction of U.S. Highway 131 towards Rabbit Ears Pass.

       2. Standards for Quality for Street Sanding Materials

               a. All street sanding material used in the Steamboat Springs PM10
                        Attainment/Maintenance Area shall contain 2% or less fines as defined in
                        VIII.A.7. above, and only such sanding material shall be used for street sanding
                        operations and purposes.

               b. Alternative methods for achieving the 2% fines standard described above must be
                       submitted for approval to the Division and the EPA prior to ninety (90) days
                       before the method is implemented.

       3. Alternative Sanding Materials

               Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the Division and
               the EPA provided that the impact of such experiments or tests does not contribute
               appreciably to air quality degradation.

       4. Testing Requirements

               a. Prior delivery of street sanding materials, suppliers of street sanding materials to be
                       used in the Steamboat Springs PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area shall have a
                       test performed upon representative samples of the material by an independent
                       laboratory to determine compliance with the standards of quality set forth above
                       at Subsection VIII.B.2. The test results shall be provided to the purchaser upon
                       delivery.

               b. Alternative percent fines test procedures must be approved by the Division and the
                       EPA. Any such alternative test procedure will only be approved if they provide a
                       measure that is equivalent to the test procedures set forth in this regulation.

       5. Recordkeeping Requirements

               Each user that uses street sanding materials shall maintain on file for a period of two (2)
               years the information described below. All records generated under provisions of this
               regulation shall be made available for inspection upon request by the Division.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                             17
               c. A copy of all independent tests performed in accordance with Subsection B.4. above;
                      and

               d. The name and address of all suppliers of street sanding material along with a full
                      description of the location of the supplier's aggregate pit from which all material
                      was supplied.

       6. Division Audit Authority

               The Division may enter the storage site of any user of street sanding material covered by
               these regulations at all times reasonable for the purpose of obtaining a sample of
               materials, inspecting the records required by this regulation or as otherwise allowed by
               statute.

C. Reserved

D. Street Sweeping Requirements for Lincoln Avenue

       1. Applicability

               The sweeping provisions of this subsection shall apply to the City of Steamboat Springs.
               The provisions of this subsection shall be applicable between December 1 and March 31
               of each year.

       2. Sweeping Requirements

               The City of Steamboat Springs shall sweep the traffic lanes of Lincoln Avenue from 13th
               Street to Old Fish Creek Falls Road at least once each day after the roadway becomes
               free and clear of snow and ice following each sanding deployment, as weather and street
               conditions permit, until the City has swept the lanes at least two times.

       3. Sweeping Equipment Required

               Vacuum sweepers, or any other method of equal efficiency approved by the Division and
               the EPA, must be utilized to sweep Lincoln Avenue as set forth above at Section D.2.

       4. Recordkeeping Requirements

               The City of Steamboat Springs shall maintain records for a period of two (2) years to
               document the information described below. All records generated under provisions of
               this regulation shall be made available for inspection upon request by the Division.

               a. Date of sweeping operation;

               b. Specific segments of Lincoln Avenue swept;

               c. Type of equipment used;

               d. Equipment malfunctions and downtime, if any;

               e. Conditions of traffic lanes (dry, wet, snow packed, patchy ice, etc.); and

               f. General weather conditions at time of sweeping operations.

E. Implementation of Local Control Strategies




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                18
       1. City of Steamboat Springs

               The City of Steamboat Springs shall implement and enforce Ordinance Number 1191
               (1991), Ordinance Number 1148 (1990), Ordinance Number 1045 (1988), and Ordinance
               Number 977 (1987), as they exist on February 1, 1995. A copy of each ordinance is
               included in Appendix A to this regulation. These ordinances limit the number and type of
               solid fuel burning devices. In addition, the City of Steamboat Springs shall implement
               and enforce any ordinance in accordance with these regulations.

               These ordinances may be amended in the sole discretion of the City Council of the City
               of Steamboat Springs, provided that they shall be submitted immediately to the Colorado
               Air Quality Control Commission and the EPA as revisions to the State Implementation
               Plan. Any amendments to these ordinances shall not constitute a revision to the State
               Implementation Plan until such time as the State Implementation Plan is appropriately
               revised. These ordinances shall remain in full force and effect until such time as the City
               obtains full approval of a State Implementation Plan revision.

       2. Routt County

               Routt County shall implement and enforce Resolution Number 91-032 (1991), as it exists
               on February 1, 1995. A copy of this resolution is included in Appendix A to this
               regulation. This resolution limits the number and type of solid fuel burning devices. In
               addition, Routt County shall adopt and enforce any resolutions adopted in accordance
               with these regulations.

               This resolution may be amended in the sole discretion of the Board of County
               Commissioners, provided that they shall be submitted immediately to the Colorado Air
               Quality Control Commission and the EPA as revisions to the State Implementation Plan.
               Any amendments to this resolution shall not constitute a revision to the State
               Implementation Plan until such time as the State Implementation Plan is appropriately
               revised. Resolution Number 91-032 (1991) shall remain in full force and effect until such
               time as the County obtains full approval of a State Implementation Plan revision.

       3. Recordkeeping Requirements

               The City and County shall maintain records for a period of two (2) years that document
               compliance and enforcement activities in order to verify that the ordinances and
               resolutions have been properly implemented.

F. Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for Steamboat Springs

       November 15, 2001 Revisions

       The November 15, 2001 amendments repeal the contingency measures for the Steamboat
       Springs area, which measures are no longer required by federal law because the area is being
       redesignated to an attainment area for particulate matter. Additionally, the rule change eliminates
       the 10% street sand reduction requirements for State highways and reduces the Lincoln Avenue
       street sweeping requirements from 4 times to 2 times after each sanding event . The more
       stringent requirements are no longer needed for demonstrating long-term attainment of the PM10
       NAAQS. The rule change also repeals unnecessary reporting requirements. The reporting
       requirements have not proved useful in determining compliance with the regulation (reports have
       not always been submitted to the Division nor always requested/reviewed by the Division). Thus,
       the recordkeeping requirements and the Division audit authority have been determined as
       adequate for ensuring compliance with the regulation. Nothing in this rule change exceeds the
       minimum requirements of the federal act.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                            19
       Statutory Authority

       Specific and general authority to control PM-10 emissions is set out at Sections 25-7-105(1) and
       25-7-109(1) and (2), C.R.S. (1999).

       September 21, 1995 Revisions

       This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements
       of the Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. 1973, Section 24-4-103(4) for adopted or modified
       regulations.

       Section 172 of the Clean Air Act requires that control measures be adopted as part of
       nonattainment area state implementation plans. The Colorado Attorney Generals Office has
       determined that any emission control measure for a nonattainment area must be adopted as a s
       state regulation in order for the measure to be enforceable by the State of Colorado. Sections
       25-7-105 and -109 of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provide the specific
       statutory authority to adopt these emission control regulations.

       Revisions to this regulation applicable to Steamboat Springs, will result in PM10 emission
       reductions from woodburning and paved roads, and are described as follows:

       1. Implementation of city and county woodburning restrictions;

       2. Specifications for street sanding materials throughout the nonattainment area;

       3. Reductions in the amount of street sand applied on state highways; and

       4. Street sweeping/cleaning by the city on Lincoln Avenue in central Steamboat Springs.

       These emission control measures were developed through a cooperative effort between the City
       of Steamboat Springs, Routt County, the Colorado Department of Transportation and the
       Colorado Air Pollution Control Division. The submittal of these revisions to the Commission
       demonstrates the commitment from local and state governments and the citizens that they
       represent, to develop and implement control measures which improve the air quality in
       Steamboat Springs and which comply with federal requirements.

       October 17, 1996 Revisions

       This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
       requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103 C.R.S. and the Colorado Air
       Pollution Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

       Basis

       Section 172 of the federal Clean Air Act requires that control measures and contingency
       measures be adopted as part of nonattainment area state implementation plans. The Colorado
       Attorney General's Office has determined that any emission control measure for a nonattainment
       area must be adopted as a State regulation in order for the measure to be enforceable by the
       State of Colorado.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                          20
       The Steamboat Springs area is designated as nonattainment for fine particulate matter (PM-10).
       In the Steamboat Springs State Implementation Plan (SIP) Element (September 1995), the State
       of Colorado committed to adopt additional control measures that allow the area to demonstrate
       continued maintenance of the PM-10 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), and
       contingency measures that could be implemented in the future if the area fails to attain the PM-10
       NAAQS by the required date. The State Implementation Plan-Specific Regulations for
       Nonattainment Areas has been revised to include these measures. Also, the Ambient Air Quality
       Standards for the State of Colorado regulation has been revised to reflect the correct name of the
       nonattainment area and to include emission budgets that are utilized in transportation planning
       efforts.

       Authority

       General authority for revising the Ambient Air Quality Standards... to change the name of the
       nonattainment area and to adopt the emission budgets is contained in the Colorado Air Pollution
       Prevention and Control Act, Section 25-7-105 (1). General and specific authorities for revising
       the SIP-Specific Regulations... to adopt the emission control measures and the contingency
       measures are contained in Sections 25-7-105 (1) , 25-7-106(1)(c), and 25-7-109(1) and (2).

       Purpose

       Administrative changes to the Ambient Air Quality Standards... regulation are as follows:

       1. Revise the name of the nonattainment area from “Routt County” to “Steamboat Springs” ,
              making the regulation consistent with the Steamboat Springs PM-10 SIP Element; and

       2. Establish PM-10 mobile source emission budgets for Steamboat Springs modeling area for the
              periods “1999-2001" and “2002 and Beyond” for use in making transportation conformity
              determinations.

       Paved road dust is a primary source of PM-10 emissions in the Steamboat Springs nonattainment
       area. Revisions to the SIP-Specific Regulations... to control paved road dust are as follows:

       1. The previously adopted “one percent” specification for fine materials contained in street sand
              is changed to “two percent” . This change was originally requested by the City of
              Steamboat Springs in order to provide the City with the maximum flexibility for providing
              safe streets during winter driving conditions. This revision will increase PM-10 emissions,
              but the increase is more than offset by the street sweeping activities described below.

       2. In order to show continued attainment and maintenance of the PM-10 National Ambient Air
               Quality Standards (NAAQS), the City of Steamboat Springs must increase the frequency
               of street sweeping on Lincoln Avenue. Sweeping must occur at least once each day
               following each street sanding deployment (weather and road conditions permitting) until
               the City has swept Lincoln Avenue at least four times, instead of once after each sanding
               deployment as previously required. The City requested this increase in sweeping
               frequency in order to compensate for increased emissions that resulted from changing
               the street sand specification, and to provide emission reductions necessary to
               demonstrate continued maintenance with the PM-10 NAAQS.

       3. Within two months following a determination that the Steamboat Springs nonattainment area
               has failed to attain the PM-10 NAAQS or show reasonable further progress, the City must
               sweep additional sections of Lincoln Avenue and all other City streets within a defined
               area of central Steamboat Springs within four days following each street sanding
               deployment (weather and road conditions permitting). This sweeping constitutes the
               federally-required contingency measures for the Steamboat Springs nonattainment area.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                          21
          Findings

          The Air Quality Control Commission makes the following findings pursuant to C.R.S., Section 25-
          7-110.8(1).

          First, the rule revisions are based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound
          scientific methodologies. The emission inventories that establish the emission budgets, and the
          monitoring, inventories, and dispersion modeling that indicate the need for control measures and
          their effectiveness in reducing PM-10 emissions, were developed/performed in accordance with
          published guidance from EPA. Monitoring activities in Steamboat Springs are conducted in
          compliance with the EPA regulations of 40 CFR Part 58. Emission inventories were developed
          in accordance with EPA guidance found in “AP-42", the “SIP Development Guideline Document” ,
          and the “Control of Open Fugitive Dust” document. Dispersion modeling using the “WYNDvalley”
          model was performed in accordance with EPA’s “SupplementB to the Guideline on Air Quality
          Models” .

          Second, the street sweeping revisions to the SIP-Specific Regulations... shall result in a
          demonstrable reduction in air pollution due to the removal of street sand and background paved
          road dust from the streets. The amount of reductions relied upon in the SIP Element’s attainment
          demonstration are supported by the EPA guidance documents cited above. The emission
          budgets in the Ambient Air Quality Standards... regulation will result in PM-10 emission
          reductions in the area by limiting growth from the mobile sources sector to 2002 levels (for the
          purposes of “transportation conformity” determinations - federal transportation conformity
          regulations of 40 CFR Subpart T). As a result, federally funded or approved projects will have to
          offset any additional growth in mobile source emissions.

          Third, street sweeping is cost-effective in this case because the City is already conducting some
          of the sweeping in this rule. Other alternatives, such as alternative deicers and sand reduction
          plans, were not considered viable because of concerns about public safety during winter driving
          conditions. The potentially lower cost alternative of one percent fines was not adopted because
          the City of Steamboat Springs preferred this control measure.

          Therefore, it is assumed that the street sweeping controls and the emission budget are the most
          cost effective alternative, and the rule revisions maximize air quality benefits in the most cost
          effective manner.

          Federal Requirements

          The adoption of control measures, contingency measures, and emission budgets are required by
          federal regulations, and the federal regulations allow the State flexibility in determining what the
          measures and budgets should be. These measures and budgets will be submitted to the EPA as
          a SIP revision. The rule amendments are not otherwise more stringent than the requirements of
          the federal Act.

_________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History

Rule V. and correction of minor typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the entire
rule eff. 12/30/2008.




Code of Colorado Regulations                                                                                22
