CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    Department of Public Health and Environment

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 28 BUILDING BENCHMARKING AND PERFORMANCE
    STANDARDS

    5 CCR 1001-32

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A         Applicability and General Provisions

    PART B         Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements

    PART C         Building Performance Standards and Compliance Pathways

    PART D         Recordkeeping

    PART E         Penalties

    PART F         Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated
    by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
    may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the
    Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. Some
    material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
    Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
    reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
    later amendments.

    PART A         Applicability and General Provisions

    I.     Purpose

           I.A.    This regulation establishes energy-use benchmarking data reporting and
                   building performance requirements for owners of existing and new
                   covered buildings in order to meet greenhouse-gas emission reductions
                   goals for such buildings under 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A)-(B), C.R.S. (2022).

    II.    Applicability

           II.A.   This regulation applies to owners of covered buildings, as defined in
                   Section IlI.O.




                                                                                              1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


       II.B.   The owner of a public building must only comply with the building
               performance standards in Part C for that covered building upon
               completion of any construction or renovation project that has an estimated
               cost of at least $500,000 and impacts at least twenty-five percent (25%) of
               the covered building’s square footage, excluding upgrades such as
               painting, flooring, or tenant finishes that do not impact energy use.

III.   Definitions

       III.A. “Affordable housing” means (I) for a household residing in housing on a
              rental basis, annual income of the household is at or below eighty percent
              of the area median income of households of that size in the county in
              which the housing is located; (II) for a household residing in housing on a
              home ownership basis, annual income of the household is at or below one
              hundred forty percent of the area median income of households of that
              size in the county in which the housing is located; or (III) housing that
              incorporates mixed-income development.

       III.B. “Aggregated data” means electric or gas utility customer data, alone or in
              combination with non-customer data, resulting from processing (e.g.,
              average of a group of customers) and/or the compilation of customer data
              of one or more customers from which all unique identifiers and personal
              information has been removed.

       III.C. “Aggregation threshold” means, for each qualifying utility, the minimum
              number of customer accounts associated with a covered building for which
              the qualifying utility may provide the owner of the covered building with
              aggregated data upon request without requiring each customer's consent
              to have the customer's energy-use data accessed or shared.

       III.D. “Agricultural purpose” means a building or structure used to house farm
              implements, hay, unprocessed grain, poultry, livestock, or other
              agricultural products. For the purpose of this definition, this building or
              structure must not contain habitable space or a place of employment
              where agricultural products are processed or treated or packaged; nor is it
              a place used by the public. The gross floor area of a building or structure
              used for an agricultural purpose must include all space within the building
              or structure to determine if the building or structure meets the covered
              building exemption Section III.O.2.

       III.E. “Agricultural product” means any agricultural, horticultural, viticultural, or
              vegetable products or poultry or poultry products grown or produced in
              Colorado. Agricultural products do not include “regulated marijuana” as
              defined by Colorado’s Marijuana Enforcement Division in 1 CCR 212-3
              (2022).




                                                                                               2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.F. “Benchmarking” means to input benchmarking data into a benchmarking
           tool to measure and assess the energy performance and greenhouse gas
           pollution for a covered building for the reporting year.

    III.G. “Benchmarking data” means the information related to a covered building
           that is input into or calculated by a benchmarking tool.

    III.H. “Benchmarking tool” means the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager or a
           successor online resource used to track and assess the performance of
           certain properties relative to similar properties.

    III.I.   “Beneficial electrification” means converting the energy source of a
             customer’s end use from a nonelectric fuel source to a high-efficiency
             electric source, or avoiding the use of nonelectric fuel sources in new
             construction or industrial applications, if the result of the conversion or
             avoidance is to

             III.I.1. Reduce net greenhouse gas emissions over the lifetime of the
                      conversion or avoidance; and

             III.I.2. Reduce societal costs or provide for more efficient utilization of grid
                      resources.

             III.I.3. Beneficial electrification does not include

                    III.I.3.a.     Retail distributed generation; or

                    III.I.3.b.     A renewable energy storage system.

    III.J.   “Biomedical research laboratory” means a scientific laboratory used to
             conduct research relating to both biology and medicine.

    III.K. “Building owner” means a person possessing title to a building or property
           or the person’s designated agent.

    III.L.   “Building performance standards” (BPS) means standards a covered
             building must meet to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction requirements
             under 25-7-142(8)(a)(II), C.R.S. (2022).

    III.M. “Campus” means a collection of two or more buildings that are owned and
           operated by the same person and that have a shared purpose and
           function as a single property. Campus includes two or more of the
           buildings that comprise the capitol complex.

    III.N. “CEO” means the Colorado Energy Office.




                                                                                            3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.O. “Covered building” means a building comprising a gross floor area of fifty
           thousand (50,000) square feet or more that is occupied by a single
           occupant or a group of tenants. Covered building does not include

           III.O.1.       Covered buildings that are a storage facility, stand-alone
                   parking garage, or an airplane hangar that lacks heating and
                   cooling;

           III.O.2.         A building in which more than half of the gross floor area is
                   used for manufacturing or industrial purposes as defined in Section
                   III.; or

           III.O.3.      A single-family home, duplex, or triplex.

           III.O.4.       An agricultural building, defined as a building or structure
                   used to house agricultural implements (including agricultural
                   equipment as described in 39-3-122, C.R.S. (2025) but not
                   including implements that are primarily for rent or sale), hay,
                   unprocessed grain, poultry, livestock, or other agricultural products
                   or inputs primarily for the purpose of maintaining or operating an
                   agricultural process.

    III.P. “Customer-owned retail distributed generation system” means retail
           distributed generation or a renewable energy storage system owned or
           controlled by a covered building owner.

    III.Q. “Data center” means buildings specifically designed and equipped to meet
           the needs of high density computing equipment, such as server racks,
           used for data storage and processing. Gross floor area of data centers
           should include all space within the building(s) including raised floor
           computing space, server rack aisles, storage silos, control console areas,
           battery rooms, mechanical rooms for cooling equipment, administrative
           office areas, elevator shafts, stairways, break rooms and restrooms. When
           a data center is located within a larger building, the gross floor area of the
           data center should include only the spaces that are uniquely associated
           with the data center (e.g., not include spaces shared by the data center
           and other tenants, such as break rooms or hallways) in the building.

    III.R. “Demand flexibility” means the use of communication and control
           technology to shift electricity use across hours of the day while delivering
           end-use services (e.g., air conditioning, domestic hot water, electric
           vehicle charging) at the same or better quality but lower cost. It does this
           by applying automatic control to reshape a customer’s demand profile
           continuously in ways that either are invisible to or minimally affect the
           customer, and by leveraging more-granular rate structures that monetize
           demand flexibility’s capability to reduce costs for both customers and the
           grid.




                                                                                          4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.S. “Duplex” means a multi-family dwelling that has two separate residential
           units within one standalone building with the two units sharing a common
           wall or ceiling/floor and each having its own entrance.

    III.T. “ENERGY STAR” means the federal program authorized by 42 U.S.C. §
           6294a (2007), as amended, to help customers, businesses, and industry
           save money and protect the environment through the adoption of energy-
           efficient products and practices.

    III.U. “ENERGY STAR score” means the one-to-one-hundred numeric rating
           generated by the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager as a measurement of
           a building's energy efficiency.

    III.V. “ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager” means the resource management
           tool that enables building owners to track and benchmark energy in a
           building, or across multiple buildings, through an online platform used to
           measure their performance.

    III.W. “Energy-use intensity” (EUI) means a building’s energy use, expressed as
           total site energy use per square foot per year.

    III.X. “Financial hardship” means a property is experiencing at least one of the
           following conditions.

          III.X.1. The property has been included on a city's, county's, or city and
                   county's annual tax lien sale list within the previous two years.

          III.X.2. The property is an asset subject to a court-appointed receiver that
                   controls the asset due to financial stress.

          III.X.3. The property is owned by a financial institution as a result of a
                   default by a borrower.

          III.X.4. The property has been acquired by a deed in lieu of foreclosure.

          III.X.5. The property is the subject of a senior mortgage subject to a notice
                   of default.

          III.X.6. Due to the governor declaring a disaster emergency pursuant to
                   §24-33.5-704 (4), C.R.S. (2022), the property, in at least two of the
                   previous five years, generated annual rental income or revenue that
                   totals sixty percent or less of the five-year average immediately
                   preceding the disaster.

    III.Y. “Greenhouse gas” (GHG) means carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4),
           nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons
           (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).




                                                                                         5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.Z. “Gross floor area” (GFA) means the total building area, as measured from
           the outside surface of each exterior wall of the building, including above-
           grade and below-grade space.

    III.AA. “High-efficiency electric equipment” means electrical equipment that is, for
            example, certified according to ENERGY STAR, or meets the minimum
            efficiency requirements of the current version of American Society of
            Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers’ (ASHRAE)
            Standard 90.1, 2021 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), the
            Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) efficiency requirements, or
            newer requirements where applicable.

    III.BB. “Industrial purpose” means a building or structure used for industrial
            operations including, but not limited to, factories, mills, shops, processing
            plants, assembly plants, fabricating plants, research or development
            facilities, operations by energy producers, electric generation unit,
            refineries, meat packing plants, dairies, steel mills, cement plants, mining
            operations, airline operations, wastewater treatment plants, landfills, and
            abandoned coal mines. The gross floor area of a building or structure
            used for industrial operations must include all space within the building(s)
            at the building or structure including production or industrial operation
            areas, offices, conference rooms, employee break rooms, storage areas,
            mechanical rooms, stairways, and elevator shafts to determine if the
            building or structure meets the covered building exemption Section III.O.2.

    III.CC. “Manufacturing purpose” means a building or structure that includes a
            main production area containing machinery and equipment used for
            producing products. The gross floor area of a building or structure used for
            producing products must include all space within the building(s) at the
            building or structure, including production areas, offices, conference
            rooms, employee break rooms, storage areas, mechanical rooms,
            stairways, and elevator shafts to determine if the building or structure
            meets the covered building exemption Section III.O.2. For purposes of the
            exemption in Section III.O.2., manufacturing purposes does not include
            marijuana cultivation facilities, as defined by Colorado’s Marijuana
            Enforcement Division in 1 CCR 212-3 (2022).

    III.DD. “Mixed use building” means a building that contains multiple property
            types where there is not one single use type that represents 50% or more
            of the building or property’s gross floor area, including parking gross floor
            area.

    III.EE. “Multifamily housing” means any property used or intended to be used as
            a residence and that contains four or more dwelling units. Multifamily
            housing includes a condominium or cooperative.




                                                                                        6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.FF. “Parking” means buildings and lots used for parking vehicles. This
            includes open parking lots, partially enclosed parking structures, and
            completely enclosed (or underground) parking structures. Parking garages
            may be free standing or physically connected to the property.

    III.GG. “Power purchase agreement” (PPA) means an agreement executed
            between a covered building owner and the owner of a renewable energy
            resource or renewable energy storage system where the energy or share
            of energy produced from the renewable energy resource or renewable
            energy storage system is dedicated to serving the covered building. For
            purposes of this rule, a utility cannot be the owner of the renewable
            energy resource or renewable energy storage system.

    III.HH. “Power usage effectiveness” (PUE) means a measure of how much
            energy is consumed by the power supply and cooling systems in a Data
            Center relative to the amount of energy delivered directly to the IT
            equipment. PUE is equal to the total energy consumption of a Data Center
            (for all fuels) divided by the energy consumption used for the IT
            equipment.

    III.II.   “Property type” means the primary use of a building. Each property type
              will have a different set of property use details, which refer to the business
              activity at the property, such as weekly operating hours, number of
              workers, and number of computers. If a building or property has multiple
              uses, for purposes of benchmarking the property type is based on the use
              that accounts for more than 50% of a building’s or property’s gross floor
              area. As referenced in the definition of mixed use building in Part A,
              Section III.DD., if there is not one single use type that represents 50% or
              more of the building or property’s gross floor area, the property type will be
              classified as “mixed use.”

    III.JJ. “Public building” means a covered building owned by: the state; a local
            government; a district or special district regulated under title 32; a state
            institution of higher education; a private institution of higher education as
            defined in § 23-18-102 (9), C.R.S. (2022); a school district created
            pursuant to article 30 of title 22; and a charter school authorized pursuant
            to Part 1 of Article 30.5 of Title 22 of the C.R.S. (2022).

    III.KK. “Qualifying utility” means an electric or gas utility with five thousand or
            more active commercial and industrial service connections, accounts, or
            customers in Colorado, including: an investor-owned electric or gas utility;
            a cooperative electric association; or a municipally owned electric or gas
            utility. Qualifying utility also means a natural gas supplier with five or more
            active commercial or industrial connections, accounts, or customers in
            Colorado.




                                                                                            7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.LL. “Renewable energy credit” (REC) means a contractual right to the full set
            of non-energy attributes, including any and all credits, benefits, emissions
            reductions, offsets, and allowances, howsoever entitled, directly
            attributable to a specific amount of electric energy generated from a
            renewable energy resource. One REC results from one megawatt hour
            (MWh) of electric energy generated from a renewable energy resource.

    III.MM.         “Renewable energy” means useful electrical, thermal, or
           mechanical energy converted directly or indirectly from resources of
           continuous energy flow or that are perpetually replenished and whose
           utilization is sustainable indefinitely. The term includes, without limitation,
           sunlight, the wind, geothermal energy, hydrodynamic forces, and organic
           matter available on a renewable basis such as forest residues, agricultural
           crops and wastes, wood and wood wastes, animal wastes, livestock
           operation residue, aquatic plants, and municipal wastes.

    III.NN. “Renewable energy resource” means solar, wind, geothermal, biomass
            that is greenhouse gas neutral, new hydroelectricity with a nameplate
            rating of ten megawatts or less, and hydroelectricity in existence on
            January 1, 2005, with a nameplate rating of thirty megawatts or less and
            that does not require the construction of any new dams or reservoirs. A
            biomass electric generation facility that was in existence on or before
            January 1, 2021, or that has a nameplate rating of ten megawatts or less,
            is a renewable energy resource.

    III.OO. “Renewable energy storage system” means any commercially available
            system, including batteries and batteries paired with on-site generation,
            that is capable of retaining, storing, and delivering energy by chemical,
            thermal, mechanical, or other means.

    III.PP. “Renovation” means the repair, remodeling, restoration, and preservation
            of a covered building and any associated fixtures or improvements.

    III.QQ. “Retail distributed generation” means a renewable energy resource or
            renewable energy storage that is located on any property owned or leased
            by any customer within the service territory of the qualifying retail utility
            and is interconnected on the customer’s side of the utility meter. Retail
            distributed generation must provide electric energy primarily to serve the
            applicable covered building’s loads and must be sized to supply no more
            than two hundred percent of the reasonably expected average annual total
            consumption of electricity at all properties owned or leased by the
            customer within the utility’s service territory. Retail distributed generation
            also includes retail distributed generation resources provided to a covered
            building owner through a power purchase agreement or a community solar
            garden subscription. Retail distributed generation does not include utility-
            owned renewable electric generation.




                                                                                         8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    III.RR. “Single-family home” means a standalone residential building designed to
            be used as a single-dwelling unit with one owner and no shared walls with
            another residence.

    III.SS. “Site energy-use intensity” or “Site EUI” means the annual amount of all
            the energy the building consumes on-site, regardless of the source. A
            building’s site EUI is calculated by dividing the total energy consumed by
            the building in one year (measured in kBtu) by the total gross floor area of
            the building.

    III.TT. “Source energy-use intensity” or “Source EUI” means EUI calculations that
            consider the total amount of energy required for the building, including the
            energy used to produce and transmit any energy that comes from offsite.

    III.UU. “State institution of higher education” means an institution as defined in §
            23-1-108(7)(g)(II), CRS, (2022) and the Auraria Higher Education Center,
            governed pursuant to Article 70 of Title 23 of C.R.S. (2022). State
            institution of higher education does not include biomedical research
            laboratories.

    III.VV. “Triplex” means a multi-family dwelling that has three separate residential
            units within one standalone building with the units sharing one or two
            common walls or ceiling/floors and each having its own entrance.

    III.WW.       “Under-resourced building” means a building with limited access to
          resources, including revenues, funding, grants, or gifts that can help with
          building operations or to comply with the requirements of this rule, than
          other buildings within the same building type in the same utility service
          territory. Under-resourced buildings include, but are not limited to

           III.WW.1.   Buildings owned by organizations that qualify at tax exempt
                 under Section 501(c) of the Internal Review Code.

           III.WW.2.     Affordable housing.

           III.WW.3.  Buildings that are owned by an organization that provides
                 human services that are regulated by the Colorado Department of
                 Human Services, if those services are also provided in the building.

           III.WW.4.     Restricted income providers.

    III.XX. “Unoccupied” means a building without occupants or tenants other than
            security, maintenance staff, or construction workers during a construction
            or renovation project.

    III.YY. “Weather-normalized” means a method for modifying the measured
            building energy use in a specific weather year to energy use under normal
            weather conditions.



                                                                                           9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


IV.    Annual fee

       IV.A. Except as provided in Section IV.B., covered building owners must pay an
             annual fee, by June 1 of every reporting year, to the CEO of $100 per
             covered building. Beginning in calendar year 2026, the annual fee must be
             paid by November 1.

       IV.B. Owners of public covered buildings are exempt from the payment of the
             annual fee.

V.     Severability

If any section, clause, phrase, or standard contained in these regulations is for any
reason held to be inoperative, unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity of the
remaining portions thereof will not be affected and the Commission declares that it
severally passed and adopted these provisions separately and apart.




                                                                                         10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



PART B      Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements

I.   By June 1, 2024, and by June 1 of each year thereafter, covered building owners
     must report benchmarking data for the previous calendar year and additional
     information as specified below to the CEO on a CEO approved form. Owners of
     newly constructed buildings (i.e., buildings that were not built or occupied such
     that they had 2021 benchmarking data to submit by the initial reporting deadline
     of December 1, 2022) must start collecting benchmarking data once the owner
     has received a certificate of occupancy for the building and submit their first
     annual benchmarking data report the subsequent year (e.g., for a building with a
     certificate of occupancy starting March 1, 2023, submit by June 1, 2024, the
     building data from March 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023). Before
     submitting a benchmarking report, the covered building owner must run any
     automated data-checking function of the benchmarking tool and correct any
     errors discovered. The benchmarking data reported to the CEO must include the
     following.

     I.A.   Compliance pathway selection.

            I.A.1. In the June 1, 2024, report, covered building owners, except for
                   owners of public buildings subject to Section I.A.6., must specify
                   which compliance pathway in Part C, Section I. the covered
                   building owner will follow to reduce the building greenhouse gas
                   emissions in order to achieve the 2026 targets. If a covered building
                   owner does not specify their chosen compliance pathway, the
                   covered building owner must reduce building greenhouse gas
                   emissions in accordance with the energy efficiency pathway in Part
                   C, Section I.A.1.

            I.A.2. In the June 1, 2028, report, covered building owners, except for
                   owners of public buildings subject to Section I.A.6., must specify
                   which compliance pathway in Part C, Section I. the covered
                   building owner will follow to reduce the building’s greenhouse gas
                   emissions in order to achieve the 2030 targets. If a covered building
                   owner does not specify their chosen compliance pathway, the
                   covered building owner must reduce building greenhouse gas
                   emissions in accordance with the energy efficiency compliance
                   pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1.

            I.A.3. Covered building owners who specify the standard percent
                   reduction compliance pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2.
                   must submit each year of benchmarking data from 2021 up to the
                   notification year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024, notification submit 2021-
                   2023 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021 baseline does
                   not exist must provide each year of benchmarking data starting with




                                                                                      11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


               and following the year the owner receives a certificate of occupancy
               for the building up to the notification year.

         I.A.4. Covered building owners, except for covered buildings described in
                Part C, Section I.D., who did not submit a compliance pathway
                selection in accordance with Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2. must comply
                by default with the energy efficiency compliance pathway in Part C,
                Section I.A.1. until a compliance pathway selection is submitted.
                Covered buildings described in Part C, Section I.D. must comply by
                default with a standard percent reduction compliance pathway.

         I.A.5. Covered building owners who are assigned the energy efficiency
                compliance pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1. pursuant to Part B,
                Section I.A.4. may still select a percent reduction compliance
                pathway in either Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. if the covered
                building owner submits their benchmarking data for each year from
                2021 up to the current reporting year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024,
                report submit 2021-2023 data). New covered buildings for which a
                2021 baseline does not exist must provide each year of
                benchmarking data starting with and following the year the owner
                receives a certificate of occupancy for the building.

         I.A.6. Owners of public buildings

               I.A.6.a.      That become subject to performance standards under
                      Part C between January 1, 2024, and December 31, 2026,
                      must notify the CEO no later than sixty (60) days or in its
                      next benchmarking report following completion of a
                      construction or renovation project as described in Part A,
                      Section II.B., whichever is sooner, of their chosen
                      compliance pathway in Part C, Section I.

               I.A.6.b.      That become subject to performance standards under
                      Part C on or after January 1, 2027, must notify the CEO in its
                      next benchmarking report following completion of a
                      construction or renovation project as described in Part A,
                      Section II.B. of their chosen compliance pathway in Part C,
                      Section I.

               I.A.6.c.        That specify the standard percent reduction
                       compliance pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. must
                       submit each year of benchmarking data from 2021 up to the
                       notification year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024, notification submit
                       2021-2023 data). Owners of public buildings for which a
                       2021 baseline does not exist must provide each year of
                       benchmarking data starting with and following the year the




                                                                                     12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                         owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building up
                         to the notification year.

                  I.A.6.d.     That do not specify their chosen compliance pathway
                         must comply by default with the energy efficiency
                         compliance pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1. until a
                         compliance pathway selection is submitted.

    I.B.   A physical description of the covered building and descriptions of its
           operational characteristics, including

           I.B.1. The name of the covered building, if any.

           I.B.2. The physical street address of the covered building, or, if no street
                  address is assigned, then the latitude and longitude of the building
                  or buildings.

           I.B.3. The primary use(s) of the covered building.

           I.B.4. The covered building’s gross floor area.

           I.B.5. The years in which the covered building has been certified by
                  ENERGY STAR and the most recent date of certification, if
                  applicable.

           I.B.6. The data generated by the benchmarking tool for the covered
                  building, including

                  I.B.6.a.      The ENERGY STAR score, if applicable.

                  I.B.6.b.      Monthly energy use by fuel type.

                  I.B.6.c.        Annual electricity use by the covered building
                          associated with the customer-owned retail distributed
                          generation system or electricity purchased from retail
                          distributed generation, if applicable, subject to the
                          requirements of Part C, Sections I.B.1.b. or I.B.1.c.

                  I.B.6.d.       Annual electricity produced by the customer-owned
                         retail distribution generation system in kilowatt-hours (kWh)
                         that is exported to the grid and not associated with the
                         covered building’s electricity use, if applicable.

                  I.B.6.e.      Site energy-use intensity and source energy-use
                         intensity.

                  I.B.6.f. Weather-normalized site energy-use intensity and source
                           energy-use intensity.




                                                                                      13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                  I.B.6.g.      Confirmation from the benchmarking tool that data
                         quality has been checked and no errors were identified by
                         the benchmarking tool.

                  I.B.6.h.     Annual total electricity consumption, in kilowatt-hours
                         (kWh), if applicable.

                  I.B.6.i. Annual total gas consumption, in British Thermal Units (Btu),
                           if applicable.

                  I.B.6.j. Monthly peak electricity demand, if available for reporting
                           through the benchmarking tool, if applicable.

           I.B.7. Greenhouse gas emissions, including total, indirect, and direct
                  emissions.

           I.B.8. The name of the gas and/or electric utility provider(s) for the
                  covered building.

           I.B.9. The type and number of electric vehicle (EV) charging stations
                  associated with the building and all relevant meter information.

           I.B.10. Covered buildings that are marijuana cultivation facilities must
                   report their property type as “manufacturing” in the benchmarking
                   tool.

    I.C.   In addition to the data generated by the benchmarking tool, covered
           building owners must report to the CEO the following information, if
           applicable.

           I.C.1. A change in property type for a covered building, if applicable,
                  including the prior property type(s) and the new property type(s), as
                  well as supporting documentation for the new property type(s)
                  designation since the previous benchmarking report.

           I.C.2. Any AIRS IDs associated with the covered building or covered
                  buildings reported as a campus.

    I.D.   A demonstration of progress towards meeting the building performance
           standards in Part C. Such demonstration may include, but is not limited to,
           documentation of completed or planned energy efficiency measures or
           replacements of fossil fuel equipment with high-efficiency electric
           equipment, including dates completed and/or the timeframe for any
           planned measures or replacements, as well as results from the ENERGY
           STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in a spreadsheet
           (.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator.




                                                                                         14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    I.E.   Covered building owners who utilize their customer-owned retail
           distributed generation system or renewable energy resource as specified
           in Part C, Section I.B. must submit documentation of the ownership and
           retirement of their renewable energy credits to demonstrate compliance.

    I.F.   The following covered building owners may report benchmarking data at
           the campus-wide level.

           I.F.1. The owner of multiple covered buildings that are part of a master
                  metered group of buildings without sub-metering.

           I.F.2. The owner of a correctional facility, local jail, or private-contract
                  prison, as defined in 17-1-102, CRS (2022); 31-15-401(1)(j), CRS
                  (2022); municipal jail, as authorized in 31-15401(1)(j), CRS (2022);
                  or juvenile detention facility governed by Part 15 of Article 2.5 of
                  Title 19 of Colorado Revised Statutes (2022).

           I.F.3. The owner of a public building that is a covered building.

    I.G.   Covered building owners reporting benchmarking data at the campus-wide
           level must also submit documentation of the number of covered buildings
           that are part of the campus; the property type of each of the covered
           buildings; the meter information for each building; and the gross floor area,
           including parking, of each of the covered buildings.

    I.H.   Covered building owners must include in the 2027 through 2030
           benchmarking data report a demonstration that the covered building met
           the 2026 site EUI, greenhouse gas emission reduction target, data center
           target, or building specific target as provided in Part C.

           I.H.1. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section
                  I.A., must include the 2026, or subsequent year through 2029 (e.g.,
                  in the 2028 report include the data reflecting 2027) results from the
                  ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager, specifically the weather-
                  normalized site EUI. In meeting the site EUI targets in Part C,
                  Section I.A., individual building site EUIs must be normalized for
                  weather and, if and when available in ENERGY STAR Portfolio
                  Manager, normalized for occupancy.

           I.H.2. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section
                  I.B., must include the 2026, or subsequent year through 2029 (e.g.,
                  in the 2028 report include the data reflecting 2027) results from the
                  ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in
                  a spreadsheet (.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator. Building
                  owners must also include, if applicable, documentation of the
                  building’s high-efficiency electric equipment, including, but not
                  limited to, the equipment’s ENERGY STAR certification,
                  compliance with FEMP efficiency requirements, compliance with



                                                                                      15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                    ASHRAE Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021, or newer requirements if
                    applicable.

           I.H.3. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Sections
                  I.C. or I.D., must demonstrate that the covered building has met its
                  applicable building specific target for 2026, or subsequent year
                  through 2029 (e.g., in the 2028 report include the data reflecting
                  2027).

           I.H.4. Building owners demonstrating compliance through an adjustment
                  under Part C, Section II. must include the specific adjusted timeline
                  or target as approved by the CEO and documentation
                  demonstrating the building owner’s progress on the submitted plan
                  to achieve an adjusted timeline, if applicable.

    I.I.   Covered building owners must include in the 2031 benchmarking data
           report, and each year thereafter, a demonstration that the covered building
           met the 2030 site EUI, greenhouse gas emission reduction target, data
           center target, or building specific target as provided in Part C.

           I.I.1.   Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section
                    I.A., must include the 2030, or subsequent year (e.g., in the 2032
                    report include the data reflecting 2031) results from the ENERGY
                    STAR Portfolio Manager, specifically the weather normalized site
                    EUI. In meeting the site EUI targets in Part C, Section I.A.,
                    individual building site EUIs must be normalized for weather and, if
                    and when available in ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager,
                    normalized for occupancy.

           I.I.2.   Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section
                    I.B., must include the 2030, or subsequent year (e.g., in the 2032
                    report include the data reflecting 2031) results from the ENERGY
                    STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in a
                    spreadsheet (.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator. Building
                    owners must also include, if applicable, documentation of the
                    building’s high-efficiency electric equipment, including, but not
                    limited to, the equipment’s ENERGY STAR certification,
                    compliance with FEMP efficiency requirements, compliance with
                    ASHRAE Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021, or newer requirements if
                    applicable.

           I.I.3.   Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Sections
                    I.C. or I.D., must demonstrate that the covered building has met its
                    applicable building specific target for 2030, or subsequent year
                    (e.g., in the 2032 report include the data reflecting 2031).




                                                                                         16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


              I.I.4.   Building owners demonstrating compliance through an adjustment
                       under Part C, Section II. must include the specific adjusted timeline
                       or target as approved by the CEO and documentation
                       demonstrating the building owner’s progress on the submitted plan
                       to achieve an adjusted timeline, if applicable.

II.   Waivers, extensions, and exemptions

      II.A.   Waivers

              II.A.1. A covered building owner may seek a waiver from the annual
                      requirement to report benchmarking data in Part B, Section I. The
                      waiver request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To
                      seek a waiver, the covered building owner must submit waiver
                      documentation to and receive approval from the CEO. The covered
                      building owner must submit a new waiver request for each year the
                      owner is seeking a waiver. Covered building owners applying for a
                      report waiver for the calendar year to be benchmarked must submit
                      a waiver application to the CEO any time after June 1 of the
                      calendar year to be benchmarked and on or before May 1 of the
                      reporting year (e.g., for calendar year 2023 data, the waiver request
                      must be submitted between June 1, 2023, and May 1, 2024). The
                      CEO may approve an alternate timeline for submitting a waiver
                      request on a case by case basis. A benchmarking waiver request
                      must establish that the covered building has met one or more of the
                      following conditions for the calendar year to be benchmarked.

                       II.A.1.a.       The covered building was unoccupied for at least
                               thirty consecutive days of the year.

                       II.A.1.b.      A demolition permit was issued for the entire covered
                               building. Submission of a copy of the demolition permit is
                               required.

                       II.A.1.c.      The covered building met one or more of the
                               conditions for financial hardship.

                       II.A.1.d.        The covered building does not meet a qualifying
                               utility's aggregation threshold and one or more of the utility
                               customers refused to provide the owner with permission to
                               access the utility customer's relevant energy-use data. The
                               covered building owner must provide proof to the CEO that it
                               requested permission from the utility customer or utility
                               customers withholding consent at least thirty days before the
                               benchmarking report was due, and the owner must submit a
                               plan to the CEO to include an energy-use data sharing




                                                                                          17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                          permission provision in the next lease renewal for the
                          building’s tenants.

                   II.A.1.e.       The covered building has four or more utility
                           customers, is not located within a qualifying utility's service
                           territory, and the owner is unable to obtain aggregated data
                           from the utility that serves the covered building.

            II.A.2. A covered building owner who is not listed in Part B, Section I.F.,
                    may seek a waiver from the annual requirements to report
                    benchmarking data on a per building basis and request to instead
                    submit benchmarking data as a campus if there is a compelling
                    state or national security interest for the covered building owner to
                    do so. The covered building owner must provide information to the
                    CEO documenting why they are requesting to submit benchmarking
                    data as a campus. The CEO may work with the covered building
                    owner to permit the owner to submit benchmarking data in a format
                    other than through the benchmarking tool in order to address state
                    or national security interests related to data reporting.

    II.B.   Extensions

            II.B.1. A covered building owner may request a time extension from the
                    CEO to submit a benchmarking report if the owner submits
                    documentation to the CEO demonstrating that, despite the owner's
                    good-faith effort, the owner was unable to complete the
                    benchmarking report for the calendar year to be benchmarked in a
                    timely manner because of the failure or refusal of a qualifying utility
                    or a utility customer to provide the necessary information or
                    permission, as applicable.

            II.B.2. Covered building owners that request a benchmarking report time
                    extension must submit the extension application to the CEO by May
                    15 of the reporting year (e.g., by May 15, 2024, for calendar year
                    2023 data) on a CEO-approved form.

    II.C.   Exemptions

            II.C.1. The owner of a building with a gross floor area of 50,000 square
                    feet or more that is occupied by a single occupant or group of
                    tenants may, in the interest of regulatory certainty, request from the
                    CEO an affirmative exemption from the annual requirement to
                    report benchmarking data in Part B, Section I. if their building does
                    not meet the definition of a covered building in Part A, Section III.O.

                   II.C.1.a.     Any exemption request must be submitted on a CEO
                           approved form and include all required information to be
                           considered.



                                                                                         18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                   II.C.1.b.      Building owners may apply for an exemption that will
                           be in place until June 1, 2026. After June 1, 2026, building
                           owners that have been approved for an exemption must
                           reapply.

                   II.C.1.c.      After June 1, 2026, building owners applying for an
                           exemption for the calendar year to be benchmarked must
                           submit an exemption application to the CEO any time after
                           June 1 of the calendar year to be benchmarked and on or
                           before May 1 of the reporting year (e.g., for calendar year
                           2027 data, the exemption request must be submitted
                           between June 1, 2027, and May 1, 2028). The CEO may
                           approve an alternate timeline for submitting an exemption
                           request on a case by case basis.

            II.C.2. Owners of single-family homes, duplexes, or triplexes are not
                    required to file an annual exemption request but must report their
                    benchmarking data annually if the property type changes such that
                    the building meets the definition of and applicability for a covered
                    building.

    II.D.   If a covered building owner’s waiver or exemption request is denied by the
            CEO, the building owner may request the CEO executive director (or their
            designee) to review the determination. The building owner must request
            the review within sixty (60) days of the initial denial and before the June 1
            reporting deadline for the calendar year in which the waiver was applied
            for. The executive director (or their designee) will make a recommendation
            on the waiver or exemption request within ninety (90) days of the review
            request.




                                                                                         19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



PART C       Building Performance Standards and Compliance Pathways

I.    Compliance pathways

Owners of covered buildings must reduce building greenhouse gas emissions through
one of the following building performance standards compliance pathways. Owners of
covered buildings must comply with the performance standard in the selected
compliance pathway on an annual basis beginning in 2026. Owners of covered
buildings must meet and maintain the 2026 standard for the calendar years 2026
through 2029 and the 2030 standard for calendar years 2030 through 2050, unless
otherwise extended by subsequent rules of the Commission.

      I.A.   Energy efficiency

             I.A.1. The covered building owner must reduce the energy consumption
                    of the building through the implementation of energy efficiency
                    measures and/or technologies to meet the applicable property type
                    weather-normalized site EUI target in Table 1.

             I.A.2. Building owners who received a waiver for the 2021 benchmarking
                    requirement or building owners who did not submit benchmarking
                    data will automatically be assigned a weather-normalized site EUI
                    target based on the data submitted for the other buildings of the
                    same property type.

             I.A.3. Standard percent reduction

                   I.A.3.a.      A covered building owner unable to achieve the site
                          EUI target in Table 1 may comply by achieving and
                          maintaining a standard percent reduction in their covered
                          building’s weather-normalized site EUI as compared to the
                          covered building’s 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked
                          baseline weather-normalized site EUI. Under this
                          compliance pathway, the covered building must

                          I.A.3.a.(i)  In 2026, achieve and maintain a standard
                                 percent reduction of 13% in comparison to the
                                 covered building’s 2021 benchmarked baseline
                                 weather-normalized site EUI.

                          I.A.3.a.(ii) In 2030, achieve and maintain a standard
                                 percent reduction of 29% in comparison to the
                                 covered building’s 2021 benchmarked baseline
                                 weather-normalized site EUI.

      I.B.   Greenhouse gas intensity reductions




                                                                                    20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


         I.B.1. A covered building owner unable to achieve the building
                performance standards in Part C, Section I.A. may demonstrate
                compliance through reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
                attributable to the building’s energy use through energy efficiency
                or replacing fossil fuel equipment with high-efficiency electric
                equipment. A building owner unable to fully comply with the
                greenhouse gas compliance pathway target may use customer-
                owned retail distributed generation systems or retail distributed
                generation or utility subscription services in accordance with the
                requirements of Sections I.B.1.b. or I.B.1.c. or I.B.1.d., or may
                achieve greenhouse gas reductions through alternative measures
                approved by the CEO in accordance with Section I.B.1.e. In order
                to use customer-owned retail distributed generation systems or
                retail distributed generation, the covered building owner must
                demonstrate that the covered building owner has submitted an
                energy audit to the CEO and demonstrated that a building owner
                has exhausted cost-effective energy efficiency and electrification
                measures for the covered building. In using renewable energy
                generated by a customer-owned retail distributed generation
                system or retail distributed generation, a covered building owner:

               I.B.1.a.       Must demonstrate that the covered building has not
                      met the applicable greenhouse gas emissions intensity
                      target in Table 1 using the ENERGY STAR Portfolio
                      Manager Building Emissions Calculator. A covered building
                      owner must demonstrate this by doing the following

                      I.B.1.a.(i)   Import or upload the data for the covered
                             building from ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager to
                             the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building
                             Emissions Calculator;

                      I.B.1.a.(ii)  Apply the applicable Colorado locality-specified
                             emission factor for grid-supplied electricity to the
                             results to obtain total greenhouse gas emissions; and

                      I.B.1.a.(iii) Divide the covered building’s total greenhouse
                             gas emissions from the ENERGY STAR Portfolio
                             Manager Building Emissions Calculator by the square
                             footage of the building to determine the building’s
                             greenhouse gas intensity value for comparison to the
                             targets in Table 1.

               I.B.1.b.      May use renewable energy demonstrated through
                      retention of RECs from the covered building owner’s
                      customer-owned retail distributed generation system that
                      represent no more than the amount of electricity consumed



                                                                                  21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                    by the building on an annual basis for each compliance year
                    in Table 1 to demonstrate compliance with the performance
                    target.

              I.B.1.c.        The owner of a covered building who does not own
                      the RECs from their customer-owned retail distributed
                      generation system or from retail distributed generation where
                      the interconnect request was filed with the utility company
                      prior to December 31, 2023, may purchase RECs associated
                      with other renewable energy resources located in Colorado
                      to demonstrate compliance with Section I.B. if the following
                      conditions are met.

                    I.B.1.c.(i)    The covered building owner owns the RECs
                            and retires them in the year generated;

                    I.B.1.c.(ii)   The customer-owned retail distributed
                            generation system or retail distributed generation is
                            located in Colorado, either onsite or offsite of the
                            covered building; and

                    I.B.1.c.(iii)   The covered building owner submits to CEO an
                            energy audit for the building completed by an
                            approved energy auditor as specified in Sections
                            II.C.1. through II.C.4. CEO may request that the
                            covered building owner provide additional information
                            demonstrating that the building owner has analyzed
                            energy efficiency and electrification options, will
                            employ those to the extent feasible, and renewable
                            electric generation is the only way to make up any
                            remaining gap to comply with the greenhouse gas
                            intensity reduction target.

                    I.B.1.c.(iv) Once the covered building owner has
                            submitted the energy audit and demonstrates that a
                            building owner has exhausted cost-effective energy
                            efficiency and electrification measures for the covered
                            building, the building owner may use renewable
                            energy that represents no more than the amount of
                            electricity produced by the customer-owned retail
                            distributed generation system or retail distributed
                            generation and consumed by the covered building on
                            an annual basis for each compliance year in Table 1.

              I.B.1.d.       Owners of covered buildings may utilize utility
                     subscription services as a compliance mechanism subject to
                     the following limitations.




                                                                                    22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                     I.B.1.d.(i)    The covered building owner submits to CEO an
                            energy audit for the building completed by an
                            approved energy auditor as specified in Part B.
                            Sections II.C.1. through II.C.5. CEO may request that
                            the building owner provide additional information
                            demonstrating that the building owner has analyzed
                            energy efficiency and electrification options, will
                            employ those to the extent feasible, and renewable
                            electric generation is the only way to make up any
                            remaining gap to comply with the GHG intensity
                            reduction target.

                     I.B.1.d.(ii)  Once the covered building owner has
                            submitted the energy audit and demonstrates that the
                            covered building owner has exhausted cost-effective
                            energy efficiency and electrification measures for the
                            covered building, the covered building owner may use
                            renewable energy demonstrated through retention of
                            RECs associated with subscription services for no
                            more than the amount needed to achieve compliance
                            for under this Section after the results and
                            recommendations of the energy audit for the building
                            are taken into account.

                     I.B.1.d.(iii) Any renewable energy resources and
                            associated RECs retired for purposes of
                            demonstrating compliance with this Section and
                            utilized as part of a utility subscription service are not
                            also used for any other utility emission reduction
                            requirement, including but not limited to Clean Energy
                            Plan compliance.

              I.B.1.e.       The owner of a covered building may use alternative
                     measures, including utility-offered programs, not identified in
                     this subsection to demonstrate compliance with Section I.B.
                     if the owner obtains written approval from the CEO. The
                     owner of a covered building shall submit an application to
                     the CEO at least six months prior to implementation of the
                     measure. The measure can be used for compliance only if
                     the following conditions are met.

                     I.B.1.e.(i)  The measure achieves reduction of
                            greenhouse gas emission in Colorado.

                     I.B.1.e.(ii)  The greenhouse gas emission reductions are
                            not the result of decarbonization of the electrical or
                            natural gas utility grids.



                                                                                   23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                       I.B.1.e.(iii) The CEO, in consultation with the Division,
                              approves the calculation methodology to quantify the
                              greenhouse gas emission reductions.

    I.B.2. Standard percent reduction

          I.B.2.a.       A covered building owner unable to achieve the site GHG-
                 intensity target in Table 1 may comply by achieving and maintaining
                 a standard percent reduction in their covered building’s greenhouse
                 gas intensity as compared to the covered building’s 2021, or first
                 reporting year, benchmarked baseline greenhouse gas intensity by
                 using the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions
                 Calculator and applying the applicable Colorado-specific emission
                 factor for electricity to both the baseline emissions calculation and
                 the target year emissions calculation and converting the results to
                 greenhouse gas intensity values in kg CO2e/SF to determine the
                 percent reduction achieved. Under this compliance pathway, the
                 covered building must

                 I.B.2.a.(i)   In 2026, achieve and maintain a standard percent
                        reduction of 13% in comparison to the covered building’s
                        2021 benchmarked baseline that has been converted to a
                        greenhouse gas intensity value.

                 I.B.2.a.(ii)  In 2030, achieve and maintain a standard percent
                        reduction of 29% in comparison to the covered building’s
                        2021 benchmarked baseline that has been converted to a
                        greenhouse gas intensity value.

                 I.B.2.a.(iii) Comply with the requirements of Sections I.B.1.b. or
                        I.B.1.c., if applicable.

                 I.B.2.a.(iv) Demonstrate that the covered building has met the
                        applicable standard percent reduction using the ENERGY
                        STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator as
                        specified in Sections I.B.1.a.(i) through I.B.1.a.(iii).




                                                                                   24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission




            Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets
                                                             2026-         2030-
                                     2026-       2030-       2029          2050
                                   2029 Site   2050 Site     GHG           GHG
            Property Type
                                      EUI         EUI      Intensity     Intensity
                                   (kBtu/SF)   (kBtu/SF)      (kg           (kg
                                                           CO2e/SF)      CO2e/SF)
 Adult Education                      53.1       42.6         3.3           1.9

 Ambulatory Surgical Center           79.2       63.5         4.9           2.8
 Aquarium                             98.3       78.8         6.1           3.5
 Automobile Dealership                55.8       44.7         3.5           2.0
 Bank Branch                          83.0       66.6         5.1           3.0
 Bar/Nightclub                       113.0       90.6         7.0           4.0
 Barracks                             52.8       44.9         3.3           2.0
 Bowling Alley                       114.5       81.5         7.1           3.6
 Casino                               74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 College/University                   74.1       58.3         4.6           2.6
 Convenience Store with Gas
                                     205.9       165.1       12.8           7.4
 Station
 Convenience Store without Gas
                                     237.5       190.5       14.7           8.5
 Station
 Convention Center                    43.0       34.5         2.7           1.5
 Courthouse                           66.8       53.6         4.1           2.4
 Distribution Center                  38.5       30.9         2.4           1.4
 Enclosed Mall                        59.5       47.7         3.7           2.1
 Fast Food Restaurant                406.1       325.8       25.2          14.5
 Financial Office                     57.2       46.9         3.5           2.1
 Fire Station                         59.5       47.7         3.7           2.1



                                                                                  25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


           Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets
                                                            2026-         2030-
                                    2026-       2030-       2029          2050
                                  2029 Site   2050 Site     GHG           GHG
           Property Type
                                     EUI         EUI      Intensity     Intensity
                                  (kBtu/SF)   (kBtu/SF)      (kg           (kg
                                                          CO2e/SF)      CO2e/SF)
 Fitness Center/Health Club/Gym     114.5       81.5         7.1           3.6
 Food Sales                         202.6       162.5       12.6           7.3
 Food Service                       244.3       195.9       15.2           8.7
 Hospital (General Medical &
 Surgical)                          217.6       172.0       13.5           7.7

 Hotel                               64.3       54.3         4.0           2.4
 Ice/Curling Rink                   114.5       81.5         7.1           3.6
 Indoor Arena                        74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 K-12 School                         56.9       49.1         3.5           2.2
 Laboratory                         200.7       161.0       12.5           7.2
 Library                             69.0       55.3         4.3           2.5
 Lifestyle Center                    59.8       39.0         3.7           1.7
 Mailing Center/Post Office          60.6       48.6         3.8           2.2
 Medical Office                      76.7       64.9         4.8           2.9
 Movie Theater                       74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 Multifamily Housing                 50.6       42.1         3.1           1.9
 Museum                              74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 Non-Refrigerated Warehouse          38.0       27.5         2.4           1.2
 Office                              57.2       46.9         3.5           2.1
 Other                               70.3       55.0         4.4           2.5
 Other - Education                   53.1       42.6         3.3           1.9




                                                                                 26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


           Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets
                                                                2026-        2030-
                                        2026-       2030-       2029         2050
                                      2029 Site   2050 Site     GHG          GHG
          Property Type
                                         EUI         EUI      Intensity    Intensity
                                      (kBtu/SF)   (kBtu/SF)      (kg          (kg
                                                              CO2e/SF)     CO2e/SF)
 Other - Entertainment/Public
 Assembly                               98.3        78.8         6.1          3.5

 Other - Lodging/Residential            66.9        53.7         4.2          2.4
 Other - Mall                           78.7        63.1         4.9          2.8
 Other - Public Services                45.1        36.2         2.8          1.6
 Other - Recreation                    114.5        81.5         7.1          3.6
 Other - Restaurant/Bar                253.2       203.1        15.7          9.1
 Other - Services                       45.1        36.2         2.8          1.6
 Other - Specialty Hospital            217.6       172.0        13.5          7.7
 Other - Stadium                        74.6        56.2         4.6          2.5
 Other - Technology/Science             70.3        55.0         4.4          2.5
 Outpatient Rehabilitation/Physical
 Therapy                                79.2        63.5         4.9          2.8

 Performing Arts                        74.6        56.2         4.6          2.5
 Personal Services (Health/Beauty,
 Dry Cleaning, etc.)                    45.1        36.2         2.8          1.6

 Police Station                         59.5        47.7         3.7          2.1
 Pre-school/Daycare                     50.8        40.7         3.1          1.8
 Prison/Incarceration                  108.3        86.9         6.7          3.9
 Race Track                             74.6        56.2         4.6          2.5
 Refrigerated Warehouse                 83.3        66.8         5.2          3.0
 Repair Services (Vehicle, Shoe,
 Locksmith, etc.)                       45.1        36.2         2.8          1.6




                                                                                    27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


              Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets
                                                               2026-         2030-
                                       2026-       2030-       2029          2050
                                     2029 Site   2050 Site     GHG           GHG
              Property Type
                                        EUI         EUI      Intensity     Intensity
                                     (kBtu/SF)   (kBtu/SF)      (kg           (kg
                                                             CO2e/SF)      CO2e/SF)
 Residence Hall/Dormitory               52.8       44.9         3.3           2.0
 Residential Care Facility              68.0       57.7         4.2           2.6
 Restaurant                            253.2       203.1       15.7           9.1
 Retail Store                           57.3       41.5         3.6           1.9
 Roller Rink                           114.5       81.5         7.1           3.6
 Self-Storage Facility                  10.9        7.7         0.7           0.3
 Senior Living Community                68.0       57.7         4.2           2.6
 Social/Meeting Hall                    43.0       34.5         2.7           1.5
 Stadium (Closed)                       74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 Stadium (Open)                         74.6       56.2         4.6           2.5
 Strip Mall                             59.8       39.0         3.7           1.7
 Supermarket/Grocery Store             158.3       140.0        9.8           6.2
 Swimming Pool                         114.5       81.5         7.1           3.6
 Transportation Terminal/Station        98.3       78.8         6.1           3.5
 Urgent Care/Clinic/Other
 Outpatient                             76.7       64.9         4.8           2.9

 Veterinary Office                      76.7       64.9         4.8           2.9
 Vocational School                      53.1       42.6         3.3           1.9
 Wholesale Club/Supercenter             57.3       41.5         3.6           1.9
 Worship Facility                       41.7       38.4         2.6           1.7
 Zoo                                    98.3       78.8         6.1           3.5




                                                                                    28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


    I.C.   Upon a complete submission of the information described in Section
           I.C.3., the CEO will assign data centers a power usage effectiveness
           (PUE) target based on

           I.C.1. The data center’s total facility energy usage, including all data
                  center hardware, power delivery components, cooling systems, and
                  lighting systems;

           I.C.2. Information technology (IT) equipment energy usage for the data
                  center, including the energy used to power the storage and
                  networking equipment and control equipment such as monitors and
                  workstations; and

           I.C.3. An energy audit of the data center conducted by a qualified energy
                  auditor demonstrating feasible options to reduce the data center’s
                  PUE including, but not limited to, improving cooling systems,
                  replacing inefficient hardware, using energy efficient lighting,
                  optimizing redundant power supplies, using virtualization
                  techniques (e.g., virtual servers), and installing battery storage
                  instead of emergency generators for short term power outages.

                  I.C.3.a.     The energy audit may be created using the U.S.
                         Department of Energy’s Audit Template Tool or a similar
                         CEO-approved program equivalent to an ASHRAE Level 2
                         energy audit and must include a report describing the results
                         and recommendations of the audit.

                  I.C.3.b.       Energy auditors must have an in-depth knowledge of
                         data center operations and energy efficiency measures and
                         may be certified by the Association of Energy Engineers
                         (AEE), ASHRAE, the Energy Management Association, the
                         Building Performance Institute, or similar CEO-approved
                         certifying entity.

                  I.C.3.c.     Energy auditors must certify that the results of the
                         energy audit are accurate and complete.

           I.C.4. To request a building specific target, the owner of the covered
                  building must submit the information in Section I.C.3. to the CEO on
                  a CEO-approved form by December 31, 2025, for the 2026 target
                  and December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target.

    I.D.   Mixed use buildings, marijuana cultivation facilities, and covered buildings
           with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging stations that are not able to be
           sub-metered will default to the standard percent reduction compliance
           pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. If these buildings do not
           choose to comply with the standard percent reduction compliance




                                                                                       29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


           pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2., they may request an
           individualized target.

           I.D.1. Mixed use buildings will be assigned an individualized blended
                  target based on building specific criteria including, but not limited to,
                  the gross floor area for each property type for that building; total
                  energy consumption; sub-metered energy consumption; and data
                  center or server closet size, if applicable.

           I.D.2. Covered buildings with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging
                  stations that are not able to be sub-metered will be assigned an
                  individualized target based on the energy usage of the covered
                  building excluding the installed EV charging station(s) energy
                  usage.

           I.D.3. Marijuana cultivation facilities will be assigned a target based on
                  the facility’s total gross floor area and energy usage, including
                  climate control, lighting, and irrigation systems.

           I.D.4. To request an individualized target, the owner of the covered
                  building must submit the following to the CEO on a CEO-approved
                  form by December 31, 2025, for the 2026 target and December 31,
                  2029, for the 2030 target.

                  I.D.4.a.       The covered building’s 2021 and each subsequent
                         year of benchmarking data. New covered buildings for which
                         a 2021 baseline does not exist must provide the
                         benchmarking data submitted for the first full calendar year
                         of building data.

                  I.D.4.b.       Mixed use buildings must submit documentation of
                         the gross floor area for each property type for that building;
                         total energy consumption; sub-metered energy consumption;
                         data center or server closet size, if applicable; and other
                         criteria listed on the CEO-approved form.

                  I.D.4.c.     Covered buildings with EV charging stations that are
                         not sub-metered must submit documentation of the specific
                         energy usage of the EV charging stations.

                  I.D.4.d.        Marijuana cultivation facilities must submit
                         documentation of the facility’s total gross floor area and
                         energy usage, including climate control, lighting, and
                         irrigation systems; and other criteria listed on the CEO-
                         approved form.

    I.E.   Owners of covered buildings that seek to challenge an individualized
           target assigned by the CEO pursuant to Sections I.C. or I.D. must apply



                                                                                        30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


              for a target adjustment pursuant to Sections II.B. and II.C. Data centers
              applying for a building specific target adjustment need not perform a
              second energy audit as required in Part C, Section II.C.

II.   Compliance pathway adjustments

      II.A.   Adjusted Timeline

      Covered building owners may request an adjustment to the timeline to achieve
      the 2026 and/or 2030 building performance standards pursuant to Part C,
      Section I. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To apply for
      a timeline adjustment a covered building owner must

              II.A.1. Submit an application to the CEO requesting an adjusted timeline,
                      including

                    II.A.1.a.     The specific adjusted timeline needed.

                    II.A.1.b.     Documentation of the need for the adjusted timeline.

                    II.A.1.c.     The covered building owner’s plan to achieve the
                            performance targets within the adjusted timeline.

                    II.A.1.d.      An inventory of the natural gas equipment in the
                            building including the age of the equipment and the energy
                            savings associated with electrification of the equipment, if
                            applicable.

                    II.A.1.e.      Purchase orders for necessary equipment
                            demonstrating purchase and delivery dates, and any
                            additional documentation demonstrating supply chain delays
                            specific to that equipment, if applicable.

                    II.A.1.f.       Documentation demonstrating collaboration with the
                            building’s utility(ies) related to updating the electrical
                            distribution infrastructure, if applicable.

              II.A.2. Covered building owners applying for an adjusted timeline must
                      submit their application to the CEO by December 31, 2025, for the
                      2026 target and by December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target.

              II.A.3. Covered building owners that may apply for this type of adjustment
                      include, but are not limited to

                    II.A.3.a.     Affordable housing and under-resourced buildings.

                           II.A.3.a.(i)   Owners of covered buildings that do not fall
                                   into one of the categories in the definition of under-




                                                                                            31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                                resourced buildings in Part A, Section III.WW. may
                                petition the CEO for status as an under-resourced
                                building by submitting on a CEO-approved form a
                                description of the building; an explanation of why the
                                building should be considered under-resourced; and
                                evidence that the building has less access to
                                resources than other similarly situated buildings in the
                                relevant utility service territory.

                  II.A.3.b.      Buildings undergoing a major renovation that does not
                          align with the target dates but that will achieve the site EUI
                          or greenhouse gas target.

                  II.A.3.c.     Building owners experiencing significant supply chain
                          or workforce delays.

                  II.A.3.d.      Building owners who can demonstrate a plan to
                          replace building heating and cooling systems at end of life
                          where the system end of life occurs after the compliance
                          period.

                  II.A.3.e.     Building owners experiencing financial hardship, as
                          defined in Part A, Section III.X.

                  II.A.3.f.      Inherent and unique characteristics of the physical
                          building that prohibit them from reaching the timeline.

                  II.A.3.g.       Buildings that require updates to the electrical
                          distribution infrastructure that cannot be timely completed to
                          meet the performance standard deadline.

                  II.A.3.h.       Building owners that purchase a covered building
                          within the 12 month period before a required building
                          performance standard deadline. Building performance
                          standard deadline is December 31, 2026, for the 2026 target
                          and December 31, 2030, for the 2030 target.

    II.B.   Standard Performance Target Adjustments

    Covered building owners who have selected the EUI or GHG compliance
    pathway may request a standard adjusted 2026 and/or 2030 performance target.
    The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form.

            II.B.1. As part of the standard performance target adjustment, buildings
                    with multiple property types will be assigned a standard blended
                    target based on the percentage of gross floor area assigned to
                    each property type for that building. The CEO will also consider




                                                                                        32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                  other standard adjustments as suggested by EPA, Department of
                  Energy, or other nationally recognized entities.

            II.B.2. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To apply
                    for an adjusted target a covered building owner must submit

                  II.B.2.a.       Each year of the benchmarking data from 2021 up to
                          the request year (e.g., for a January 1, 2025, request submit
                          2021-2024 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021
                          baseline does not exist must provide each year of
                          benchmarking data starting with and following the year the
                          owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building.
                          The covered building must also submit a third-party data
                          verification checklist for each year of benchmarking data.

                  II.B.2.b.     A list of property types at the covered building and the
                          associated square footage for each property type.

                  II.B.2.c.     Third-party data verification.

            II.B.3. The CEO may request other information from the covered building
                    owner in order to generate a standard performance adjustment
                    target.

    II.C.   Adjusted Performance Target for Under-Resourced Buildings

    Owners of under-resourced buildings may request an adjusted 2026 and/or 2030
    performance target. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To
    apply for an adjusted target the owner of an under-resourced building must

            II.C.1. Submit an application to the CEO requesting an adjusted target,
                    including

                  II.C.1.a.       Each year of the benchmarking data from 2021 up to
                          the request year (e.g., for a January 1, 2025, request submit
                          2021-2024 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021
                          baseline does not exist must provide each year of
                          benchmarking data starting with and following the year the
                          owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building.
                          The covered building must also submit a third-party data
                          verification checklist for each year of benchmarking data.

                  II.C.1.b.      Narrative detailing the building characteristics (e.g.,
                          year of construction, state or federal historical status, etc.) or
                          functional variations that qualify for an adjustment.




                                                                                         33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


                  II.C.1.c.       An inventory of the natural gas equipment in the
                          building including the age of the equipment and the
                          electrification feasibility of the equipment.

                  II.C.1.d.     Documentation of operation and maintenance
                          improvements including how the building owner will
                          implement long-term payback measures in the building.

                  II.C.1.e.      Documentation demonstrating collaboration with the
                          building’s utility or utilities to determine the feasibility of gas
                          and electric beneficial electrification and/or gas or electric
                          demand side management programs.

            II.C.2. Covered building owners applying for an adjusted target must
                    submit their application to the CEO by December 31, 2025, for the
                    2026 target and by December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target.

            II.C.3. Covered building owners that may apply for this type of adjustment
                    include, but are not limited to

                  II.C.3.a.     Covered buildings with inherent and unique
                          characteristics of the physical building that make the weather
                          normalized site EUI target unachievable or cost prohibitive.

                  II.C.3.b.      Affordable housing and under-resourced buildings.

                         II.C.3.b.(i)    Owners of covered buildings that do not fall
                                 into one of the categories in the definition of under-
                                 resourced buildings in Part A, Section III.WW. may
                                 petition the CEO for status as an under-resourced
                                 building by submitting on a CEO-approved form a
                                 description of the building; an explanation of why the
                                 building should be considered under-resourced; and
                                 evidence that the building has less access to
                                 resources than other similarly situated buildings in the
                                 relevant utility service territory.

    II.D.   Owners of covered buildings applying for a compliance adjustment to a
            building’s target or timeline pursuant to Part C, Section II.A. must also
            submit to the CEO an energy audit for the building completed by an
            approved energy auditor.

            II.D.1. The building owner must submit an energy audit created using the
                    U.S. Department of Energy’s Audit Template Tool or similar CEO-
                    approved program, equivalent to an ASHRAE Level 2 energy audit,
                    and a report describing the results and recommendations of the
                    audit.




                                                                                            34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


               II.D.2. The audit report must include the achievable weather-normalized
                       site EUI for the building, based on the results and
                       recommendations of the audit.

               II.D.3. Energy auditors must be certified by the Association of Energy
                       Engineers (AEE), ASHRAE, the Energy Management Association,
                       the Building Performance Institute, or similar CEO-approved
                       certifying entity.

               II.D.4. Energy auditors must certify that the results of the energy audit are
                       accurate and complete.

               II.D.5. The energy audit may be in the form of a strategic energy
                       management plan for covered buildings that are part of a campus.

       II.E.   In addition to target adjustment application materials submitted by an
               owner of a covered building, the CEO will also consider the
               appropriateness of a standard adjustment as suggested by EPA.

       II.F.   Owners of covered buildings that will demonstrate compliance with the
               building performance standards through a compliance pathway other than
               the selected compliance pathway, as specified pursuant to Part B, Section
               I.A., may request an adjustment from the CEO. The covered building
               owner must provide the materials required in Part C, Sections II.B. and
               II.C. and demonstrate that the building owner has achieved compliance
               through the other compliance pathway. The request must be submitted to
               the CEO on a CEO-approved form by January 31, 2027 (for the 2026
               target) and January 31, 2031 (for the 2030 target).

       II.G.   If a covered building owner’s adjustment request is denied by the CEO,
               the building owner may request the CEO executive director (or their
               designee) to review the determination. The building owner must request
               the review within ninety (90) days of the initial denial. The executive
               director (or their designee) will make a recommendation on the adjustment
               request within 120 days of the review request.

III.   A covered building owner that fails to meet the building performance standards
       through one of the compliance pathways in Section I. in the timeframe(s)
       specified or under an approved adjustment pursuant to Section II. must meet the
       building performance standards as expeditiously as practicable.

       III.A. Failure to timely comply with a performance standard under Part C will
              constitute a violation of these rules.

       III.B. Until compliance is achieved, on the last day of every month after a
              covered building owner fails to meet the building performance standards
              by the date(s) specified in Section I., the building owner must either
              demonstrate compliance with the building performance standards or



                                                                                          35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


          demonstrate progress towards meeting the building performance
          standards.

          III.B.1. Initial reporting under Section III.A. must include documentation
                   demonstrating the building owner’s retrofit plan including an outline
                   of proposed improvements, the timeframe in which improvements
                   will be made, and how the improvements will result in the building
                   reaching the applicable target of the chosen compliance pathway.
                   The retrofit plan must include at least two contractor project cost
                   estimates.

          III.B.2. Subsequent monthly reports must include a description of any work
                   completed under the retrofit plan and documentation that plan
                   milestones have been met.

          III.B.3. This demonstration must be provided to the CEO until the covered
                   building owner demonstrates compliance with the building
                   performance standards or until a new building performance
                   standard becomes applicable, at which time the covered building
                   owner must meet the new building performance standard.

    III.C. Each month that a covered building owner fails to demonstrate
           compliance with the building performance standards or demonstrate
           progress towards meeting the building performance standards, as set forth
           in Section III.A., constitutes an independent violation and may subject the
           covered building owner to additional civil penalties under 25-7-122, C.R.S.
           (2022), beyond the penalties specified in Part E. and, in addition to civil
           penalties, a requirement to perform one or more projects to mitigate
           violations related to excess emissions of greenhouse gas emissions.
           Covered building owners in violation of this Section III. may also be
           subject to injunctive relief under § 25-7-121, C.R.S. (2022).




                                                                                      36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



PART D        Recordkeeping

I.    Covered building owners must maintain the following records for a period of
      seven (7) years and make records available to the Division or CEO upon request.

      I.A.    ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager account data in Part B, Section I.

      I.B.    Evidence of requests the covered building owner has made to obtain
              tenant energy use data from any separately metered spaces in Part B,
              Section II.

      I.C.    Any additional information pertaining to the building’s energy data and
              space use entered into ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager in Part B,
              Section I.

      I.D.    Demonstration of compliance with the chosen compliance pathway(s) in
              Part C, Section I. for a covered building, including results from the
              ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in
              spreadsheet (.xlsx) files downloaded from the calculator, if applicable.

      I.E.    Any waiver or adjustment submissions in regard to compliance or non-
              compliance in Part B, Section II. and Part C, Section II.

      I.F.    Records of any upgrades made to comply with the building performance
              standards requirements (e.g., receipts, invoices).

      I.G.    Any other information included in the building performance standards
              requirements.

II.   Change of ownership

      II.A.   The owner of a covered building must disclose to a prospective buyer prior
              to the sale of the building the covered building’s compliance status,
              including compliance with performance targets; any approved waivers,
              exemptions, extensions, or adjustments; and any penalties assessed.

      II.B.   The owner of a covered building must provide all records specified in Part
              D, Section I. to the new building owner upon closing.




                                                                                         37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



PART E         Penalties

I.      Beginning January 1, 2024, a covered building owner who does not submit a
        benchmarking report in accordance with Part B, Section I. or meet the building
        sale or lease requirements in 25-7-142(6), C.R.S. (2022), is subject to a civil
        penalty of up to $500 for a first violation and up to $2,000 for each subsequent
        violation.

II.     Beginning January 1, 2024, a covered building owner whose building fails to
        meet the building performance standards in Part C is subject to a civil penalty of
        up to $2,000 for a first violation and up to $5,000 for each subsequent violation.

III.    Public building owners are not subject to civil penalties under this Part E or under
        25-7-122.

PART F         Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.      Adopted: August 17, 2023

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act § 24-4-103, the Colorado
Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air
Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules.

Basis

The Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 28, Building Benchmarking and
Performance Standards, to satisfy the requirements the General Assembly in House Bill
21-1286 (Concerning Measures to Improve Energy Efficiency) (HB 21-1286), set forth in
§ 25-7-142, C.R.S., directing the Commission’s adoption of building benchmarking and
performance standards for covered buildings by September 1, 2023.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act § 25-7-142(7) authorizes the
Commission to promulgate rules to implement the benchmarking program established in
HB 21-1286. § 25-7-142(8)(c) directs the Commission to adopt rules to establish
building performance standards on or before September 1, 2023, “that will achieve a
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [7%] by 2026 as compared to 2021 levels”
and “a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [20%] by 2030 as compared to 2021
levels,” as set forth in § 25-7-142(8). § 25-7-105(1)(e) authorizes the Commission to
promulgate implementing rules and regulations to abate greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-
102(2)(g). In adopting GHG abatement strategies and implementing rules, the
Commission is authorized to take into account other relevant laws and rules to enhance
efficiency and cost-effectiveness and solicit input from other state agencies and
stakeholders on the advantages of different statewide GHG pollution mitigation



                                                                                           38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


measures, see §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(II) and (IV). Implementing rules may include
regulatory strategies that incentivize development of renewable resources and
“enhance cost-effectiveness, compliance flexibility, and transparency around
compliance costs,” see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V). Further, in promulgating such implementing
rules, the Commission is to consider many factors, including, but not limited to, health,
environmental, and air quality benefits and costs; the relative contribution of each
source or source category to statewide GHG pollution; equitable distribution of the
benefits of compliance; issues related to the beneficial use of electricity to reduce GHG
emissions; and whether greater or more cost-effective emission reductions are available
through program design, see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(VI).

§ 25-7-109(1) authorizes the Commission to adopt and promulgate emission control
regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for each type
of facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of
air pollutants. An “emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its
terms is applicable to a specified type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of
controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted from such type of facility,
process, or activity. . . .”, see § 25-7-103(11). Emission control regulations may pertain
to any chemical compound including GHG pollution, see § 25-7-109(2)(c).

§§ 24-38.5-112(1) and 24-38.5-112(1)(a) require the Colorado Energy Office (CEO) to
implement a building performance program and to use “county assessor records and
other available sources of information” to administer the building performance program.
§ 24-38.5-112(1)(a)(I)-(IV) requires CEO to create a database of covered buildings and
of owners required to comply with the building performance program; track compliance
with the building performance program; maintain a list of noncompliant owners; and
provide the Division a list of noncompliant owners for the Division's enforcement of the
building performance program pursuant to § 25-7-122(1)(i). The building benchmarking
and performance standards rule was collaboratively drafted by the Division and CEO
before it was brought before the Commission. CEO is responsible for the
implementation and continuation of the building benchmarking and performance
standards requirements while the Division is responsible for enforcement of the rule.

Purpose

The Commission established building benchmarking and building performance
standards (BPS) as one means to track and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
in the built environment from a 2021 baseline. Buildings constructed after 2021 that
would be considered covered buildings under this regulation will also be required to
meet the building benchmarking and performance standards. To demonstrate
compliance with the BPS, the Commission adopted a flexible, compliance pathway
based approach to reducing emissions through improvements in energy efficiency, high-
efficiency electrification of space heating and cooling and water heating, or a combined
approach that may also include the installation of customer-owned retail distributed
generation systems. In adopting the BPS, the Commission considered the
recommendations of the Building Energy Performance Task Force (BPS Task Force)
convened by the Colorado Energy Office (CEO), as directed by HB 21-1286. Pursuant



                                                                                          39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II), the Commission is, by rule, adopting performance standards that
meet the requisite GHG emission reductions.

Applicability

New Buildings

Buildings constructed after 2021 that would be considered covered buildings under this
regulation will also be required to meet the building benchmarking and performance
standards. Buildings constructed after 2021 must start collecting benchmarking data
once the owner has received a certificate of occupancy for the building. A new building
must comply with its applicable building performance target by the specified target date.

Public Buildings

Public buildings become subject to the building performance standards of this regulation
only after undertaking a construction or renovation project that has an estimated cost of
at least $500,000 and impacts at least twenty-five percent of the covered building’s
square footage. A construction or renovation project that will trigger compliance with the
building performance standards either (1) impacts a square footage of twenty-five
percent or greater or (2) impacts an area of that size or greater through changes to
heating and cooling systems, insulative measures, changes to the building envelope, or
other such measures. For purposes of this rule, the “project” shall be the aggregation of
any construction or renovation work on a public building that is part of the same bidding
process, happens contemporaneously or sequentially within an eighteen month period,
or that would otherwise be reasonably considered to be part of or substantially related
to the same project.

Public buildings constructed after 2021 that would be considered covered buildings
under this regulation will also be required to meet the building benchmarking and
performance standards. Public buildings constructed after 2021 must start collecting
benchmarking data once the owner has received a certificate of occupancy for the
building. Public buildings constructed after 2021 must comply with the building
performance standards requirements if the construction has an estimated cost of at
least $500,000.

In situations where a public entity shares its building space with other non-public
entities, the owner of the covered building, whether the public entity or not, is still
required to report benchmarking data. In multi-owner situations, the party responsible
for compliance will be the owner listed in the tax assessor’s records for that building and
must comply with building performance standards if the covered building has a shared,
centralized heating and/or cooling system. If a public entity leases a covered building or
a portion of a covered building, the building owner is responsible for compliance with the
benchmarking and building performance standards. Whether the public entity may also
have some responsibility related to compliance will depend on the lease arrangement
between the public entity and the building owner, as with any other owner-tenant
situation.




                                                                                        40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


Condominiums and Townhomes

§ 25-7-142(2)(j)(II)(C) states that “a single-family home, duplex, or triplex” is not a
covered building under the building benchmarking and performance standards.
Properties such as townhomes and condominiums are similar to single-family homes,
duplexes, or triplexes in that the condominium or townhome units within the envelope of
a building are individually owned units and may have their own heating and cooling
systems. However, condominium or townhome buildings differ from a single-family
home in both the energy usage and, thus, the potential opportunity to reduce energy
use and associated building greenhouse gas emissions when the condominiums or
townhomes share a centralized heating and/or cooling system. Therefore, the
Commission determined that condominiums or townhomes that share a building or
together comprise a building, are covered under the building benchmarking and
performance standards if they have shared centralized heating and cooling systems for
water or air conditioning throughout the units of the building. The party responsible for
compliance for covered buildings composed of condominiums or townhomes, or any
covered building with split ownership, will be the owner listed in the tax assessor’s
records for that building whether it be a person, group, organization, or business. Where
tax records do not clearly identify a single owner, the person holding themselves out to
be the owner or responsible party may be identified through other means.

Federal Buildings

The Commission has determined that federal buildings are subject to and must comply
with the Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements in Part B of this rule.

The Commission recognizes that there is currently a Federal Building Performance
Standard that establishes 2030 and 2045 goals for reducing emissions from federal
buildings. As long as the Federal Building Performance Standard is in effect, federal
buildings that would be covered by the Colorado Building Performance should instead
comply with the requirements of the Federal Performance Standard. However, the
Commission reserves the right to regulate federal buildings in the event that the Federal
Building Performance Standard is modified or eliminated.”

Benchmarking

In Part B, the Commission adopted requirements for owners of covered buildings to
submit energy-use benchmarking data. Using benchmarking data to create baseline
energy usage allows building owners to track and measure their energy usage in
relation to prior years and progress towards performance standard targets established
in Part C.

Annual Reporting

§ 25-7-142(3) requires owners of covered buildings to annually submit, starting June 1,
2024, and by June 1 of each year thereafter, benchmarking data for the previous
calendar year to CEO. Buildings constructed after 2021 will be required to submit
benchmarking reports starting with the first full year of data after the building has started



                                                                                          41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


operating. This data must include all of the applicable building data required by the rule
and data quality checks to ensure that the data is correct and accurate. Building owners
must also include any change in building information in the annual reporting such as
changes to property type or building ownership. Certain building owners may be allowed
to benchmark their buildings as a campus if they meet the requirements for campus
reporting in Part B. Covered building owners must include in the 2027 benchmarking
data report a demonstration that the covered building met the 2026 building
performance standard requirements as provided in Part C; the same applies to 2031
reporting with respect to the 2030 building performance standard requirements.

Currently, there is no option in the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager for a building to
select “marijuana cultivation facility” in the building type field when reporting
benchmarking data. CEO has never exempted marijuana cultivation facilities from any
reporting requirements. Denver has recently made changes to its program and directed
marijuana cultivation facilities to select “manufacturing” in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio
Manager when reporting benchmarking data. Consistent with Denver’s program,
Regulation Number 28 specifies that marijuana cultivation facilities must report their
property type as “manufacturing” in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager and that
marijuana cultivation facilities that are covered buildings will be assigned an
individualized target for purposes of complying with the building performance standards
should the facility owner choose not to comply with the standard percent reduction
compliance pathway. To avoid confusion, the definition of “manufacturing purpose”
explicitly excludes these facilities for the purpose of the exemption from the definition of
“covered building” in Section III.O.2.

Waivers, Extensions, and Exemptions

§ 25-7-142(5) allows covered building owners to seek a waiver or time extension from
the annual benchmarking requirement for a given year if the owner submits waiver
documentation to, and receives approval from, CEO. Building owners eligible for the
2021 benchmarking waiver will automatically be assigned an energy-use intensity (EUI)
target. A covered building owner may also request a benchmarking time extension from
CEO if the owner submits documentation to CEO demonstrating that, despite the
owner's good-faith efforts, the owner was unable to complete the benchmarking report
for the relevant year. This allows the building owner more time to aggregate their
building’s benchmarking data so they can submit at a later date. Covered building
owners must submit a waiver application to CEO any time after June 1 of the calendar
year to be benchmarked and on or before May 1 of the reporting year, unless CEO
adopts an alternate timeline for submitting a waiver application.

The Commission also adopted provisions for building owners to seek an exemption
from CEO if the building does not meet the definition in § 25-7-142(2)(j) of a covered
building (i.e., storage facilities, stand-alone parking garages, or airplane hangars that
lack heating and cooling; buildings with more than half of the gross floor area used for
manufacturing, industrial, or agricultural purposes). The adoption of these exemption
provisions recognize that building uses may change over time and that building owners




                                                                                          42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


may want documented clarity of whether or not the building is subject to the
benchmarking requirements.

Building Performance Standards (BPS)

Building performance standards create energy performance targets, such as a specific
level of energy usage or reduction for buildings to meet after a set amount of time.
These standards help drive energy efficiency improvements and reduce energy use and
resulting GHG emissions over the course of implementation.

BPS Task Force Recommendations

Pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(a), CEO convened the BPS Task Force to develop
recommendations for the Commission to consider when adopting rules for building
performance. CEO timely delivered the BPS Task Force recommendations to the
Governor’s Office, General Assembly, and Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment by October 1, 2022, consistent with § 25-7-142(8). The recommendations
made by the BPS Task Force, and included in the report, were approved by two-thirds
of the BPS Task Force members. These recommendations are available on the
Colorado Energy Office’s (CEO) Building Performance Standards website under the
Task Force Recommendations.

In developing the recommendations, the BPS Task Force was comprised of members
with experience from a broad range of industries and building owners; examined
building types of unique energy needs including aviation facilities, nursing homes, and
hospitals; and considered how the performance standards and the greenhouse gas
reductions would not include savings from statewide decarbonization of electricity or
natural gas utility grids but include savings from utilities' or local governments' energy
efficiency programs.

The BPS Task Force also made recommendations related to workforce availability and
development related to building energy performance; financial and nonfinancial costs
and benefits of upgraded building energy performance; availability of programs,
technical assistance, and incentives to support building owners, utilities, and local
governments; opportunities to improve commercial building energy use in Colorado;
how regulations and agency support could help ensure building owners avoid fines
through compliance with performance standards.

Rule Design and GHG Emissions Reductions

Enacting a building performance regulation to reduce GHG emissions ensures that
large building owners participate in the reduction of emissions from the built
environment. Building energy usage and GHG emissions are correlative, which allows
for building performance standards to influence consumer decisions and therefore
induce reductions of statewide building emissions. The Commission adopted building
performance standards that will require covered buildings to implement measures that,
taken together, are expected to achieve GHG emission reductions from this segment of
covered buildings in the building sector of 7% by 2026 and 20% by 2030, as compared



                                                                                         43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


to 2021 levels. Based on benchmarking data reporting 2021 data in 2022, covered
buildings subject to these rules were responsible for approximately 8,878,000 metric
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions resulting from the energy consumption of
those buildings.

Pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II), the Commission adopted performance standards to
meet the requisite GHG emission reductions. In calculating the statewide GHG emission
reductions anticipated to result from these regulations, the changes in emissions are not
separate from those realized by the utilities as part of the statewide GHG inventory. This
overlap in emissions impacts is recognized in § 25-7-142(8)(a)(IV), which directs that
“[i]n calculating greenhouse gas reductions pursuant to § 25-7-42(8), the calculation
must not include savings from statewide decarbonization of electricity or natural gas
utility grids, but may include savings from utilities' or local governments' energy
efficiency programs.” Thus, while these rules are anticipated to drive GHG emission
reductions to meet the targets, it is important to note that these reductions will not be
independently reflected in the statewide GHG inventory but rather as one means of
reducing emissions attributable to energy consumption by driving down demand and
consumption of carbon-intense energy sources. It is also important to note that the
greenhouse gas targets from § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A) and § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(B) must be
adjusted to account for the addition of future building stock. Factoring the increase of
new building stock into the greenhouse gas emissions targets means that the initial
targets would need to be increased from 7% by 2026 and 20% by 2030 to 9.6% by 2026
and 23% by 2030.

Accordingly, the compliance pathways provided for in Part C are designed to provide
owners of covered buildings flexibility in compliance based on the unique characteristics
of each individual building while also ensuring that overall compliance will accomplish
the GHG emissions reduction targets in § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A) and § 25-7-
142(8)(a)(II)(B). The building performance standard requirements adopted by the
Commission allow for different metrics to be measured against a 2021 baseline so that
progress can be tracked and compared to the GHG emission reduction targets. Owners
of covered buildings must meet and maintain compliance with the 2026 targets each
year from 2026 through 2029 until the covered buildings must meet and maintain the
2030 targets. Owners of covered buildings must meet and maintain compliance with the
2030 targets each year from 2030 on until future targets are established for beyond
2030.

Compliance Pathways

In Part C, Sections I.A. and I.B., the Commission adopted two compliance pathways for
covered building owners to comply with performance standards: energy efficiency and
greenhouse gas reductions. Improving energy efficiency is the preferred compliance
pathway. This compliance pathway requires building owners to implement energy
efficient changes or upgrades to their buildings to reduce the building’s EUI to meet the
building’s assigned weather normalized site EUI target. Improving site EUI reduces
GHG emissions by reducing demand for gas and electric service and, therefore,
reducing the emissions from the generation or consumption of that energy. In Part C,



                                                                                       44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


Table 1, the Commission established weather normalized site EUI by property type that
covered buildings are to achieve by 2026 as an interim performance standard, pursuant
to § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II). The 2026 weather normalized site EUI targets in Table 1 were
determined to represent a 7% reduction in GHG emissions across covered buildings as
compared to the baseline, after accounting for growth of new construction, established
through the 2021 benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO. The 2030
weather normalized site EUI targets in Table 1 were determined to represent a 20%
reduction in GHG emissions across covered buildings as compared to the baseline,
after accounting for growth, established through the 2021 benchmarking data collected
and analyzed by CEO.

In Part C, Section I.A.3., the Commission adopted a standard percent reduction
compliance pathway option to the energy efficiency compliance pathway that allows
covered buildings to meet and maintain fixed EUI reductions by the 2026 and 2030
compliance periods. Buildings complying with the energy efficiency standard percent
reduction compliance pathway must reduce their EUI by 13% in 2026 and by 29% by
2030 from their 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked baseline weather-normalized
EUI.

For existing buildings that did not submit a 2021 benchmarking report, the building will
be subject to the weather normalized EUI target for the property type as identified in tax
records that was established as the average of the data submitted by the similar
building types. In calculating site EUI targets, where sufficient data for a particular
building type was lacking in the 2021 benchmarking baseline, other national and local
building energy data sets, such as ENERGY STAR and the Commercial Buildings
Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), were used to determine the EUI target for that
property type. Under this compliance pathway, buildings constructed after 2021 must
also comply with their property type EUI target. If a new building is unable to provide
benchmarking data, the building will be assigned a EUI target for the property type as
identified in tax records based on similar property types that benchmarked their data or
from the Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS).

The demonstration of compliance with the energy efficiency compliance pathway will be
completed through the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager tool that will provide a
building owner with a covered building’s weather-normalized site EUI.

Under Part C, Section I.B., a covered building unable to achieve the required GHG
emission reductions through the compliance pathway of energy efficiency may achieve
the required GHG emission reductions and demonstrate compliance individually or
through a combination of energy efficiency, electrification, and/or the use of customer-
owned retail distributed generation systems to offset grid-based electricity.
Electrification requires covered building owners to replace or avoid fossil fuel-based
space heating, water heating, or cooking equipment by using high efficiency electric
equipment. High efficiency electric equipment means using electrical equipment with
less required energy to perform the same function by eliminating energy waste. For
example, high-efficiency electric equipment may be certified according to ENERGY
STAR, meet Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) efficiency requirements,



                                                                                        45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


meet the current version of American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-
Conditioning Engineers’ (ASHRAE) Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021 International Energy
Conservation Code (IECC), or meet newer such requirements. Electrification also
reduces emissions by shifting fossil fuel-based building end-uses to the electrical grid,
which is a lower-emitting energy supply source that will achieve deeper emissions
reduction as the grid is progressively supplied by greater amounts of renewable energy.
The Commission encourages the building owner to coordinate and communicate with
their utility provider if the building is planning on implementing full or significant
electrification of the building.

In Part C, Section I.B.2., the Commission adopted a standard percent reduction
compliance pathway option to the GHG intensity reduction compliance pathway that
allows covered buildings to meet and maintain fixed GHG intensity reductions by the
2026 and 2030 compliance periods. Buildings complying with the GHG intensity
standard percent reduction compliance pathway must reduce their GHG intensity by
13% in 2026 and by 29% by 2030 from their 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked
baseline that has been converted to a GHG intensity value. Building owner’s choosing
to use the GHG intensity standard percent reduction compliance pathway will calculate
their building’s baseline year emissions and their 2026 and/or 2030 emissions using the
ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager’s Building Emissions Calculator and apply a
Colorado-specific emission factor for electricity use in the calculator for the baseline
year and years 2023 to 2026 and a separate Colorado-specific emission factor for the
baseline year and years 2027 and beyond, and compare the difference between the
baseline year calculation and the target year calculation to determine the percent
reduction. Both of these emission factors reflect the statewide decarbonization of the
electricity utility grid and ensures that the building’s 2021 baseline and 2026 and/or
2030 reductions reflect the same status in grid decarbonization.

Customer-owned retail distributed generation allows a building to develop renewable
resources to reduce use of grid-based energy and therefore reduce some portion of the
building’s emissions; however, the use of renewable resources may only be used as a
compliance mechanism after the covered building owner has exhausted other options.
A covered building owner using distributed generation must demonstrate ownership or
long-term control of the resource for covered building owners that choose the GHG
intensity compliance pathway. The following forms of retail distributed generation
recognized under 40-2-124(1)(a)(VIII) are eligible for compliance after demonstrating in
an energy audit that a building owner has maximized the economic use of energy
efficiency and electrification and exhausted cost-effective compliance measures for the
covered building.

          •   On-site renewable energy.

          •   Off-site renewable energy that is located on non-contiguous property
              owned or leased by the covered building owner consistent with the off-site
              net metering program authorized by 40-2-124(1)(e)(I)(C).




                                                                                       46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


          •   A community solar garden subscription consistent with 40-2-127(2), so
              long as the covered building owner has a subscription term of at least five
              years. A covered building owner must maintain the subscription in order to
              maintain compliance.

          •   On-site aggregated net metering distributed generation installations
              recognized under 40-2-124(1)(j), including master metered net metering
              installations and individually metered multi-unit net metering installations.

Customer-owned retail distributed generation systems, retail distributed generation, and
energy procured through a power purchase agreement may be counted toward
compliance if the covered building owner retains the renewable energy credits (RECs)
associated with the project, or if the RECs associated with the project are retired on the
covered building owner’s behalf for no more than the amount of electricity produced by
the customer-owned retail distributed generation system or retail distributed generation,
or procured through a power purchase agreement that is consumed by the building.
Legacy projects where RECs were transferred to the utility as a term of the project to
decrease upfront costs may also be used for compliance if the covered building owner
procures and retires RECs from another renewable energy resource located within
Colorado that do not exceed the amount of energy produced by the covered building
owner’s legacy system and consumed by the covered building.

The Commission recognized the need for additional flexibility for under-resourced
buildings and allowed the owners of under-resourced buildings to use utility subscription
services as a compliance measure after the owner has exhausted cost-effective energy
efficiency and electrification measures as demonstrated in an energy audit. Under-
resourced building owners are the only covered building owners that may use utility
subscription services as a compliance measure within the GHG intensity compliance
pathway in this regulatory program.

Other forms of renewable energy may be considered in the compliance pathway in
consultation with CEO. For example, using wastewater thermal energy recovery
systems may result in a reduced energy usage for the building that would be reflected in
the building’s benchmarking data and GHG emissions but not as a REC. Similarly, a
demand response or demand flexibility program may be considered as a means to
reduce a covered building’s overall EUI, so long as there is adequate information to
demonstrate the reduction in GHG emissions. The building benchmarking and
performance standards overall goal is to lower a building’s greenhouse gas emissions
and other forms of renewable generation or recovery can allow a building to do that by
reducing reliance on other forms of emissions-generating sources for a building even if
the renewable generation or recovery is not directly accounted for in the benchmarking
tool. CEO will work with the Division and stakeholders when considering other programs
and emerging technologies that can be used to reduce the EUI and/or greenhouse gas
emissions of buildings in the future.

In order to demonstrate compliance with the GHG emissions reduction compliance
pathway, building owners must use the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager’s Building



                                                                                          47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


Emissions Calculator and report the results for a covered building from the calculator.
The reporting must be accomplished by downloading the results from the calculator in a
spreadsheet (.xlsx) file that is submitted to CEO. If utilizing electrification to demonstrate
compliance through this compliance pathway, the applicable 2023 through 2026 or 2027
and beyond Colorado-specific emission factor for electricity must be used and will be
specified in the calculator. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) operates
both ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager and the Building Emissions Calculator, which
are currently separate tools, but these tools are able to work together. However, EPA is
planning to integrate the functionality of the Building Emissions Calculator directly into
ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager at which point calculations of a covered building’s
GHG emissions for demonstrating compliance with the GHG emissions reduction
compliance pathway may be completed using the calculator functionality in ENERGY
STAR® Portfolio Manager and its associated reporting function.

In Part C, Table 1, the Commission established greenhouse gas emission targets by
property type for this compliance pathway that covered buildings must achieve by 2026
and 2030, pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II). The 2026 greenhouse gas emission targets
in Table 1 were determined to represent a 7% reduction in GHG emissions as
compared to the baseline, accounting for growth, established through the 2021
benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO. The 2030 greenhouse gas
emission targets in Table 1 were determined to represent a 20% reduction in GHG
emissions as compared to the baseline, accounting for growth, established through the
2021 benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO.

In Part C, Sections I.C. and I.D., the Commission adopted processes for the
establishment of individual targets for certain categories of covered buildings,
specifically mixed use buildings as defined in Part A, Section III.DD., data centers,
buildings with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging stations that are not able to be
sub-metered, and marijuana cultivation facilities. At the time of rule adoption, the
Commission did not have data available to establish property type targets for these
buildings in Table 1 that would enable compliance with energy efficiency of greenhouse
gas intensity reduction pathways. Mixed use buildings may identify a primary property
type in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager where one property type accounts for more
than 50% of the building’s gross floor area. However, due to the variety of potential
energy needs of the different property types represented in the building, CEO will assign
an individualized target to every mixed use building as defined in Part A, Section III.DD.
that does not use the standard percent reduction compliance pathway. The
individualized target will be based on the percentage of gross floor area assigned to
each property type in the building and other factors detailed in Part C, Section I.D. CEO
will use each building’s ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager benchmarking report to
track compliance with these individualized targets.

Data centers will be assigned a power usage effectiveness (PUE) target, due to the
unique energy needs of such buildings. CEO will only assign stand-alone data centers a
PUE target, as outlined in Part C, Section I.C. Mixed use buildings that include a data
center will be assigned an individualized target pursuant to Part C, Section I.D.
Buildings with EV charging stations that are not able to be sub-metered will be assigned



                                                                                           48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


a target representative of the building’s energy use minus the EV charging station
energy use. EPA is planning to add functionality to ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager
for building owners to exclude the energy use of EV charging stations, which would
allow both a recalculation of the building’s 2021 baseline and future reporting to exclude
EV charging station energy use via reporting rather than through the individualized
target process. Electricity used for EV charging, regardless of whether it is sub-metered,
is intended to be excluded from energy use by covered buildings under this program.
Lastly, as discussed above, marijuana cultivation facilities will select the property type of
manufacturing in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager. However, because a
manufacturing property type target may not be appropriate for such facilities, CEO will
assign an individualized target at the facility owners’ request for each marijuana
cultivation facility based on the facility’s gross floor area and energy usage. As with
mixed use buildings, data centers, marijuana cultivation facilities, and covered buildings
with EV charging are also not limited from complying the compliance pathways in Part
C, Sections I.A. or I.B.

The BPS Task Force recommendations suggested consideration of the possibility of
demand response/flexibility as an additional compliance pathway to help achieve the
GHG emission reductions because the technologies shift the building’s energy demand
to non-peak times. Grid-interactive efficient buildings are energy efficient buildings that
use smart technologies, batteries, and on-site distributed energy resources to provide
demand flexibility while co-optimizing for energy cost, grid services, and occupant
needs and preferences in a continuous and integrated way. At the time these rules were
adopted, there was insufficient infrastructure and no standardized industry methodology
for measuring a building’s demand response/flexibility capabilities to support demand
response/flexibility as a compliance pathway. However, the Commission recognizes the
value in demand response/flexibility integration in buildings to better control building
energy use and encourages the continued investigation into potentially crediting
covered buildings for the use of these programs in the future.

Compliance Adjustments

Under Part C, Section II., when a covered building cannot achieve compliance with the
building performance standards through the compliance pathways, the Commission
adopted a process by which the covered building owner may request timeline and/or
performance target adjustments. Section II. provides examples of circumstances under
which a covered building owner may apply for a compliance adjustment. The following
provides some demonstrative context for those requirements.

          •   “Cost prohibitive” refers to the steps that a building owner would need to
              take to demonstrate the cost of compliance is higher than the benefit.

If the equipment has a resale/salvage value, the cost of that equipment is the upfront
cost minus the salvage value. If the buyer has obtained incentives (utility, local, state, or
federal) for buying the equipment, then the cost of the equipment is further reduced by
the amount of the incentive received. The cost of installing the equipment and the cost




                                                                                           49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


of its upkeep during its useful life are then added to that cost figure to determine the
overall cost of the equipment.

The benefits of installing the equipment include reduced energy use and reduced
emissions. The dollar amount of that energy savings is determined by multiplying the
amount of energy saved by the price of energy of the applicable fuel as forecasted by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration for the target year of compliance plus
anticipated demand response savings.

The social cost of greenhouse gases are the most recent assessment of the social cost
for those greenhouse gases for which the federal government has determined the cost.
However, it cannot be below the figure set in 2016 using a two and one-half percent
discount rate as established by the federal interagency working group on the social cost
of carbon. The dollar value of emission reduction is determined by multiplying the
amount of emission reduction in metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent by the social
cost of greenhouse gases. The total benefit associated with installing equipment is,
thus, determined by adding the dollar amounts of energy savings and of emission
reduction using the social cost of greenhouse gases.

Whereas some of the costs and benefits are obtained in the year the equipment is
installed, the rest occur over the useful life span of that equipment. Because
benefits/costs that occur in the future are not valued the same way as benefits/costs
that occur in the year of investment, those figures have to be discounted so that their
present value equivalents can be determined. If the equipment has a two-year useful
life, any benefit/cost that is incurred in the second year is discounted using the following
formula:

       Present Value = Future Value

                       (1+r)2

In calculating present value, “r” is the discount rate (e.g., when using a 2.5% discount
rate, use 0.025) and “2” is used in this example because the benefit/cost is occurring in
the second year. This calculation provides the second year’s benefits/costs in the
present year’s terms. Adding the first year’s value and the present value version of the
benefit/cost that occurred in the second year provides the equipment’s benefit/cost over
its useful lifetime of 2 years. For benefits/costs that are incurred/obtained in the third,
fourth, and other years in the equipment’s useful life, use 3, and 4, and others as
applicable. Applying this procedure to each benefit and cost item results in the total net
present value of cost and benefits associated with that equipment. If the total present
value of the benefit is higher than the present value of cost, then this equipment is not
cost prohibitive. If the present value of the cost is higher than the present value of
benefit, then the equipment is cost prohibitive.

          •   “Inherent and unique characteristics” refer to qualities specific to an
              individual building that limits the building from complying with the building
              performance standards (e.g., age, design, distinct features, physical




                                                                                           50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


              characteristics). These traits are not generalized between building types,
              are unique to the applicable building, and must be approved by CEO
              before receiving a compliance adjustment.

          •   “Significant variations in operations from a standard building in that
              building type category” refers to a building that belongs to a certain
              building type category that may not have the same building function,
              design, or construction as other buildings in the same category.

          •   “Under-resourced building” refers to a building with less access to
              resources, including revenues, funding, grants, or gifts that can help with
              building operations or to comply with the requirements of this rule, than
              other buildings within the same building type in the same utility service
              territory.

In addition, a covered building utilizing a novel alternative emissions reduction
technology, such as carbon capture, could qualify under the compliance adjustment
provisions as its operations would have a significant variation from other buildings
through use of such a technology. Part C, Section II. provides an avenue for
consideration of other alternative reduction technologies such as carbon capture
through the adjusted performance target provisions. Specifically, Section II.B.3.b. allows
“covered buildings with significant variations in operations from a standard building in
that building type category” to apply for an adjusted target.

Buildings seeking a compliance adjustment under Part C, Section II., must have an
energy audit performed on the building to demonstrate why the building was unable to
reach compliance. The energy audit must follow the requirements in the United States
Department of Energy’s Building Energy Audit Template, ASHRAE’s standard 211-2018
or more current level 2 audit, or an energy audit of similar requirements approved by
CEO. All energy audits submitted for compliance adjustments must be performed by an
accredited third-party auditor. Examples of acceptable energy auditor certifications are
Certified Energy Auditor (Association of Energy Engineers), Certified Energy Manager
(Association of Energy Engineers), Building Energy Assessment Professional
(ASHRAE), Energy Management Professional (Energy Management Association),
Multifamily Building Analyst (Building Performance Institute), or other energy auditor
accreditations or certification recognized or deemed equivalent by the United States
Department of Energy. The EUI target adjustment request must also include an
inventory of all existing air and water heating and cooling equipment and an inventory of
all required equipment needed to meet the building’s assigned EUI or emission target.
In approving adjustments, CEO may consider standard target adjustments based on the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) suggested methods in addition to the other
factors outlined in the target adjustment process in Part C, Sections II.B. and II.C.

Certain covered buildings in Denver receive steam from the Denver District Steam
System for a variety of purposes, including space heating, use in steam radiators, and
heating domestic hot water. At the time of this rulemaking, the Denver District Steam
System was subject to a proceeding before the Colorado Public Utilities Commission



                                                                                        51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


(Proceeding Number 22A-0382ST) regarding the operations of the system through 2030
and consideration of alternate technologies to replace the system. Acknowledging this
uncertainty and its potential impact on large capital investments, the Commission
recognizes that covered buildings on the Denver District Steam System may qualify to
apply for either a timeline or performance target adjustment. However, any such
adjustment would need to be substantiated in accordance with Part C, Section II. and
would be at the discretion of CEO.

Penalties

Pursuant to § 25-7-122(1), the Commission adopted civil penalty provisions related to a
covered building owner’s failure to comply with the benchmarking and building
performance standards requirements. § 25-7-122(1) specifies values of $2,000 for a first
violation of the performance standards and $5,000 for a second violation. In addition to
these provisions, the Commission adopted additional reporting and compliance
demonstration requirements for building owners that fail to comply with the building
performance standards, clarifying that building owners must demonstrate progress until
coming into compliance and that failure to do so may result in a finding of additional
violations. The Commission expects that the potential for these additional penalty
assessments will further incentivize covered building owner compliance.

Utility Data Reporting

§ 25-7-142(4) contains statutory requirements incumbent upon qualifying utilities
concerning the collection and provision of energy-use data for its customers, including
covered building owners and tenants. Both the definition of “qualifying utility” at § 25-7-
142(2)(u) and the duties created under § 25-7-142(4) are explicit and clear. These
provisions are enforceable as a provision of part 1 of the Act by the Commission and
Division under § 25-7-115. Furthermore, qualifying utilities providing electric service are
subject to extensive data gathering and provision requirements in the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission's (PUC) Rules Regulating Electric Utilities at 4 CCR 723-3,
Sections 3025 - 3035 concerning “Customer Data Access and Privacy.” Under these
PUC rules, customers may request the release of this information through the Consent
to Disclose Utility Customer Data form. Given these preexisting statutory and regulatory
duties governing this conduct, the Commission did not adopt any additional rules in this
regard.

Sale and Lease of Covered Buildings

§ 25-7-142(6) contains statutory requirements dependent on the sale or lease of
buildings covered under the building performance standards. If a covered building or a
portion of a covered building is for sale or lease, the covered building owner must
provide an electronic copy of the building’s reported benchmarking data to all
prospective buyers or lessees, any brokers as defined in § 12-10-201(6) C.R.S., any
person making an inquiry about the property, or any major commercial real estate listing
services on which the property is listed. The benchmarking data should be of the
building’s previous calendar year or from the most recent twelve-month period of




                                                                                         52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


continuous occupancy. If a covered building changes ownership, the former owner must
make available to the new owner the energy-use data, utility customer consent
documentation, and any other information about the property that is necessary to
benchmark the covered building. The former owner must transfer to the new owner both
the record representing the covered building’s information in the benchmarking tool and
the request to a qualified utility for aggregated data. The new owner may request and
receive from a qualifying utility the aggregated data necessary to fulfill benchmarking
reporting requirements. Given these preexisting statutory and regulatory duties
governing this conduct, the Commission did not adopt any additional rules in this
regard.

Future Year Standards

§ 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(C) granted the BPS Task Force the opportunity to provide
recommendations for “advising, soliciting public input on, and making recommendations
to the commission on performance standards for 2030 to 2050” that will align with the
State’s 2050 GHG reduction targets. The Commission understands that CEO will
continue to evaluate submitted benchmarking data as well as compliance
demonstrations to evaluate implementation and performance under this regulation and
encourages CEO to consider convening a new task force to evaluate potential future
revisions to these standards as well as to evaluate additional building performance
standards beyond 2030.

The CEO will report to the Commission on the implementation of Regulation Number 28
on a regular basis. The report may include information on benchmarking reporting
statistics, benchmarking waivers and exemptions, the number of requests for
adjustments received and the number of adjustments granted, and other information
regarding program implementation. The Division will also report to the Commission on
the implementation of Regulation Number 28 on a regular basis to provide updates on
progress towards meeting the 2026 and 2030 targets, penalties, and any other
information regarding program implementation.

The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment will undertake future
rulemakings as needed after evaluating implementation of the rule and its effectiveness
in achieving statutory greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, and make needed
improvements, including in 2027 or early 2028 as informed by the compliance data for
the 2026 targets.

Finally, the Commission recognizes that Regulation Number 28 is a new program and
will apply to many entities that have not previously been subject to rules promulgated by
the Commission. Throughout this rule, language has been developed to ensure that this
rule provides reasonable flexibilities and is cost-effective for owners of covered
buildings, including approving, where appropriate, adjustments to performance targets
and timelines which may extend beyond 2030, while simultaneously ensuring that the
state will meet the targets established in § 25-7- 142(8)(c).




                                                                                      53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable)

The revisions to Regulation Number 28 do not exceed or differ from the requirements of
the federal act or rules, therefore, 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings of Fact

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gasses related to building performance.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.

II.     Adopted: September 17-19, 2025

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act 24-4-103, the Colorado Air
Pollution Prevention and Control Act 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air Quality
Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules.

Basis

In 2023, the Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 28, Building Benchmarking
and Performance Standards, to satisfy the requirements the General Assembly in
House Bill 21-1286 (Concerning Measures to Improve Energy Efficiency) (HB 21-1286),
set forth in Section 25-7-142, C.R.S. In this rulemaking, the Commission adopted
technical corrections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Section 25-7-142(7) authorizes
the Commission to promulgate rules to implement the benchmarking program
established in HB 21-1286. Section 25-7-142(8)(c) directs the Commission to adopt
rules to establish building performance standards on or before September 1, 2023, “that
will achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [7%] by 2026 as compared to




                                                                                          54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission


2021 levels” and “a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [20%] by 2030 as
compared to 2021 levels,” as set forth in Section 25-7-142(8). Section 25-7-105(1)(e)
authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and regulations to abate
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with the statewide GHG pollution
reduction goals in Section 25-7-102(2)(g). Section 25-7-109(1) authorizes the
Commission to adopt and promulgate emission control regulations that require the use
of effective practical air pollution controls for each type of facility, process, or activity
which produces or might produce significant emissions of air pollutants. Section 25-7-
106(6) authorizes the Commission to require owners or operators of air pollution
sources to monitor, record, and report information.

Purpose

The Commission established building benchmarking and building performance
standards (BPS) as one means to track and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
in the built environment. As part of the rulemaking in 2023, the Commission expanded
the provisions related to utility subscription services to all covered buildings in Part C,
Section I.B.1., instead of just under-resourced buildings. However, the Commission’s
decision on this point was not reflected in the final regulatory language or the adopted
Statement of Basis and Purpose at the conclusion of the rulemaking hearing and as
submitted to the Secretary of State for publication. Therefore, the Commission now
adopted a technical correction to align the language in Section I.B.1.d. with the
language in Section I.B.1., as the Commission intended, and clarifies that the
Commission’s recognition of the need for additional flexibility as related to utility
subscription services as a compliance measure applies to all covered buildings and not
just under-resources buildings.

The Commission revised the definition of covered building to exempt agricultural
buildings, to align with SB 25-039.

The Commission also revised the date under which the annual fee is required to
November 1 of each year, starting in 2026. HB 21-1286, in Section 24-38.5-112, C.R.S.,
specifies that each covered building owner must pay an annual fee of $100 per covered
building. However, HB 21-1286 did not specify the deadline for collecting this fee. Prior
to this revision, the fee was due by June 1. The Commission revised the date to
November 1 to align with pending legislation in HB 25-1269.

Further, these revisions include any typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors
throughout the regulation.

Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable)

The revisions to Regulation Number 28 do not exceed or differ from the requirements of
the federal act or rules, therefore, 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.




                                                                                            55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



Findings of Fact

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gasses related to building performance.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired
        results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.




                                                                                          56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                       5 CCR 1001-32
Air Quality Control Commission



Editor’s Notes

History

New rule eff. 10/15/2023.
Rules Part A, III O.2, III O.4, IV A, Part C, I B.1.d, I B.1.d(i), 1 B.1.d(ii), II F, Part F II eff.
11/14/2025.




                                                                                                  57
