CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado



    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 25

    CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SURFACE COATING, SOLVENTS, ASPHALT,
    GRAPHIC ARTS AND PRINTING, AND PHARMACEUTICALS
    5 CCR 1001-29

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    ______________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation
    PART A        Applicability and General Provisions

           I.     Applicability

           II.    General Provisions

    Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas

    PART B    Surface Coating, Solvents, Asphalt, Graphic Arts and Printing, and
         Pharmaceuticals

           I.     Surface Coating Operations

           II.    Solvent Use

           III.   Use of Cutback Asphalt

           IV.    Graphic Arts and Printing
           V.     Pharmaceutical Synthesis

    Appendix D Minimum Cooling Capacities for Refrigerated Freeboard Chillers on Vapor
         Degreasers

    Appendix E Emission Limit Conversion Procedure

    PART C        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

    ______________________________________________________________________




                                                                                     1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated
by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. The
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
later amendments.




                                                                                       2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

PART A        Applicability and General Provisions

I.     Applicability

I.A.

       I.A.1. The provisions of this regulation shall apply as follows:
              I.A.1.a.      All provisions of this regulation apply to the Denver 1-hour
                     ozone attainment/maintenance area, to any nonattainment area for
                     the 1-hour ozone standard, to the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and
                     to northern Weld County.

              I.A.1.b.      (State Only) All provisions of this regulation apply to any
                     ozone nonattainment area, which includes areas designated
                     nonattainment for either the 1-hour or 8-hour ozone standard,
                     unless otherwise specified in Section I.A.1.c. Colorado’s ozone
                     nonattainment or attainment maintenance area maps and
                     chronologies of attainment status are identified in Appendix A of
                     this regulation.

              I.A.1.c.      The provisions marked by (State Only) are not federally
                      enforceable, unless otherwise identified.

       I.A.2. REPEALED

       I.A.3. REPEALED

I.B.   Sources

       I.B.1. New Sources
              I.B.1.a.       New sources, defined as any sources located in the 1-hour
                     ozone nonattainment area or attainment maintenance area, which
                     either (1) submit a complete permit application on or after October
                     30, 1989, or (2) if no permit is required, commence operation on or
                     after October 30, 1989, must comply with the provisions of this
                     regulation upon commencement of operation.

              I.B.1.b.       (State Only) New sources are any sources which
                     commenced construction on or after the date on which the area is
                     first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are
                     located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone
                     nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30,
                     1989. New sources shall comply with the requirements of this
                     regulation by whichever date comes later:



                                                                                          3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.B.1.b.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in
                        what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                 I.B.1.b.(ii) (State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in
                        an 8-Hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the 1-hour
                        ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or

                 I.B.1.b.(iii) (State Only) Upon commencement of operation, if
                        located within an ozone nonattainment or attainment
                        maintenance area.

    I.B.2. Existing Sources

          I.B.2.a.     Existing sources are

                 I.B.2.a.(i)   (1) those sources for which a complete permit
                        application was submitted prior to October 30, 1989, or (2)
                        those sources, which commenced operation prior to October
                        30, 1989, if they are located in the 1-hour ozone
                        nonattainment or attainment maintenance area.

                 I.B.2.a.(ii)  Those sources that submitted a complete permit
                        application or that commenced operation prior to February 1,
                        2009, if they are located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area
                        and outside of the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                        maintenance area.

                 I.B.2.a.(iii) Those sources located in northern Weld County that
                        submitted a complete application or that commenced
                        operation prior to February 14, 2023.

          I.B.2.b.        (State Only) Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone
                 nonattainment or attainment maintenance area are those sources
                 which commenced construction prior to the date on which the area
                 is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are
                 located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone
                 nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30,
                 1989.

          I.B.2.c.        Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment
                  or attainment maintenance area shall not be required to comply
                  with requirements of this regulation until on and after October 30,
                  1991. All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set
                  forth in Exhibit A until October 30, 1991.


                                                                                        4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

             I.B.2.d.      Existing sources shall be required to comply with
                    requirements of this regulation by the following dates.

                    I.B.2.d.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in
                           what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone
                           nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                    I.B.2.d.(ii) (State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in
                           an 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the Denver 1-
                           hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

                    I.B.2.d.(iii) February 14, 2023, if located in northern Weld County
                           and subject to requirements in Part B, Sections III., IV.B.1.,
                           IV.B.2., or V.C.

                    I.B.2.d.(iv) December 31, 2024, if located in northern Weld
                           County and not subject to requirements in Part B, Sections
                           III., IV.B.1., IV.B.2., or V.C.; or

                    I.B.2.d.(v)    (State Only) Three years after the date on which the
                           area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone,
                           if located within that ozone nonattainment or attainment
                           maintenance area.

             I.B.2.e.      On and after October 30, 1991, all existing sources located
                    in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area
                    shall comply with the requirements of this regulation, and Exhibit A
                    shall no longer be applicable.

             I.B.2.f. Repealed.

             I.B.2.g.      Repealed.

I.C.   Once a source subject to this regulation exceeds an applicable threshold limit,
       the requirements of this regulation are irrevocably effective unless the source
       obtains a federally enforceable permit limiting emissions to levels below the
       threshold limit by restricting production capacity or hours of operation.

I.D.   The owner or operator of a source not required to obtain a permit by provisions of
       law other than this section may apply for and shall be required to accept a permit
       as a condition of avoiding RACT requirements. Such permits shall contain only
       those conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement of the production capacity
       or hours of operation.

II.    General Provisions



                                                                                         5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

II.A.   Definitions

        II.A.1. “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe,
                Boulder (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and
                Jefferson; the Cities and Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the
                following portions of the Counties of Larimer and Weld:

               II.A.1.a.       For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain
                       National Park), that portion of the county that lies south of a line
                       described as follows: Beginning at a point on Larimer County’s
                       eastern boundary and Weld County’s western boundary intersected
                       by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude,
                       proceed west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees,
                       42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29
                       minutes, and 40.0 seconds west longitude, thence proceed south
                       on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west longitude to the
                       intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north
                       latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4
                       seconds north latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s
                       western boundary and Grand County’s eastern boundary.

               II.A.1.b.       For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of
                       a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s
                       eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
                       intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude,
                       proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north
                       latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary
                       and Larimer County’s eastern boundary.

        II.A.2. “Denver 1-Hour Ozone Attainment/Maintenance Area” means the
                Counties of Jefferson and Douglas, the Cities and Counties of Denver and
                Broomfield, Boulder County (excluding Rocky Mountain National Park),
                Adams County west of Kiowa Creek, and Arapahoe County west of Kiowa
                Creek.

        II.A.3. “Capture System” means the equipment used to contain, capture, or
                transport a pollutant to a control device.




        II.A.4. “Capture System Efficiency (vapor gathering system efficiency)” means
                the percent by weight of VOC emitted by an operation subject to this



                                                                                            6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           regulation, which is captured by the capture system and sent to the control
           device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC captured)/(mass flow of VOC emitted by
           the operation) x 100%.

    II.A.5. “Carbon Adsorption System” means a device containing adsorbent
            material, an inlet and outlet for exhaust gases and a system to regenerate
            the saturated adsorbent.

    II.A.6. “Condenser” means any heat transfer device used to liquefy vapors by
            removing their latent heats of vaporization. Such devices include, but are
            not limited to, shell and tube, coil, surface, or contact condensers.

    II.A.7. “Control Device” means a carbon adsorber, refrigeration system,
            condenser, flare, firebox or other device, which will reduce the
            concentration of VOC in a gas stream by adsorption, combustion,
            condensation, or other means of removal.

    II.A.8. “Control Device Efficiency” means the percent removal by weight of VOC
            by a control device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC into control device - mass flow
            of VOC out of control device)/(mass flow of VOC into control device) x
            100%.

    II.A.9. "Gasoline" means a petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure
            between 208 and 1040 torr (4-20 psi), which is used as fuel for internal
            combustion engines.

    II.A.10.     "Highly Volatile Organic Compound" is defined as a Volatile
           Organic Compound or mixture of such compounds with a true vapor
           pressure in excess of 570 torr (11 psia) at 20 C.

    II.A.11.     “Organic Material” means a chemical compound of carbon,
           excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic
           carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate.
    II.A.12.      (State Only) “Ozone Nonattainment Area” means any area
           designated as not in attainment with the ozone National Ambient Air
           Quality Standard as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency.




    II.A.13.       “Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does
           not lie south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld



                                                                                         7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           County’s eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary
           intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude,
           proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until
           this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s
           eastern boundary.

    II.A.14.      “Petroleum Refinery” means any facility engaged in producing
           gasoline, aromatics, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils,
           lubricants, asphalt, or other products through distillation of petroleum or
           through redistillation, cracking, rearrangement or reforming of unfinished
           petroleum derivatives.

    II.A.15.       “Reid Vapor Pressure” means the absolute vapor pressure of
           volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquefied
           petroleum gases as determined by the American Society for Testing and
           Materials, Part 17, 1973, D-323-72 (Reapproved 1977).

    II.A.16.     “True Vapor Pressure” means the equilibrium partial pressure
           exerted by petroleum (or other) liquid. This may be determined by the
           methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517,
           “Evaporation Loss from Floating Roof Tanks,” 1962.

    II.A.17.      “Vapor Recovery System” means a system that prevents release to
           the atmosphere of organic compounds emitted during the operation of any
           transfer, storage, or processing equipment.




    II.A.18.     “Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)” means any compound of
           carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid,


                                                                                         8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which
              participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions, except those listed in
              Section II.B. as having negligible photochemical reactivity. VOC may be
              measured by a reference method, an equivalent method, an alternative
              method, or by procedures specified under 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2025).
              A reference method, an equivalent method, or an alternative method,
              however, may also measure nonreactive organic compounds. In such
              cases, an owner or operator may exclude the compounds listed in Section
              II.B. when determining compliance with a standard if the amount of such
              compounds is accurately quantified, and such exclusion is approved by
              the Division. As a precondition to excluding such compounds as VOC, or
              at any time thereafter, the Division may require an owner or operator to
              provide monitoring or testing methods and results demonstrating, to the
              satisfaction of the Division, the amount of negligible-reactive compounds
              in the source's emissions.

II.B.   Exemptions
Emissions of the organic compounds listed as having negligible photochemical reactivity
in the common provisions definition of Negligibly Reactive Volatile Organic Compound
are exempt from the provisions of this regulation.

II.C.   General Emission Limitation

        II.C.1. Existing Sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                maintenance area or the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area

              II.C.1.a.       All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set
                      forth in this regulation.

                     II.C.1.a.(i)   Existing sources of VOC which are not subject to
                             specific emission limitations set forth in this regulation, and
                             which have the potential to emit 100 tons per year or more of
                             VOC, shall utilize Reasonably Available Control Technology
                             (RACT).
                     II.C.1.a.(ii) The potential to emit of such sources shall be based
                             on design capacity or maximum production rate, whichever
                             is greater, 8,760 hours’/year operation, and before add-on
                             controls.

                     II.C.1.a.(iii) Owners or operators of such sources with potential
                             emissions of 100 tons per year or more, but with actual
                             emissions less than 100 tons per year may obtain a federally



                                                                                            9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                      enforceable permit limiting emissions to actual rates by
                      restricting production capacity or hours of operation, thus
                      avoiding RACT requirements.

                      The owner or operator of a source not required to obtain a
                      permit by provisions of law other than this section may apply
                      for and shall be required to accept a permit as a condition of
                      avoiding RACT requirements. Such permits shall contain
                      only those conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement
                      of the production capacity or hours of operation.

               II.C.1.a.(iv) Such sources with potential emissions of 100 tons per
                       year or more but with actual emissions of less than 50 tons
                       per year, on a rolling 12-month total, may avoid RACT and
                       permit requirements if the following requirements are met:

                      II.C.1.a.(iv)(A)      The owner or operator shall submit
                              revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices (APENs) by
                              April 1 of each year, which demonstrate that the 50
                              tons per year threshold has not been exceeded.

                      II.C.1.a.(iv)(B)       The owner or operator shall maintain
                              records on site which include monthly VOC use and
                              monthly VOC emissions. The records shall include
                              calculation of total emissions for each rolling 12-
                              month period. The records shall be made available to
                              the Division for inspection upon request.

               II.C.1.a.(v) (State Only) Existing sources that are modified –
                       undergo any physical change, or changed in the method of
                       operation of a stationary source which increase VOC or NOx
                       emissions – on or after March 30, 2008, shall utilize RACT
                       control technologies pursuant to Regulation Number 7,
                       Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and Regulation
                       Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. upon recommencing
                       operation.




         II.C.1.b.     Provided however, that no existing source of VOC emissions
                 employing emission controls on or within the six-month period
                 preceding the effective date of this regulation may reduce its level



                                                                                    10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

               of control of VOC emissions below that level of control actually
               achieved, even though such source may otherwise be subject to
               less stringent control requirements, except that no existing source
               shall be required to control emissions to an extent greater than that
               level of control which RACT would achieve.

         II.C.1.c.      (State Only) Existing sources with potential emissions equal
                 to or greater than 100 tons per year of volatile organic compound
                 emissions shall submit a permit modification application that
                 includes a revised APEN (or APENs) and a RACT analysis, to the
                 Division, as follows:

               II.C.1.c.(i)  (State Only) By October 30, 1991 if located in what
                       was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone
                       nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or

               II.C.1.c.(ii) (State Only) By April 30, 2009 or within one year after
                       the date on which the area is first designated as being in
                       nonattainment for ozone, whichever comes later, if they are
                       located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the
                       Denver 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment
                       maintenance area.
         II.C.1.d.     (State Only) Existing sources shall utilize RACT pursuant to
                 Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and
                 Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. by whichever date
                 comes later:

               II.C.1.d.(i)  (State Only) October 30, 1991, if they are located in
                       what was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone
                       nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;

               II.C.1.d.(ii) (State Only) November 21, 2011, if they are located in
                       the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and outside of the Denver 1-
                       hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area;
               II.C.1.d.(iii) (State Only) Three years after the date on which the
                       area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone;
                       or

               II.C.1.d.(iv) (State Only) Two years after Division determination of
                       case-by-case RACT pursuant to this Section II.C.1. The
                       Division shall be deemed to have approved the RACT
                       analysis for purposes of this Section II.C.1.d.(iv) if it does not



                                                                                      11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                              object after eighteen months from having received a
                              complete permit application.

        II.C.2. New Sources

        All new sources shall utilize controls representing RACT, pursuant to applicable
        provisions in Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and
        Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D., upon commencement of operation.

II.D.   Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods

        II.D.1. Sources subject to specific requirements of this regulation shall submit for
                approval as a revision to the State Implementation Plan:

               II.D.1.a.              Any alternative emission control plan or compliance
                       method other than control options specifically allowed in the
                       applicable regulation. Such alternative control plans shall provide
                       control equal to or greater than the emission control or reduction
                       required by the regulation, unless the source contends that the
                       control level required by the regulation does not represent RACT
                       for their specific source.

               II.D.1.b.     Any alternative test method or procedure not specifically
                       allowed in the applicable regulation.

        II.D.2. No alternative submitted pursuant to this Section II.D. is effective until the
                alternative is approved as a revision to the State Implementation Plan.

II.E.   REPEALED

II.F.   Provisions for Specific Processes

        II.F.1. The Gates Rubber Company Provision – REPEALED

Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas

I.      Chronology of Attainment Status

Denver Metropolitan Area Only
1978 Denver 1-hour Ozone Nonattainment Area designation first becomes effective in
     7-county Denver Metropolitan Area

10/11/01     Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area designation replaces
      non-attainment designation and becomes effective in 7-county Denver
      Metropolitan Area




                                                                                             12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

9/2/05         1-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is Revoked in
         Colorado except for the Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area.




                                                                                    13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range

10/11/01      1-hour attainment maintenance area replaces non-attainment designation
      for the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range Area

4/15/04            EPA designates the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range region
      as an 8-hour ozone non-attainment area, designation deferred due to the
      implementation of the Early Action Compact

11/20/07   Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (1997 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

7/20/2012  Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (2008 NAAQS)
      becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area

8/3/2018      Denver 8-hour ozone nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) becomes
      effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area
12/31/2021 EPA modification of the 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 8-hour ozone
      nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) to include the portion of northern Weld
      County defined in Part A




                                                                                  14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

II.   Maps

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range (2008 Ozone NAAQS)




                                                                       15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                  5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range and northern Weld County
(2015 ozone NAAQS)




                                                                          16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

PART B    Surface Coating, Solvents, Asphalt, Graphic Arts and Printing, and
     Pharmaceuticals

I.     Surface Coating Operations

I.A.   General Provisions

       I.A.1. Definitions, unless otherwise specified in Sections I.B. through I.Q.

              I.A.1.a.      "Coating" means a protective, functional or decorative film
                     applied in a thin layer to a surface. This term often applies to paints
                     such as lacquers or enamels, but is also used to refer to films
                     applied to paper, plastics, or foils.

              I.A.1.b.     "Coating Applicator" means an apparatus used to apply a
                     surface coating.

              I.A.1.c.       "Coating Line" means an operation which includes both (1) a
                      coating applicator and (2) device(s) and/or area(s) to accomplish
                      one or more of the following processes: flash-off, drying, curing,
                      heat-setting and/or polymerization.

              I.A.1.d.     "Coating Solids" means that portion of a surface coating,
                     which remains after volatile components have escaped.

              I.A.1.e.      "Final Repair Application" means that application of surface
                     coating specifically intended to repair damage and imperfections in
                     existing surface coats.

              I.A.1.f. "Finished Coating Solids" means those coating-solids that remain
                       on a coated substance after completion of all production processes.

              I.A.1.g.     "Flash-off Area" means the space between the application
                     area and the oven.

              I.A.1.h.      "Prime Coat" (also termed "primer") means the first film of
                     coating applied in a multiple-coat operation.

              I.A.1.i. "Single Coat" means a single film of coating applied directly to the
                       metal substrate, omitting the primer application.




                                                                                          17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.A.1.j. "Surface Coating" means a liquid, liquefiable, or mastic composition
                   which is converted to a solid (or semi-solid) protective, decorative,
                   or adherent film or deposit after application as a thin layer or by
                   impregnation. In a machine which has both coating and printing
                   units, all units shall be considered as performing a printing
                   operation. Such a machine is subject to the standards governing
                   graphic arts, and thus is not covered by coating standards.

          I.A.1.k.       "Surface Coating Oven" means a chamber within which heat
                  is used to bake, cure, polymerize, and/or dry a surface coating.

          I.A.1.l. "Topcoat" means the final film of coating applied in a multiple-coat
                   operation.

    I.A.2. Abbreviations

          I.A.2.a.       Kg/lc shall be the abbreviation for: kilograms of solvent VOC
                 per liter of coating (minus water and "exempt" solvents, as defined
                 in Part A, Section II.B.).

          I.A.2.b.     Lb/gc shall be the abbreviation for: (avoirdupois) pounds of
                 solvent VOC per gallon of coating (minus water and "exempt"
                 solvents, as defined in Part A, Section II.B.).

    I.A.3. Test Methods and Procedures
          I.A.3.a.      The owner or operator of any VOC source required to
                 comply with this section shall, at their own expense, demonstrate
                 compliance using EPA reference method 24 of 40 CFR Part 60
                 (September 14, 1989) for surface coatings, and reference method
                 25 and reference methods 1 through 4 (March 29, 2023) for add-on
                 controls.

          I.A.3.b.      The test protocol should be in accordance with the
                 requirements of the Air Pollution Control Division Compliance Test
                 Manual and shall be submitted to the Division for review and
                 approval at least thirty (30) days prior to testing. No test shall be
                 conducted without prior approval from the Division.

          I.A.3.c.       The Division may use independent tests to verify test data
                  submitted by the source operator or owner. The test methods shall
                  be those listed in Section I.A.3.a. and the Division test results shall
                  take precedence.




                                                                                       18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.A.3.d.      The Division may accept, instead of the testing required in
                  this section, a certification by the manufacturer of the composition
                  of the coatings if supported by actual batch formulation records.
                  The owner or operator of the VOC source required to comply with
                  this section shall obtain certification from the coating
                  manufacturer(s) that the test method(s) used for determination of
                  VOC content meet the requirements specified in Section I.A.3.a.
                  The owner or operator shall have this certification readily available
                  to Division personnel, in order to allow the results to be used in the
                  daily compliance calculations specified in Section I.A.10.

           I.A.3.e.      The performance of add-on control device equipment shall
                  be established with the required test methods of I.A.3.a. at
                  equipment startup, and after major modification to the control
                  equipment. Baseline operating parameters shall be established
                  during the satisfactory (i.e. in-compliance) operation of the control
                  equipment, including operation during all anticipated ranges of
                  process throughput. During subsequent process operation, the
                  owner or operator shall maintain the operating conditions of the
                  add-on controls as close to these baseline conditions as possible. If
                  serious operational problems with an add-on control system are
                  evidenced from the daily monitoring required by Section I.A.8.b.
                  (such problems may be indicated by changes from baseline
                  conditions), repeat performance tests may be required by the
                  Division, as necessary.

    I.A.4. Sampling

    To determine compliance with applicable surface coating standards, samples
    shall be taken from the coating as freshly delivered to the reservoir of the coating
    applicator.

    I.A.5. Alternative compliance methods for processes and operations

    For each process specified in Sections I.B. through I.N. the emission limits
    designated for that process shall be achieved by:

           I.A.5.a.      Use of coatings with proportions of VOC less than or equal
                  to the maximums specified by the applicable section of this
                  regulation; or
           I.A.5.b.      Use of the specified equipment and procedures prescribed
                  by the applicable section of this regulation; or



                                                                                      19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.A.5.c.       Use of an alternative means of control which satisfies the
                 requirements of Section I.A.5.e., I.A.5.f., and Part A, Section II.D.;
                 or

         I.A.5.d.      Use of crossline averaging. The following requirements
                apply:

                I.A.5.d.(i)   The actual reduction shall be equivalent to the actual
                       reduction that would be achieved on a line-by-line basis.
                I.A.5.d.(ii)   Credit shall not be received for downtime, however,
                       credit is allowed for enforceable production limits.
                I.A.5.d.(iii) Crossline averaging shall be used only across lines in
                       the same control technique guidance group.

                zxsdaI.A.5.d.(iv) The crossline averaging shall be met on a daily
                      weighted average.

                I.A.5.d.(v)   Sources subject to best available control technology
                       (BACT) and lowest achievable emission rate (LAER)
                       requirements shall not use cross line averaging.

                I.A.5.d.(vi) VOC emissions shall be expressed as lbs/gallons
                       solids to determine reduction over baseline (lb VOC/lb solids
                       for graphic arts).

                I.A.5.d.(vii) Organisol and plastisol coatings shall not be used to
                       bubble emissions from vinyl surface or automobile
                       topcoating operations.

                I.A.5.d.(viii) Before crossline averaging may be used, the control
                       methodology shall be approved as a revision to the State
                       Implementation Plan.




                                                                                      20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.A.5.e.       The design, operation and efficiency of any capture system
                 used in conjunction with any emission control system shall be
                 certified in writing by the source owner or operator and approved by
                 the Division. Unless the capture system meets the requirements for
                 a total enclosure as specified in the New Source Performance
                 Standard for the Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Industry,
                 53FR38892, October 3, 1988, or unless Division approved material
                 balance techniques are used to adequately determine overall VOC
                 capture and destruction/recovery efficiency, the efficiency of the
                 capture system shall be determined by test methods approved as a
                 revision to the State Implementation Plan. Testing for capture
                 efficiency shall be performed on a case-by-case basis as required
                 by the Division. The requirements of Sections I.A.3.e. and I.A.8.b.
                 shall apply to the capture and control device system. When capture
                 and control device efficiency must be independently determined,
                 the overall VOC emission reduction rate equals the (percent
                 capture efficiency X percent control device efficiency)/100.

          I.A.5.f. Sources which use add-on controls, crossline averaging, or an
                   approved alternative control strategy instead of low solvent
                   technology to meet the applicable emission limit shall meet the
                   equivalent VOC emission limit, on the basis of solids applied (lb
                   VOC/gal solids applied, or lb VOC/lb solids applied, for graphic arts
                   sources). Appendix E sets forth the procedure for converting
                   emission limits and lists equivalent limits for various coating
                   operations.

          I.A.5.g.     Owners or operators of sources which use a carbon
                 adsorption system shall provide for the proper disposal or reuse of
                 all VOC recovered.

    I.A.6. Exemptions
          I.A.6.a.      The requirements of this Section I. do not apply to sources
                 used exclusively for chemical or physical analysis or determination
                 of product quality and commercial acceptance, provided;

                 I.A.6.a.(i)   the operation of the source is not an integral part of
                        the production process; and

                 I.A.6.a.(ii)  the emissions from the source do not exceed 363
                        kilograms (800 lbs.) in any calendar month; and

                 I.A.6.a.(iii)   the exemption is approved in writing by the Division.


                                                                                        21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.A.6.b.       The requirements of Sections I.C., D., E., F., G., H., I., L.
                 and M. are not applicable to sources whose actual emissions,
                 including fugitive emissions, before add-on controls, are less than
                 6.8 kilograms (15 lbs.) per day and less than 1.4 kilograms (3 lbs.)
                 per hour. Emissions from all sources within the same control
                 technique guidance group shall be totaled to determine actual
                 emissions.

    I.A.7. Fugitive emission control

          I.A.7.a.        Control techniques and work practices shall be implemented
                 at all times to reduce VOC emissions from fugitive sources. Control
                 techniques and work practices include, but are not limited to:

                 I.A.7.a.(i)     tight-fitting covers for open tanks;

                 I.A.7.a.(ii)    covered containers for solvent wiping cloths;

                 I.A.7.a.(iii)   proper disposal of dirty cleanup solvent.

          I.A.7.b.      Emissions of organic material released during clean-up
                 operations, disposal, and other fugitive emissions shall be included
                 when determining total emissions, unless the source owner or
                 operator documents that the VOCs are collected and disposed of in
                 a manner that prevents evaporation to the atmosphere.
    I.A.8. Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Monitoring

          I.A.8.a.        If add-on control equipment is used, continuous monitors of
                 the following parameters shall be installed, calibrated, and operated
                 at all times that the associated control equipment is operating:

                 I.A.8.a.(i)     exhaust gas temperature of all incinerators;
                 I.A.8.a.(ii)    temperature rise across a catalytic incineration bed;

                 I.A.8.a.(iii)   breakthrough of VOC on a carbon adsorption unit;

                 I.A.8.a.(iv) any other monitoring and/or recording device,
                        maintenance and/or control-media-replacement schedule(s)
                        specified on a case-by-case basis by the Division.




                                                                                         22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.A.8.b.      If add-on control equipment is used, in addition to the
                 requirements of Section I.A.8.a., the following information and any
                 other necessary information, as determined applicable for each
                 source by the Division, shall be monitored and recorded daily in
                 order to assure continuous compliance. The substitution of
                 continuous recordings for daily recording may be allowed by the
                 Division.

                 I.A.8.b.(i)   For the capture system: fan power use, duct flow,
                        duct pressure.

                 I.A.8.b.(ii)  For carbon adsorbers: bed temperature, bed vacuum
                        pressure, pressure at the vacuum pump, accumulated time
                        of operation, concentration of VOC in the outlet gas, solvent
                        recovery.

                 I.A.8.b.(iii) For refrigeration systems: compressor discharge and
                        suction pressures, condenser fluid temperature, solvent
                        recovery.

                 I.A.8.b.(iv) For incinerator systems: exhaust gas temperature,
                        temperature rise across a catalytic incinerator bed, flame
                        temperature, accumulated time of incinerator.

          I.A.8.c.      Recordkeeping procedures shall follow the guidance in
                  "Recordkeeping Guidance Document for Surface Coating
                  Operations and the Graphic Arts Industry," July 1989, EPA 340/1-
                  88-003.

    I.A.9. Required and Prohibited Acts
          I.A.9.a.      No owner or operator of a source of VOCs subject to this
                 section shall operate, cause, allow or permit the operation of the
                 source, unless:

                 I.A.9.a.(i)   For each category of surface coating as specified in
                        Sections I.B. through I.M., the owner or operator of a surface
                        coating line or facility subject to that section does not cause,
                        allow or permit the discharge into the atmosphere of any
                        VOCs in excess of the specified emission limit, calculated as
                        delivered to the coating applicator or as applied to the
                        substrate, whichever is greater.




                                                                                      23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                  I.A.9.a.(ii)   The owner or operator of a surface coating operation
                         maintains and operates surface coating operations in a
                         manner consistent with good air pollution control practices
                         for minimizing emissions, such as, but not limited to, coating
                         application methods capable of achieving a transfer
                         efficiency achieved by HVLP spraying.

    I.A.10. Compliance Calculation Procedures

           I.A.10.a.     Compliance with this section shall be determined on a daily
                  basis. Sources may request a revision to the State Implementation
                  Plan for longer times for compliance determination.

           I.A.10.b.     Compliance calculation procedures shall follow the guidance
                  in "Procedure for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic
                  Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink, and Other Coatings," December
                  1984, EPA-450/3-84/019. In addition, for add-on controls or other
                  compliance alternatives, calculation procedures shall follow the
                  guidance of Section I.A.5.f.

    I.A.11. The requirements of Sections I.A.1. through I.A.10. apply to each category
            of surface coating as specified in Sections I.B. through I.M. The
            requirements of Sections I.A.7. through I.A.10. apply to the category in
            Section I.N. The requirements of Sections I.A.1. through I.A.9 apply to the
            category in Section I.O. The requirements of Sections I.A.1. through I.A.4.,
            I.A.7, and I.A.8. apply to the categories in Sections I.P and I.Q.

    I.A.12. The Division shall approve utilization of alternative compliance methods to
            the following sources pursuant to this Section I.

           I.A.12.a.       Lexmark International, Inc. shall be allowed to utilize the
                  alternative compliance method of crossline averaging for processes
                  and operations within the Manufactured Metal Parts and Metal
                  products (Subgroup L) and within the Plastic Film Coating
                  Operations (Subgroup J). The emission trading requirements of
                  Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section V. shall be met, and
                  utilization of the alternative compliance method shall be subject to
                  the following generic conditions, which shall be written and
                  specifically described as enforceable permit terms and conditions in
                  its permits:




                                                                                     24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.A.12.a.(i) The alternative compliance method shall result in an
                     actual reduction that is equivalent to the actual reduction that
                     would otherwise be achieved on a line-by-line basis pursuant
                     to this Regulation Number 25.
              I.A.12.a.(ii) Credit shall not be received for downtime; however,
                     credit is allowed for emission reductions from enforceable
                     production limits.

              I.A.12.a.(iii) Cross line averaging shall be used only across lines
                     of the same control technique guidance group. Lexmark
                     shall use cross line averaging between Metal Parts and
                     Metal Products lines or between Plastic Film Coating lines.
                     Lexmark shall not use cross line averaging where the
                     emissions from Plastic film coating lines are averaged with
                     Metal Parts and Metal Products lines.

              I.A.12.a.(iv) The cross line averaging shall be met on a daily
                     weighted average.

              I.A.12.a.(v) Sources subject to Best Available Control Technology
                     (BACT), and Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) shall
                     not use cross line averaging.

              I.A.12.a.(vi) To determine reduction over baseline, VOC emissions
                     shall be expressed according to Section I.A.5.f., as
                     lbs/gallons solids.

              I.A.12.a.(vii) Monthly records shall be kept at the source to verify
                     ongoing compliance with these conditions. The
                     recordkeeping format shall be approved by the Division.

              I.A.12.a.(viii) An annual report demonstrating ongoing compliance
                     with this regulation and all permit terms shall be filed with the
                     Division. The report format shall be approved by the Division
                     and specifically described in the permit.

              I.A.12.a.(ix) The Division shall issue a permit with federally
                     enforceable terms and conditions to Lexmark limiting
                     Lexmark's alternative compliance method emissions to those
                     allowable under Section I.L. and Section I.J.




                                                                                     25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                     I.A.12.a.(x) Commercial and Product quality control laboratory
                            equipment are exempt from APEN filing and construction
                            permit requirements under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                            Section II.D.1.i., and Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section
                            II.D.1.a.; and from construction permit requirements under
                            Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section II.D.1.i. Qualifying
                            sources shall be exempt from Regulation Number 25,
                            Section I. A.6.

                     I.A.12.a.(xi) Nothing in the alternative compliance method is
                            intended to relax any emissions limitation of this Regulation
                            Number 25.

I.B.   Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Plants
       I.B.1. Definitions

              I.B.1.a.      "Application Area” means the area where the surface coating
                     is applied by spraying, dipping or flow coating.

              I.B.1.b.      "Automobile” means a passenger motor-vehicle or a
                     derivative of same, capable of seating twelve (12) or fewer
                     passengers, and having at least two driven wheels.

              I.B.1.c.        "Automobile Assembly Facility” means a facility where parts
                      (including assembled or partially assembled components) of
                      automobiles are received, and finished automobiles are produced,
                      partially or wholly by an assembly line.

              I.B.1.d.      "Light-Duty Truck” means any motor vehicle rated at 8,500
                     pounds (3,855 kilograms) gross vehicle weight or less, and having
                     at least two driven wheels, which is designed primarily for purposes
                     of transportation of property or is a derivative of such vehicles. It
                     includes, but is not limited to, pickup trucks, vans, and window vans
                     rated at 8,500 pounds’ gross vehicular weight or less.

              I.B.1.e.       "Light-Duty Truck Assembly Facility” means a facility where
                     parts (including assembled or partially assembled components) of
                     light-duty trucks are received, and finished light-duty trucks are
                     produced, partially or wholly by an assembly line.




                                                                                        26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.B.2. Applicability

       This section applies to all assembly and subassembly lines in an automobile or
       light-duty truck assembly facility, including those for frames, small parts, wheels,
       and main body parts. This section applies only to the manufacture of new
       vehicles.

       I.B.3. Emission Limitations

                                                        Kg/lc        Lb/gc

         Prime application, flashoff area, and oven     0.23         1.9

         Topcoat application area, flashoff area,
                                                        0.34         2.8
         and oven

         Final repair application, flashoff area and
                                                        0.58         4.8
         oven

       I.B.4. Coatings other than primer, surfacer (guidecoat), topcoat and final repair
              shall be considered under the miscellaneous metal parts Section I.L.

       I.B.5. For topcoat application, if a complying coating is not used to meet the
              emission limit of Section I.B.3, then:

              I.B.5.a.    the alternate method shall meet an emission limit of 15.1 lb
                     VOC/gal. solids deposited on the coated part; and

              I.B.5.b.      compliance shall be determined on a daily weighted average
                     basis.

       I.B.6. Topcoat operation shall include all spray booths, flash-off areas and ovens
              in which topcoat is applied, dried and cured, except for final offline repair.
I.C.   Can Coating Operations

       I.C.1. Definitions

              I.C.1.a.       "Can Coatings” means any coatings containing organic
                     materials and applied -- or intended for application -- by spray,
                     roller, or other means onto the inside and/or outside surfaces of
                     formed cans and components of cans.

              I.C.1.b.      "End Sealing Compound” means a substance which is
                     coated onto can ends and which functions as a seal when the end
                     is assembled onto the can.




                                                                                         27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.C.1.c.      "Exterior Base Coat” means a coating applied to the exterior
                  of a can to provide protection to the metal and/or to provide
                  background for any lithographic or printing operation.

           I.C.1.d.       "Interior Base Coat” means the initial coating applied to the
                  interior surface of a can by roller coater or spray.

           I.C.1.e.       "Interior Body Spray” means a coating sprayed onto the
                  interior surface of the can body to provide a protective film between
                  the can and its contents.

           I.C.1.f. "Overvarnish” means a coating applied directly over ink to reduce
                    the coefficient of friction, provide gloss, protect against abrasion,
                    enhance product quality, and protect against corrosion.

           I.C.1.g.      "Three-Piece Can Side Seam Spray” means a coating
                  sprayed onto the interior and/or exterior of a can body seam on a
                  three-piece can to protect the exposed metal.

           I.C.1.h.      "Two-Piece Can Exterior End Coat” means a coating applied
                  to the exterior of the bottom end of a two-piece can.

    I.C.2. Applicability

    This section applies to coating applicator(s), and oven(s) of sheet can or end
    coating lines involved in sheet basecoat (exterior and interior) and over varnish,
    two-and three-piece can interior body spray, two-piece can exterior end (spray or
    roll coat), three-piece can side-seam spray, and end sealing compound
    operations.




                                                                                            28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.C.3. Emission Limitations



        Can Coating                                      Kg/lc         Lb/gc

        Sheet base coat (exterior and interior) and      0.34          2.8
        overvarnish two-piece can exterior (base
        coat and overvarnish)

        Two and three-piece can interior body       0.51               4.2
        spray, two-piece can exterior end (spray or
        roll coat)

        Three-piece can side-seam spray                  0.66          5.5

        End sealing compound                             0.44          3.7

        Any additional coats                             0.51          4.2

I.D.   Coil Coating Operations

       I.D.1. Definitions

              I.D.1.a.       “Coil Coating” means any surface coating applied by spray,
                     roller, or other means onto one or both surfaces of flat metal sheets
                     or strips that come in rolls or coils.

              I.D.1.b.      “Quench Area” means a chamber where the hot metal
                     exiting the oven is cooled by either a spray of water or a blast of air
                     followed by water cooling.

       I.D.2. Applicability

       This section applies to the coating applicator(s), oven(s), and quench area(s) of
       coil coating operations involved in primer, intermediate, top-coat or single-coat
       operations.

       I.D.3. Emission Limitations:

        Coil Coating                              Kg/lc          Lb/gc

        Any coat (primer, intermediate coat,      0.31           2.6
        topcoat, single coat)



I.E.   Fabric Coating Operations




                                                                                          29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.E.1. Definitions

              I.E.1.a.       “Fabric Coating" means the process of coating or
                     impregnating the full, usable surface of a fabric web or sheet to
                     impart properties that are not initially present such as strength,
                     stability, water or acid repellency, or appearance. "Fabric Coating"
                     excludes those processes normally included under fabric finishing
                     (e.g. dyeing, treating for stain and wrinkle resistance, etc.).

       I.E.2. Applicability

       This section applies to fabric coating lines which includes, but is not limited to,
       coaters and drying ovens.

       I.E.3. Emission Limitations

                                                  Kg/lc             Lb/gc

        Fabric Coating Line                       0.35              2.9

I.F.   Large Appliance Coating Operations

       I.F.1. Definition
              I.F.1.a.        "Large Appliances” includes doors, cases, lids, panels,
                      interior support parts, and any other large (greater than one square
                      decimeter (15.5 square inches)) coated surfaces of residential and
                      commercial washers, dryers, ovens, ranges, refrigerators, freezers,
                      water heaters, dishwashers, trash compactors, air conditioners, and
                      all other products under SIC Code 363 according to the "Standard
                      Industrial Classification Manual", Executive Office of the President,
                      Office of Management and Budget, designated by convention of the
                      industry as large appliances.
       I.F.2. Applicability

       This section applies to all large appliance coating lines.

       I.F.3. Emission Limitations

                                                  Kg/lc             Lb/gc

        Large Appliance Coating Line; prime,      0.34              2.8
        single or topcoat application area,
        flashoff area, and oven




                                                                                             30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

I.G.   Magnet Wire Coating Operations

       I.G.1. Definition

              I.G.1.a.      "Magnet Wire Coating" means those operations which apply
                     a coating of electrically insulating varnish or enamel (or similar
                     substance) to wire which is known as "magnet wire.” Magnet wire is
                     usually copper or aluminum, and is used for electric motors,
                     generators, transformers, magnets, and related products.
       I.G.2. Applicability

       This section applies to, but is not limited to, coaters and drying ovens of magnet
       wire coating operations.

       I.G.3. Emission Limitations

                                                  Kg/lc             Lb/gc

        Magnetic wire coating operation           0.20              1.7

I.H.   Metal Furniture Coating Operations

       I.H.1. Definitions

              I.H.1.a.       "Metal Furniture" means furnishings commonly considered
                     furniture, for domestic, business, and/or institutional use, which
                     have one or more essential, major components made of metal.
                     "Metal furniture" includes, but is not limited to, tables, chairs,
                     wastebaskets, beds, desks, lockers, shelving, cabinets, room
                     dividers, clothing racks, chests of drawers, and sofas.

              I.H.1.b.      "Metal Furniture Coating" means applying a "surface
                     coating" to "metal furniture" as defined. It excludes coating of non-
                     metal components.

       I.H.2. Applicability

       This section applies to all metal furniture coating lines.

       I.H.3. Emission Limitations

                                                    Kg/lc            Lb/gc

        Metal Furniture Coating Line: All coats     0.36             3.0
        (including prime, single, and topcoat)

I.I.   Paper Coating Operations



                                                                                          31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.I.1.   Definition

       "Paper Coating" means impregnating or applying a uniform layer of "surface
       coating" to paper. It includes, but is not limited to, the production of: coated,
       glazed, decorated, and varnished paper; carbon and pressure-sensitive copy
       papers; paper adhesive-labels and tapes; blue-print; photographic and copier
       paper. It also includes coating of metal foil such as gift wrap and packaging.
       Paper coating does not include impregnation using a batch dipping process.

       I.I.2.   Applicability

       This section applies to paper coating lines, which includes, but is not limited to,
       coaters and drying ovens.

       I.I.3.   Emission Limitations

                                                      Kg/lc           Lb/gc

        Paper Coating Line                            0.35            2.9



I.J.   Plastic-Film Coating Operations
       I.J.1. Definition

                I.J.1.a.       "Plastic-Film Coating" means applying a uniform layer of
                        "surface coating" to a flexible web or sheet of thin plastic
                        substance, excluding all rubbers and vinyl’s* (polyvinyl chloride)
                        except for the following two categories of vinyl products: (1) vinyl
                        tapes and (2) vinyl’s coated with an adhesive or pressure-sensitive
                        coating. It includes, but is not limited to: plastic typewriter ribbons,
                        photographic film, adhesive tapes, and magnetic recording tapes.
                        (*see Section I.K.)

       I.J.2. Applicability
       This section applies to, but is not limited to, coaters and drying ovens of plastic-
       film coating lines.
       I.J.3. Emission Limitations

                                                      Kg/lc           Lb/gc

        Plastic-Film Coating Line                     0.35            2.9




                                                                                              32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

I.K.   Vinyl Coating Operations

       I.K.1. Definition

       "Vinyl Coating” means applying a uniform layer, decorative or protective topcoat
       to a vinyl (polyvinyl chloride) coated fabric or vinyl sheet. It includes printing of
       same. Excluded are*: (1) the coating of same with adhesive or pressure-sensitive
       coatings and (2) vinyl tapes. (*see Section I.J.)

       I.K.2. Application

       This section applies to vinyl coating lines which includes, but is not limited to,
       coaters and drying ovens.

       I.K.3. Emission Limitations

                                                    Kg/lc          Lb/gc

        Vinyl Coating Line                          0.45           3.8



I.L.   Manufactured Metal Parts and Metal Products

       I.L.1. General Provisions

              I.L.1.a.       Applicability

              Before January 1, 2022, this section applies to the application area(s),
              flashoff area(s), oven(s), and drying areas including (but not limited to) air
              and forced air drier(s) used in the surface coating of the metal parts and
              products listed below where actual emissions, including fugitive emissions,
              before add-on controls, are greater than or equal to 6.8 kilograms (15 lbs.)
              per day and 1.4 kilograms (3 lbs.) per hour. This section applies to prime
              coat, top coat, and single coat operations.

              On or after January 1, 2022, this section applies to each metal parts and
              product surface coating unit at a facility where the total actual VOC
              emissions from all metal parts and product surface coating operations,
              including related cleaning activities, at that facility are equal to or greater
              than 2.7 tons per 12-month rolling period, before consideration of controls.

              This section is applicable to surface coating of manufactured metal parts
              and metal products which include:
                     I.L.1.a.(i)    Large farm machinery (harvesting, fertilizing, and
                             planting machines, tractors, combines, etc.);



                                                                                            33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                I.L.1.a.(ii)  Small-farm, lawn and garden machinery (lawn and
                        garden tractors, lawn mowers, rototillers, etc.);

                I.L.1.a.(iii) Small appliances (fans, mixers, blenders, crock pots,
                        dehumidifiers, vacuum cleaners, etc.);

                I.L.1.a.(iv)  Commercial machinery (office equipment, computers
                        and auxiliary equipment, typewriters, calculators, vending
                        machines, etc.);
                I.L.1.a.(v)  Industrial machinery (pumps, compressors, conveyor
                        components, fans, blowers, transformers, etc.);
                I.L.1.a.(vi)  Fabricated metal products (metal covered doors,
                        frames, etc.);

                I.L.1.a.(vii) Furniture hardware made of metal for use with non-
                        metal furniture; and

                I.L.1.a.(viii) Any other industrial category which coats metal parts
                        or products under the standard industrial classification code
                        of major group 33 (primary metal industries), major group 34
                        (fabricated metal products), major group 35 (non-electric
                        machinery), major group 36 (electrical machinery), major
                        group 37 (transportation equipment), major group 38
                        (miscellaneous instruments), and major group 39
                        (miscellaneous manufacturing industries), according to the
                        "Standard Industrial Classification Manual" Executive Office
                        of the President, Office of Management and Budget.

         I.L.1.b.      Exemptions

                I.L.1.b.(i)   Section I.L. does not apply to the surface coating of
                        metal parts and products inasmuch as these are covered in
                        Sections I.B., I.C., I.D., I.F., I.G., and I.H.

                I.L.1.b.(ii)  Section I.L. is not applicable to the following special
                        purpose coatings:
                       I.L.1.b.(ii)(A) Division-approved exemptions for high
                               performance coatings on a case-by-case basis.
                       I.L.1.b.(ii)(B) Full exterior repainting of automobiles and
                               light-duty trucks if fewer than 18 vehicles are painted
                               per day.



                                                                                        34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.L.1.b.(iii)  Beginning January 1, 2022, Section I.L. does not
                      apply to aerosol coatings, architectural coatings, and
                      automobile refinish coatings regulated by 40 CFR Part 59
                      Subparts B (National Volatile Organic Compound Emission
                      Standards for Automobile Refinish Coatings (August 23,
                      2019)), Subpart D (National Volatile Organic Compound
                      Emission Standards for Architectural Coatings (August 23,
                      2019)), or Subpart E (National Volatile Organic Compound
                      Emission Standards for Aerosol Coatings (August 23,
                      2019)).

              I.L.1.b.(iv)   Beginning January 1, 2022, Section I.L. does not
                      apply to architectural and industrial maintenance coatings
                      regulated by Regulation Number 21.

              I.L.1.b.(v)    Beginning January 1, 2022, Section I.L. does not
                      apply to the coating of aerospace vehicles or components
                      including, but not limited to, any fabricated part, processed
                      part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any aircraft
                      including, but not limited to, airplanes, helicopters, missiles,
                      rockets, and space vehicles at aerospace manufacturing and
                      rework operations.

              I.L.1.b.(vi)   Beginning January 1, 2022, Sections I.L.2 and I.L.3.
                      do not apply to:

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(A) Aerosol coating products.

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(B) Powder coatings.

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(C) Stencil coatings.

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(D) Safety-indicating coatings.
                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(E) Solid-film lubricants.

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(F) Electric-insulating and thermal-conducting
                             coatings.
                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(G) Magnetic data storage disk coatings.

                     I.L.1.b.(vi)(H) Plastic extruded onto metal parts to form a
                             coating.




                                                                                   35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                I.L.1.b.(vii) Beginning January 1, 2022, Section I.L.3. does not
                        apply to touch-up coatings, repair coatings, and textured
                        finishes.

         I.L.1.c.      Definitions

         For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

                I.L.1.c.(i)   "Air Dried Coating” means coatings which are dried by
                        the use of air or forced warm air at temperatures up to 90°C
                        (194°F);

                I.L.1.c.(ii)  “Baked Coating” means a coating that is cured at a
                        temperature at or above 90°C (194°F).

                I.L.1.c.(iii)  “Camouflage Coating” means a coating used,
                        principally by the military, to conceal equipment from
                        detection.

                I.L.1.c.(iv)   "Clear Coat” means a coating, which lacks color and
                        opacity or a coating which is transparent.

                I.L.1.c.(v)    "Coating Application System” means all operations
                        and equipment which apply, convey, and dry a surface
                        coating, including, but not limited to, spray booths, flow
                        coaters, flashoff areas, air dryers and ovens.

                I.L.1.c.(vi)    “Coating Unit” means a series of one or more coating
                        applicators and any associated drying area and/or oven
                        wherein a coating is applied, dried, and/or cured. A coating
                        unit ends at the point where the coating is dried or cured, or
                        prior to any subsequent application of a different coating. It is
                        not necessary for a coating unit to have an oven or flash-off
                        area.

                I.L.1.c.(vii) “Drum” means any cylindrical metal shipping
                        container larger than 12 gallons’ capacity but no larger than
                        110 gallons’ capacity.
                I.L.1.c.(viii) “Electric-Insulating Varnish” means a non-convertible-
                        type coating applied to electric motors, components of
                        electric motors, or power transformers, to provide electrical,
                        mechanical, and environmental protection or resistance.




                                                                                      36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.L.1.c.(ix)   “Etching Filler” means a coating that contains less
                      than 23 percent solids by weight and at least 1/2-percent
                      acid by weight, and is used instead of applying a
                      pretreatment coating followed by a primer.
              I.L.1.c.(xi)   "Extreme Environmental Conditions” means exposure
                      to any of the following: temperatures consistently above
                      95°C, detergents, abrasive and scouring agents, solvents,
                      and corrosive environments.

              I.L.1.c.(xii) “Extreme High-Gloss Coating” means a coating
                      which, when tested by the American Society for Testing
                      Material Test Method D-523 adopted in 1980, shows a
                      reflectance of 75 or more on a 60° meter.
              I.L.1.c.(xiii) "Extreme Performance Coatings” means coatings
                      designed for extreme environmental conditions (i.e., chronic
                      exposure to corrosive, caustic or acidic agents, chemicals,
                      chemical fumes, chemical mixtures or solutions; repeated
                      exposure to temperatures in excess of 250°F; or repeated
                      heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear and repeated
                      scrubbing with industrial grade solvents, cleaners, or
                      scouring agents).

              I.L.1.c.(xiv) “Heat-Resistant Coating” means a coating that must
                      withstand a temperature of at least 400°F during normal use.

              I.L.1.c.(xv) “High-Performance Architectural Coating” means a
                      coating used to protect architectural subsections and which
                      meets the requirements of the Architectural Aluminum
                      Manufacturer Association's publication number AAMA 2604-
                      05 (Voluntary Specification, Performance Requirements and
                      Test Procedures for High Performance Organic Coatings on
                      Aluminum Extrusions and Panels) or 2605-05 (Voluntary
                      Specification, Performance Requirements and Test
                      Procedures for Superior Performing Organic Coatings on
                      Aluminum Extrusions and Panels).

              I.L.1.c.(xv) “Metallic Coating” means a coating which contains
                      more than 5 grams of metal particles per liter of coating as
                      applied. “Metal particles” are pieces of a pure elemental
                      metal or a combination of elemental metals.




                                                                                     37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.L.1.c.(xvi) “Military Specification Coating” means a coating which
                      has a formulation approved by a United States Military
                      Agency for use on military equipment.


              I.L.1.c.(xvii) “Mold-Seal Coating” means the initial coating applied
                      to a new mold or a repaired mold to provide a smooth
                      surface which, when coated with a mold release coating,
                      prevents products from sticking to the mold.

              I.L.1.c.(xviii) “Multi-Component Coating” means a coating requiring
                      the addition of a separate reactive resin, commonly known
                      as a catalyst or hardener, before application to form an
                      acceptable dry film.
              I.L.1.c.(xix) “One-Component Coating” means a coating that is
                      ready for application as it comes out of its container to form
                      an acceptable dry film. A thinner, necessary to reduce the
                      viscosity, is not considered a component.

              I.L.1.c.(xx) “Pan Backing” means a coating applied to the surface
                      of pots, pans, or other cooking implements that are exposed
                      directly to a flame or other heating elements.

              I.L.1.c.(xxi) “Prefabricated Architectural Coating” means coatings
                      applied to metal parts and products which are to be used as
                      an architectural structure.

              I.L.1.c.(xxii) “Repair Coating” means a coating used to re-coat
                      portions of a previously coated product which has sustained
                      mechanical damage to the coating following normal coating
                      operations.

              I.L.1.c.(xxiii) “Silicone Release Coating” means any coating which
                      contains silicone resin and is intended to prevent food from
                      sticking to metal surfaces such as baking pans.

              I.L.1.c.(xxiv) “Solar-Absorbent Coating” means a coating which has
                      as its prime purpose the absorption of solar radiation.

              I.L.1.c.(xxv) “Touch-Up Coating” means a coating used to cover
                      minor coating imperfections appearing after the main coating
                      operation.




                                                                                   38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                    I.L.1.c.(xxvi) “Vacuum-Metalizing Coating” means the undercoat
                            applied to the substrate on which the metal is deposited or
                            the overcoat applied directly to the metal film. Vacuum
                            metalizing/physical vapor deposition (PVD) is the process
                            whereby metal is vaporized and deposited on a substrate in
                            a vacuum chamber.

     I.L.2. Provisions for Specific Processes

             I.L.2.a.       Until January 1, 2022, no owner or operator of a facility or
                     operation engaging in the surface coating of manufactured metal
                     parts or metal products may operate a coating application system
                     subject to this regulation that emits VOC in excess of:

                    I.L.2.a.(i)     Clear coatings: 0.52 kg/lc (4.3 lb/gc)

                    I.L.2.a.(ii)    Extreme Performance Coatings: 0.42 kg/lc (3.5 lb/gc)

                    I.L.2.a.(iii)   Air-Dried Coatings: 0.42 kg/lc (3.5 lb/gc)

                    I.L.2.a.(iv)   Other coatings and systems: 0.36 kg/lc (3.0 lb/gc)
                            delivered to a coating applicator for all other coatings and
                            coating application systems.

             I.L.2.b.         Beginning January 1, 2022, the owner or operator of a
                     facility or operation engaging in the surface coating of
                     manufactured metal parts or metal products must:

                    I.L.2.b.(i)    Reduce VOC emissions from coatings and thinners
                            with an emission control system having a control efficiency
                            of 90% or greater;

                    I.L.2.b.(ii)  Use products that comply with the following VOC
                            content limits (VOC per volume solid) in Table 1; or

       Table 1 – Metal parts and products VOC content limits (kg VOC/l solids)

Coating category                              Air dried                      Baked

                                     kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal     kg VOC/l       lb VOC/gal
                                      solids          solids       solids           solids

General one component                  0.54               4.52       0.40            3.35

General multi-component                0.54               4.52       0.40            3.35

Camouflage                             0.80               6.67       0.80            6.67



                                                                                            39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

        Table 1 – Metal parts and products VOC content limits (kg VOC/l solids)

Coating category                           Air dried                   Baked

                                  kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal    kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal
                                   solids          solids      solids          solids

Electric-insulating varnish         0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Etching filler                      0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Extreme high-gloss                  0.80               6.67     0.61           5.06

Extreme performance                 0.80               6.67     0.61           5.06

Heat-resistant                      0.80               6.67     0.61           5.06

High performance architectural      4.56               38.0     4.56           38.0

High temperature                    0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Metallic                            0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Military specification              0.54               4.52     0.40           3.35

Mold-seal                           0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Pan backing                         0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Prefabricated architectural         0.80               6.67     0.40           3.35
multi-component

Prefabricated architectural         0.80               6.67     0.40           3.35
one-component

Pretreatment coatings               0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Silicone release                    0.80               6.67     0.80           5.06

Solar-absorbent                     0.80               6.67     0.61           5.06

Vacuum-metalizing                   0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Drum coating, new, exterior         0.54               4.52     0.54           4.52

Drum coating, new, interior         0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67

Drum coating, reconditioned,        0.80               6.67     0.80           6.67
exterior




                                                                                      40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           Table 1 – Metal parts and products VOC content limits (kg VOC/l solids)

 Coating category                               Air dried                     Baked

                                       kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal    kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal
                                        solids          solids      solids          solids

 Drum coating, reconditioned,            1.17               9.78     1.17             9.78
 interior



                         I.L.2.b.(iii)  Use products that comply with the following VOC
                                 content limits (excluding water and exempt compounds, as
                                 applied) in Table 2.

     Table 2 – Metal parts and products VOC content limits (lb VOC/gallon coating)
Coating category                              Air dried                     Baked
                                     kg VOC/l       lb VOC/gal     kg VOC/l      lb VOC/gal
                                      coating         coating       coating        coating

General one component                  0.34               2.8        0.28             2.3
General multi-component                0.34               2.8        0.28             2.3
Camouflage                             0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Electric-insulating varnish            0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Etching filler                         0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Extreme high-gloss                     0.42               3.5        0.36             3.0
Extreme performance                    0.42               3.5        0.36             3.0
Heat-resistant                         0.42               3.5        0.36             3.0
High performance                       0.74               6.2        0.74             6.2
architectural

High temperature                       0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Metallic                               0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Military specification                 0.34               2.8        0.28             2.3
Mold-seal                              0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5
Pan backing                            0.42               3.5        0.42             3.5



                                                                                             41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

     Table 2 – Metal parts and products VOC content limits (lb VOC/gallon coating)
Coating category                             Air dried                         Baked
                                   kg VOC/l        lb VOC/gal       kg VOC/l        lb VOC/gal
                                    coating          coating         coating          coating

Prefabricated architectural           0.42               3.5           0.28              2.3
multi-component
Prefabricated architectural           0.42               3.5           0.28              2.3
one-component
Pretreatment coatings                 0.42               3.5           0.42              3.5
Repair and touch-up                   0.42               3.5           0.36              3.0
Silicone release                      0.42               3.5           0.42              3.5
Solar-absorbent                       0.42               3.5           0.36              3.0
Vacuum-metalizing                     0.42               3.5           0.42              3.5
Drum coating, new, exterior           0.34               2.8           0.34              2.8
Drum coating, new, interior           0.42               3.5           0.42              3.5
Drum coating, reconditioned,          0.42               3.5           0.42              3.5
exterior
Drum coating, reconditioned,          0.50               4.2           0.50              4.2
interior




             I.L.2.c.        If more than one emission limitation in Sections I.L.2.a.,
                     I.L.2.b.(ii), or I.L.2.b.(iii) applies to a specific coating, then the least
                     stringent emission limitation applies.

             I.L.2.d.        Pioneer Metal Finishing, Inc., a surface coating operation, is
                     authorized pursuant to Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
                     V.E.2.e. and Regulation Number 25, Part A, Section II.D.1.a. to use
                     up to twenty (20) tons of certified emission reduction credits of
                     volatile organic compounds (VOC) as an alternative compliance
                     method to satisfy the surface coating emission limitations of
                     Regulation Number 25 in accordance with and upon demonstration
                     of the conditions set forth:



                                                                                               42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.L.2.d.(i)    Certified emission reduction credits for VOCs
                      (methanol) to be used in this transaction were formerly
                      owned by the Coors Brewing Company, registered and
                      issued in Emissions Reduction Credit Permit 91AR120R on
                      July 25, 1994;

              I.L.2.d.(ii)   Those emission reduction credits were originally
                      obtained by Coors from Verticel, a company that produced
                      honeycomb packaging material and was located within five
                      miles of the PMF facility;

              I.L.2.d.(iii)   The use of these VOC emission reduction credits
                      identified shall be used to satisfy VOC limitations of certain
                      specified surface coatings in excess of Control Technique
                      Guidance as specified in Regulation Number 25, Section
                      I.L.2.a. and Section I.A.6.b., and applicable to the Pioneer
                      Metal finishing operations;

              I.L.2.d.(iv)   Such emission reduction credits identified will be used
                      by PMF to achieve compliance with Regulation Number 25
                      to compensate for ozone precursor emission of VOCs from
                      non-compliant coatings as authorized by Regulation Number
                      3, Part A, Section V.E.2.e. In order to satisfy the
                      photochemical reactivity equivalency requirement of VOC
                      trades, the methanol VOC ERCs will be reduced on a ratio of
                      1.1:1 for VOCs of toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene and ketones
                      emitted from non-compliant coatings. All other VOCs
                      involved in this transaction are considered to be of the same
                      degree of photochemical reactivity;

              I.L.2.d.(v)    This transaction is only valid within the
                      Denver/Boulder nonattainment area as described at 40 CFR
                      81, Subchapter C - Air Programs, Subpart C, Section 107 -
                      Attainment Status Designations, Section 81.306 (February
                      16, 1995);
              I.L.2.d.(vi)  This transaction shall be calculated upon a pound for
                      pound basis and averaged over a maximum 24-hour period.

              I.L.2.d.(vii) This transaction shall be effective upon approval by
                      the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a revision to
                      the Colorado State Implementation Plan and after issuance




                                                                                   43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                     of a State Construction Permit incorporating, but not limited
                     to, the conditions and requirements of the Section;

              I.L.2.d.(viii) This transaction may not be used to satisfy any
                      current or future requirements of NSPS, BACT, LAER, or
                      MACT requirements of HAPs which may apply to PMF,
                      except that this transaction may be used to satisfy control
                      technique guidance or RACT requirements contained in
                      Regulation Number 25 which are applicable to PMF;

              I.L.2.d.(ix)   This transaction shall not interfere with any applicable
                      requirement concerning attainment and reasonable further
                      progress in the Colorado State Implementation Plan or any
                      other applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act;
              I.L.2.d.(x)    This transaction shall be registered and enforced
                      through a State Construction Permit issued to Pioneer Metal
                      Finishing, Inc. containing, but not limited to the conditions
                      and limitations set forth in this Section;

              I.L.2.d.(xi)   Such state Construction Permit issued to Pioneer
                      Metal Finishing, Inc. shall specify, among other, things the
                      necessary monitory, recordkeeping and reporting
                      requirements to insure that the emission reduction credits
                      are applied in accordance with the conditions and
                      requirements of this Section;

              I.L.2.d.(xii) The state Construction Permit shall allow a daily
                      maximum limitation of 160 lbs. of VOC emissions from non-
                      compliant surface coatings and an annual limitation of
                      40,000 lbs. of non-compliant VOC emissions. The annual
                      limitation shall be calculated on a 12-month rolling total
                      calculated on the first day of each month using the previous
                      12 months.

              I.L.2.d.(xiii) The state Construction Permit shall limit the VOC-
                      HAP emissions to less than ten (10) per year of any one
                      HAP or twenty-five (25) tons per year of any combination of
                      HAP emissions; and

              I.L.2.d.(xiv) PMF will maintain records of daily and monthly totals
                      of non-compliant surface coatings used in its operation and
                      report such usages on an annual basis to the Division or as
                      otherwise requested.


                                                                                     44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.L.3. Application methods. Beginning January 1, 2022, unless the owner or
           operator is reducing VOC emissions by complying with Section I.L.2.b.(i),
           the owner or operator must use one or more of the following coating
           application methods
          I.L.3.a.       Electrostatic application.

          I.L.3.b.       High volume low pressure (HVLP) spray.

          I.L.3.c.       Flow coat.

          I.L.3.d.       Roller coat.

          I.L.3.e.       Dip coat, including electrodeposition.

          I.L.3.f. Airless spray,

          I.L.3.g.       Air-assisted airless spray.

          I.L.3.h.       Other coating application method capable of achieving a
                  transfer efficiency equivalent to or better than that achieved by
                  HVLP spraying.

    I.L.4. Work practices, beginning January 1, 2022, owners or operator’s must

          I.L.4.a.      Store all VOC containing coatings, thinners, coating-related
                  waste materials, cleaning materials, and used shop towels in
                  closed containers.

          I.L.4.b.       Keep mixing and storage containers used for VOC
                  containing coatings, thinners, coating-related waste materials,
                  cleaning materials, and used shop towels closed at all times except
                  when depositing or removing materials.

          I.L.4.c.       Minimize spills of VOC containing coatings, thinners,
                  coating-related waste materials cleaning materials, and used shop
                  towels.

          I.L.4.d.      Convey VOC containing coatings, thinners, coating-related
                  waste materials, cleaning materials, and used shop towels in
                  closed containers.

          I.L.4.e.       Minimize VOC emissions from cleaning of application,
                  storage, mixing, and conveying equipment by cleaning equipment
                  without atomizing the cleaning solvent and capturing spent solvent
                  in closed containers.




                                                                                      45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.L.5. Recordkeeping. Beginning January 1, 2022, owners or operators must
              maintain the following records for five (5) years and make them available
              to the Division upon request

             I.L.5.a.       Records of the calendar year VOC emission estimates
                     demonstrating whether the coating operation meets or exceeds the
                     applicability threshold in Section I.L.1.a.

             I.L.5.b.       If applicable, monthly records such as safety data sheets or
                     other analytical data from the coating manufacturer showing the
                     VOC type and VOC content used to comply with the control
                     requirements in Sections I.L.2.b. and I.L.2.c.

             I.L.5.c.        If applicable, records demonstrating that a listed exemption
                     to this Section I.L. applies.

             I.L.5.d.      If applicable, monthly records sufficient to demonstrate
                     compliance with the control requirement in Section I.L.2.a.

       I.L.6. Reporting.

             I.L.6.a.        By April 30 2026, and each year thereafter, the owner or
                     operator of a metal parts and product surface coating facility where
                     the total actual VOC emissions from all metal parts and product
                     surface coating operations, including related cleaning activities, at
                     that facility are equal to or greater than 2.7 tons per 12-month
                     rolling period must submit a single annual report using the Division-
                     approved format that includes a demonstration, such as safety data
                     sheets or other analytical data from the coating manufacturer, that
                     products used during the calendar year (e.g., calendar year 2025
                     for the April 30, 2026, report) comply with the VOC content limits
                     (VOC per volume solid) in Table 1.

             I.L.6.b.       Beginning in 2025, the owner or operator of a metal parts
                     and product surface coating facility where the total actual VOC
                     emissions from all metal parts and product surface coating
                     operations, including related cleaning activities, at that facility are
                     equal to or greater than 25 tons per year must submit with the
                     semi-annual report required by the facility’s operating permit
                     documentation that the products used during the previous semi-
                     annual reporting period comply with the VOC content limits (VOC
                     per volume solid) in Table 1.

I.M.   Flat Wood Paneling Coating.



                                                                                               46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.M.1. Definitions

           I.M.1.a.     "Class II Hardboard Paneling Finish" means finishes which
                  meet the specifications of Voluntary Product Standard PS-59-73 as
                  approved by the American National Standards Institute.

           I.M.1.b.      "Coating Application System" means all operations and
                  equipment which apply, convey, and dry a surface coating,
                  including, but not limited to, spray booths, flow coaters, conveyers,
                  flashoff areas, air dryers and ovens.

           I.M.1.c.       "Hardboard" is a panel manufactured primarily from inter-
                  felted ligno-cellulosic fibers which are consolidated under heat and
                  pressure in a hot press.

           I.M.1.d.     "Hardboard Plywood" is plywood whose surface layer is a
                  veneer of hardwood.

           I.M.1.e.      "Natural Finish Hardwood Plywood Panels" means panels
                  whose original grain pattern is enhanced by essentially transparent
                  finishes frequently supplemented by fillers and toners.

           I.M.1.f.       "Printed Interior Panels" means panels whose grain or
                   natural surface is obscured by fillers and basecoats upon which a
                   simulated grain or decorative pattern is printed.
           I.M.1.g.       "Thin Particleboard" is a manufactured board 1/4 inch or less
                  in thickness made of individual wood particles which have been
                  coated with a binder and formed into flat sheets by pressure.

           I.M.1.h.     "Tileboard" means paneling that has a colored waterproof
                  surface coating.

    I.M.2. Applicability

    This section applies to all flat wood manufacturing and surface finishing facilities
    that manufacture printed interior panels made of hardwood plywood and thin
    particle board; natural finish hardwood plywood panels, or hardboard paneling
    with Class II finishes. This section does not apply to the manufacture of exterior
    siding, tileboard, or particleboard used as a furniture component.

    I.M.3. Emission Limitations

           I.M.3.a.      2.9 kg per 100 square meters of coated finished product (6.0
                  lb/1,000 sq. ft.) from printed interior panels, regardless of the
                  number of coats applied;



                                                                                      47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.M.3.b.      5.8 kg per 100 square meters of coated finished product
                     (12.0 lb/1,000 sq. ft.) from natural finish hardwood plywood panels,
                     regardless of the number of coats applied; and

              I.M.3.c.      4.8 kg per 100 square meters of coated finished product
                     (10.0 lb/1,000 sq. ft.) from Class II finishes on hardboard panels,
                     regardless of the number of coats applied.

I.N.   Manufacture of Pneumatic Rubber Tires
       I.N.1. Definitions

              I.N.1.a.       "Bead Dipping" means the dipping of an assembled tire bead
                     into a solvent-based cement.

              I.N.1.b.      "Green Tires" means assembled tires before holding and
                     curing have occurred.
              I.N.1.c.      "Green Tire Spraying" means the spraying of green tires,
                     both inside and outside, with release compounds which help
                     remove air from the tire during molding and prevent the tire from
                     sticking to the mold after curing.

              I.N.1.d.      "Pneumatic Rubber Tire Manufacture" means the production
                     of pneumatic rubber, passenger type tires on a mass production
                     basis.

              I.N.1.e.      "Passenger Type Tire" means agricultural, airplane,
                     industrial, mobile home, light and medium duty truck, and
                     passenger vehicle tires with a bead diameter up to 20.0 inches and
                     cross section dimension up to 12.8 inches.

              I.N.1.f. "Tread End Cementing" means the application of a solvent-based
                       cement to the tire tread ends.

              I.N.1.g.     "Undertread Cementing" means the application of a solvent-
                     based cement to the underside of a tire tread.

              I.N.1.h.      "Water Based Sprays" means release compounds, sprayed
                     on the inside and outside of green tires, in which solids, water, and
                     emulsifiers have been substituted for organic solvents.




                                                                                           48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

    I.N.2. Applicability

    This section applies to VOC emissions from the following operations in all
    pneumatic rubber tire facilities: undertread cementing, tread end cementing,
    bead dipping, and green tire spraying.

    The provisions of this section do not apply to the production of specialty tires for
    antique or other vehicles when produced on an irregular basis or with short
    production runs. This exemption applies only to tires produced on equipment
    separate from normal production lines for passenger type tires.

    I.N.3. Provisions for Specific Processes
           I.N.3.a.      The owner or operator of an undertread cementing, tread
                  end cementing, or bead dipping operation subject to this regulation
                  shall:

                  I.N.3.a.(i)  Install and operate a capture system, designed to
                         achieve maximum reasonable capture, up to 85 percent by
                         weight of VOC emitted, from all undertread cementing, tread
                         end cementing and bead dipping operations. Maximum
                         reasonable capture shall be consistent with the following
                         documents:

                           I.N.3.a.(i)(A) Industrial Ventilation, A Manual of
                                  Recommended Practices, 17th Edition, American
                                  Federation of Industrial Hygienists, 1982.

                           I.N.3.a.(i)(B) Recommended Industrial Ventilation
                                  Guidelines, U.S. Department of Health, Education and
                                  Welfare, National Institute of Occupational Safety and
                                  Health, January 1976.

                  I.N.3.a.(ii)  Install and operate a control device that meets the
                         requirements of one of the following:

                           I.N.3.a.(ii)(A) A carbon adsorption system designed and
                                  operated in a manner such that there is at least a 95.0
                                  percent removal of VOC by weight from the gases
                                  ducted to the control device; or,




                                                                                       49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                            I.N.3.a.(ii)(B) An incineration system that oxidizes at least
                                   90.0 percent of the nonmethane volatile organic
                                   compounds (VOC measured as total combustible
                                   carbon) which enter the incinerator to carbon dioxide
                                   and water.

       I.N.4. The owner or operator of a green tire spraying operation subject to this
              regulation must implement one of the following means of reducing volatile
              organic compound emissions:

              I.N.4.a.     Substitute water-based sprays for the normal solvent-based
                     mold release compound; or,

                     I.N.4.a.(i)   Install a capture system designed and operated in a
                            manner that will capture and transfer at least 90.0 percent of
                            the VOC emitted by the green tire spraying operation to a
                            control device; and,
                     I.N.4.a.(ii)  In addition to Section I.N.4.a.(i), install and operate a
                            control device that meets the requirements of one of the
                            following:

                            I.N.4.a.(ii)(A) a carbon adsorption system designed and
                                   operated in a manner such that there is at least 95.0
                                   percent removal of VOC by weight from the gases
                                   ducted to the control device; or,

                            I.N.4.a.(ii)(B) an incineration system that oxidizes at least 90
                                   percent of the nonmethane volatile organic
                                   compounds (VOC measured as total combustible
                                   carbon) to carbon dioxide and water.

       I.N.5. Testing of capture system efficiency shall meet the requirements of
              Section I.A.5.e.

       I.N.6. Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements, including
              recordkeeping, of Sections I.A.3.a., b., c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

       I.N.7. The applicable EPA reference methods 1 through 4, and 25, of 40 CFR
              Part 60 (March 29, 2023), shall be used to determine the efficiency of
              control devices.

I.O.   Wood Products Coating

       I.O.1. Definitions



                                                                                           50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.O.1.a.       “As Applied” means the VOC and solids content of the
                finishing material that is actually used for coating the substrate. It
                includes the contribution of materials used for in-house dilution of
                the finishing material.
         I.O.1.b.     “Cleaning Operation” means operations in which organic
                solvent is used to remove coating materials from equipment used in
                wood furniture manufacturing operations.

         I.O.1.c.      “Conventional Air Spray” means a spray coating method in
                which the coating is atomized by mixing it with compressed air at
                an air pressure greater than 10 pounds per square inch (gauge) at
                the point of atomization. Airless and air assisted spray technologies
                are not conventional air spray because the coating is not atomized
                by mixing it with compressed air. Electrostatic spray technology is
                also not considered conventional air spray because an electrostatic
                charge is employed to attract the coating to the workplace.

         I.O.1.d.       “Equipment Leak” means emissions of VOCs from pumps,
                valves, flanges, or other equipment used to transfer or apply
                finishing materials or organic solvents.

         I.O.1.e.       “Finishing Material” means a coating used in the wood
                furniture industry including, but not limited to, basecoats, stains,
                washcoats, sealers, and topcoats.
         I.O.1.f.        “Finishing Operation” means those activities in which a
                 finishing material, including, but not limited to, basecoats, stains,
                 washcoats, sealers, and topcoats, is applied to a substrate and is
                 subsequently air-dried, cured in an oven, or cured by radiation.

         I.O.1.g.      “Organic Solvent” means a liquid containing VOCs that is
                used for dissolving or dispersing constituents in a coating, adjusting
                the viscosity of a coating, cleaning, or washoff. When used in a
                coating, the organic solvent evaporates during drying and does not
                become part of the dried film.

         I.O.1.h.      “Sealer” means a finishing material used to seal the pores of
                a wood substrate before additional coats of finishing material are
                applied. Washcoats, which are used in some finishing systems to
                optimize aesthetics, are not sealers.




                                                                                         51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.O.1.i. “Strippable Booth Coating” means a coating that is applied to a
                    booth wall to provide a protective film to receive overspray during
                    finishing operations that is subsequently peeled off and disposed,
                    and reduces or eliminates the need to use organic solvents to clean
                    booth walls.

           I.O.1.j. “Topcoat” means the last film-building finishing material applied in a
                    finishing system. Non-permanent final finishes are not topcoats.

           I.O.1.k.      “Washcoat” means a transparent special purpose coating
                  that has a solids content by weight of 12 percent or less.
                  Washcoats are applied over initial stains to protect and control color
                  and to stiffen the wood fibers in order to aid sanding.

           I.O.1.l. “Washoff Operation” means those operations in which organic
                    solvent is used to remove coating from a substrate.

           I.O.1.m.      “Wood Furniture” means any product made of wood, a wood
                  product such as rattan or wicker, or an engineer wood product such
                  as particleboard.
           I.O.1.n.     “Wood Furniture Component” means any part that is used in
                  the manufacture of wood furniture including, but not limited to,
                  drawer sides, cabinet doors, seat cushions, and laminated tops.

           I.O.1.o.       “Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operation” means the
                  finishing, cleaning, and washoff operations associated with the
                  production of wood furniture or wood furniture components.

    I.O.2. Applicability

    This section applies to wood furniture manufacturing operations with uncontrolled
    actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to 25 tons per calendar year.

    Beginning July 1, 2021, this section applies to other wood products coating
    operations with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to 50
    tons per year (as of January 27, 2020, located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control
    Area).
    Beginning May 1, 2023, this section applies to other wood products coating
    operations with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or equal to 25
    tons per year (as of November 7, 2022, located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control
    Area).

    I.O.3. Emission Limitations



                                                                                       52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.O.3.a.      The owner or operator of a wood furniture manufacturing or
                other wood products coating operation must limit VOC emissions
                from finishing operations by:

               I.O.3.a.(i)   Using topcoats with a VOC content equal to or less
                      than 0.8 lb VOC/lb solids (0.8 kg VOC/kg solids); or

               I.O.3.a.(ii)   Using a finishing system of:

                       I.O.3.a.(ii)(A) Sealers with a VOC content equal to or less
                              than 1.9 lb VOC/lb solids (1.9 kg VOC/kg solids), as
                              applied; and
                       I.O.3.a.(ii)(B) Topcoats with a VOC content equal to or less
                              than 1.8 lb VOC/lb solids (1.8 kg VOC/kg solids), as
                              applied; or

               I.O.3.a.(iii) For sources using acid-cured alkyd amino vinyl
                      sealers or acid-cured alkyd amino conversion varnish
                      topcoats:

                       I.O.3.a.(iii)(A) Use acid-cured alkyd amino vinyl sealers with
                              a VOC content equal to or less than 2.3 lb VOC/lb
                              solids (2.3 kg VOC/kg solids), as applied, and an
                              acid-cured alkyd amino conversion varnish topcoat
                              with a VOC content equal to or less than 2.0 lb
                              VOC/lb solids (2.0 kg VOC/kg solids), as applied; or

                       I.O.3.a.(iii)(B) Use acid-cured alkyd amino conversion varnish
                              topcoat with a VOC content equal to or less than 2.0
                              lb VOC/lb solids (2.0 kg VOC/kg solids), as applied,
                              and sealers with a VOC content equal to or less than
                              1.9 lb VOC/lb solids (1.9 kg VOC/kg solids); or
                       I.O.3.a.(iii)(C)     Use acid-cured alkyd amino vinyl
                              sealers with a VOC content equal to or less than 2.3
                              lb VOC/lb solids (2.3 kg VOC/kg solids), as applied,
                              and topcoats with a VOC content equal to or less than
                              1.8 lb VOC/lb solids (1.8 kg VOC/kg solids), as
                              applied.

         I.O.3.b.      The owner or operator of a wood furniture manufacturing or
                other wood products coating operation must use strippable booth
                coatings with a VOC content equal to or less than 0.8 lb VOC/lb
                solids (0.8 kg VOC/kg solids), as applied.


                                                                                    53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.O.3.c.      The owner or operator of a wood furniture manufacturing or
                 other wood products coating operation must use compounds
                 containing equal to or less than 8.0 percent by weight of VOC for
                 cleaning spray booth components other than conveyors, continuous
                 coaters and their enclosures, and/or metal filters, unless the spray
                 booth is being refurbished. If the spray booth is refurbished (i.e.,
                 spray booth coating or other material used to cover the booth is
                 being replaced), the owner or operator must use equal to or less
                 than 1.0 gallon of organic solvent to prepare the booth prior to
                 applying the booth coating.

    I.O.4. Work Practices

          I.O.4.a.     In addition to complying with Sections I.A.7. and I.A.9., the
                 owner or operator of a wood furniture manufacturing or other wood
                 products coating operation must:

                I.O.4.a.(i)   Develop an operator training program that includes, at
                       a minimum, appropriate application techniques, appropriate
                       cleaning and washoff procedures, appropriate equipment
                       setup and adjustment to minimize finishing material usage
                       and overspray, and appropriate management of cleanup
                       wastes;

                I.O.4.a.(ii)  Conduct monthly visual inspections of all equipment
                       used to transfer or apply finishing materials or organic
                       solvents for equipment leaks and repair equipment leaks
                       within 15 working days, or within 3 months if the leaking
                       equipment must be replaced by a new purchase;

                I.O.4.a.(iii) Collect cleaning and washoff solvents into closed
                       containers;

                I.O.4.a.(iv)   Use conventional air spray guns only to:

                       I.O.4.a.(iv)(A)     Apply finishing materials with a VOC
                              content equal to or less than 1.0 lb VOC/lb solids (1.0
                              kg VOC/kg solids), as applied;
                       I.O.4.a.(iv)(B)        Touch-up and repair after completion of
                              the finishing operation, after stain and before other
                              finishing material, or to apply stain on a part for which
                              it is technically or economically infeasible to use any
                              other spray application technology.



                                                                                     54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.O.5. Recordkeeping

              I.O.5.a.      The owner or operator of a wood furniture manufacturing or
                     other wood products coating operation must keep the following
                     records for five (5) years and make them available for inspection by
                     the Division upon request:

                     I.O.5.a.(i)   Records of calendar year VOC emission estimates
                            demonstrating whether the wood furniture manufacturing
                            operation means or exceeds the applicability threshold in
                            Section I.O.2.;

                     I.O.5.a.(ii)   Records of the operator training program;

                     I.O.5.a.(iii) Records of the date and results of the monthly
                            equipment inspections and any repairs that were made;

                     I.O.5.a.(iv) Records such as, but not limited to, data sheets
                            documenting how the as applied values were determined
                            and safety data sheets or other analytical data from the
                            manufacturer showing the VOC content of each sealer,
                            topcoat, strippable booth coating, or cleaning booth
                            compound subject to the emission limits in Section I.O.3.;
                            and

                     I.O.5.a.(v)   Monthly records of the quantity and type of organic
                            cleaning and washoff solvent used.

       I.O.6. Reporting. Beginning in 2025, the owner or operator must submit with the
              semi-annual report required by the facility’s operating permit
              documentation that the products used during the previous semi-annual
              reporting period comply with the VOC content limits in Section I.O.3.

I.P.   Motor Vehicle Materials

       I.P.1. Applicability

              I.P.1.a.      Beginning May 1, 2023, this section applies to automotive
                     coating facilities where the total actual VOC emissions from motor
                     vehicle materials and automotive coatings, including related
                     cleaning activities, at that facility are equal to or greater than 2.7
                     tons per 12-month rolling period, before consideration of controls.




                                                                                          55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.P.1.b.      Beginning May 1, 2026, (i.e., after the effective date of a
                  finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the serious
                  ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the
                  2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard), this section
                  applies to any person who manufactures, distributes, and/or sells
                  automotive coatings that are used to coat any part or component of
                  motor vehicles (such as cars, buses, and golf carts) or mobile
                  equipment (such as railcars and tractors).

           I.P.1.c.       This section does not apply to

                  I.P.1.c.(i)    Automotive coatings or associated solvents offered
                          for sale, sold, or manufactured for use outside of Colorado or
                          for shipment to other manufacturers for reformulation or
                          repackaging.

                  I.P.1.c.(ii)   Aerosol coating products.
                  I.P.1.c.(iii)   Automotive coatings sold, supplied, or offered for sale
                          in 0.5 fluid ounce or smaller containers intended to be used
                          by the general public to repair tiny surface imperfections.

                  I.P.1.c.(iv)   Automotive coating facilities subject to Section I.B.

    I.P.2. Definitions
           I.P.2.a.      “Adhesion Promoter” means a coating that is labeled and
                  formulated to be applied to uncoated plastic surfaces to facilitate
                  bonding of subsequent coatings and on which a subsequent
                  coating is applied.

           I.P.2.b.       “Associated Parts and Components” means structures,
                  devices, pieces, modules, sections, assemblies, subassemblies, or
                  elements of motor vehicles or mobile equipment that are designed
                  to be a part of motor vehicles or mobile equipment but which are
                  not attached to motor vehicles or mobile equipment at the time of
                  coating the structure, device, piece, module, section, assembly,
                  subassembly. Associated parts and components does not include
                  circuit boards.




                                                                                         56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.P.2.c.         “Automotive Coating Facility” means any shop, business,
                 location, or parcel of land where motor vehicles or mobile
                 equipment or their associated parts and components are coated,
                 including autobody collision repair shops. Automotive coating
                 facility does not include the original equipment manufacturing plant
                 where the motor vehicle or mobile equipment is completely
                 assembled.

         I.P.2.d.      “Clear Coating” means any coating that contains no
                pigments and is labeled and formulated for application over a color
                coating or clear coating.

         I.P.2.e.      “Color Coating” means any pigmented coating applied over a
                primer, adhesion promotor, or color coating that requires a
                subsequent clear coating. Color coatings include metallic/iridescent
                color coatings. Color coatings does not include adhesion
                promotors, primers, and multi-color coatings.

         I.P.2.f. “Metallic/Iridescent Color Coating” means any coating that contains
                  more than 0.042 pounds per gallon (5 grams per liter) of metal or
                  iridescent particles as applied, where such particles are visible in
                  the dried film.
         I.P.2.g.       “Mobile Equipment” means any device that may be drawn
                and/or driven on rails or a roadway including, but not limited to,
                trains, railcars, truck trailers, mobile cranes, bulldozers, street
                cleaners, and implements of husbandry or agriculture.

         I.P.2.h.      “Motor Vehicle” means any self-propelled vehicle including,
                but not limited to, cars, trucks, buses, golf carts, vans, motorcycles,
                tanks, and armored personnel carriers.

         I.P.2.i. “Motor Vehicle Bedliner” means a multi-component coating applied
                  to a cargo bed after the application of topcoat to provide additional
                  durability and chip resistance.
         I.P.2.j. “Motor Vehicle Cavity Wax” means a coating applied into the
                  cavities of the vehicle primarily for the purpose of enhancing
                  corrosion protection.

         I.P.2.k.       “Motor Vehicle Deadener” means a coating applied to
                 selected vehicle surfaces primarily for the purpose of reducing the
                 sound of road noise in the passenger compartment.




                                                                                      57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.P.2.l. “Motor Vehicle Gasket/Sealing Material” means a fluid applied to
                  coat a gasket or replace and perform the same function as a gasket
                  and includes room temperature vulcanization (RTV) seal material.

         I.P.2.m.      “Motor Vehicle Lubricating Wax/Compound” means a
                protective lubricating material applied to vehicle hubs and hinges.

         I.P.2.n.       “Motor Vehicle Sealer” means a high viscosity material
                generally, but not always, applied in the paint shop after the body
                has received an electrodeposition primer coating and before the
                application of subsequent coatings (e.g., primer-surfacer) with the
                primary purpose to fill body joints completely so that there is no
                intrusion of water, gases, or corrosive materials into the passenger
                area of the body compartment. The material may also be referred
                to as sealant, sealant primer, or caulk.

         I.P.2.o.      “Motor Vehicle Trunk Interior Coating” means a coating
                applied to the trunk interior to provide chip protection.

         I.P.2.p.      “Motor Vehicle Underbody Coating” means a coating applied
                to the undercarriage or firewall to prevent corrosion and/or provide
                chip protection.

         I.P.2.q.     “Multi-color Coating” means any coating that exhibits more
                than one color in the dried film after a single application and is
                packaged in a single container.

         I.P.2.r. “Pretreatment Coating” means any coating that contains a minimum
                  of one-half percent acid by weight and not more than 16 percent
                  solids by weight necessary to provide surface etching and is
                  labeled and formulated for application directly to bare metal
                  surfaces to provide corrosion resistance and adhesion.

         I.P.2.s.       “Primer” means any coating labeled and formulated for
                 application to a substrate to provide a bond between the substrate
                 and subsequent coats, corrosion resistance, a smooth substrate
                 surface, or resistance to penetration of subsequent coats and on
                 which a subsequent coating is applied. Primers may be pigmented.
         I.P.2.t. “Primer Sealer” means any coating labeled and formulated for
                  application prior to the application of a color coating for the purpose
                  of color uniformity or to promote the ability of the underlying coating
                  to resist penetration by the color coating.




                                                                                      58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           I.P.2.u.      “Single-stage Coating” means any pigmented coating
                  labeled and formulated for application without a subsequent clear
                  coat. Single-stage coatings include single-stage metallic/iridescent
                  coatings. Single-stage coating does not include primers and multi-
                  color coatings.

           I.P.2.v.       “Temporary Protective Coating” means any coating which is
                   labeled and formulated for the purpose of temporarily protecting
                   areas from overspray or mechanical damage.

           I.P.2.w.      “Truck Bedliner Coating” means any coating labeled and
                  formulated for application to a truck bed to protect it from surface
                  abrasion. Truck bedliner coating does not include clear, color, multi-
                  color, and single-stage coatings.
           I.P.2.x.       “Underbody Coating” means any coating labeled and
                   formulated for application to wheel wells, the inside of door panels
                   or fenders, the underside of a trunk or hood, or the underside of the
                   motor vehicle.

           I.P.2.y.      “Uniform Finish Coating” means any coating labeled and
                   formulated for application to the area around a spot repair for the
                   purpose of blending a repaired area’s color or clear coat to match
                   the appearance of an adjacent area’s existing coating.

    I.P.3. Beginning May 1, 2026, (i.e., after the effective date of a finding by EPA of
           a failure by Colorado to attain by the serious ozone attainment date or
           meet an applicable milestone under the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air
           Quality Standard), no person can

           I.P.3.a.      Manufacture for sale in Colorado any automotive coating
                  with a VOC content in excess of the VOC limit specified in Table 4.

           I.P.3.b.      Sell, supply, offer for sale, or distribute for sale in Colorado
                  any automotive coating that is manufactured on or after the date in
                  Section I.P.3. with a VOC content in excess of the VOC limit
                  specified in Table 4.

    I.P.4. Except as specified by the timing in Section I.P.4.b., the owner or operator
           of automotive coating facilities must

           I.P.4.a.       Use products that comply with the following VOC content
                  limits in Table 3 or reduce VOC emissions from motor vehicle
                  materials with an emission control system having a control
                  efficiency of 90% or greater.


                                                                                       59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.P.4.b.      Beginning May 1, 2026, (i.e., after the effective date of a
                finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the serious
                ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the
                2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard), use products
                manufactured on or after that effective date that comply with the
                following VOC content limits in Table 4 or reduce VOC emissions
                from automotive coatings with an emission control system having a
                control efficiency of 90% or greater.

         I.P.4.c.      Use solvents with a VOC content less than or equal to 25
                 grams per liter.

         I.P.4.d.     If more than one emission limitation applies to a specific
                material, then the most stringent emission limitation applies.

               Table 3 – Motor vehicle materials VOC content limits

               Coating Category          kg VOC/liter coating   lbs VOC/gal coating

               Motor vehicle cavity              0.65                    5.4
               wax

               Motor vehicle sealer              0.65                    5.4

               Motor vehicle                     0.65                    5.4
               deadener

               Motor vehicle                     0.20                    1.7
               gasket/gasket sealing
               material

               Motor vehicle                     0.65                    5.4
               underbody coating

               Motor vehicle trunk               0.65                    5.4
               interior coating

               Motor vehicle bedliner            0.20                    1.7

               Motor vehicle                     0.70                    5.8
               lubricating
               wax/compound




                                                                                   60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission



                 Table 4 – Automotive coatings VOC content limits

                 Coating Category           grams/liter          lbs/gallon (minus
                                                                 water and exempt
                                                                 compounds)

                 Adhesion promoter                     540                4.5

                 Clear coating                         250                2.1

                 Color coating                         420                3.5

                 Multi-color coating                   680                5.7

                 Pretreatment coating                  660                5.5

                 Primer                                250                2.1

                 Single-stage coating                  340                2.8

                 Temporary protective                  60                 0.5
                 coating

                 Truck bedliner coating                310                2.6

                 Underbody coating                     430                3.6

                 Uniform finish coating                540                4.5

                 Any other coating type                250                2.1



    I.P.5. Application methods. Unless the owner or operator of the automotive
           coating facility is reducing VOC emissions by complying with Section
           I.P.4.a. and except for the application of underbody coatings, truck
           bedliner coatings, and coatings of less than one fluid ounce, the owner or
           operator must use one or more of the following coating application
           methods

          I.P.5.a.        Electrostatic application.

          I.P.5.b.        High volume low pressure (HVLP) spray.
          I.P.5.c.        Flow coat.

          I.P.5.d.        Roller coat.



                                                                                     61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.P.5.e.       Dip coat, including electrodeposition.

          I.P.5.f. Airless spray,

          I.P.5.g.       Air-assisted airless spray.

          I.P.5.h.      Other coating application method capable of achieving a
                 transfer efficiency equivalent to or better than that achieved by
                 HVLP spraying, as approved by EPA.

    I.P.6. Work practices. Owners or operators of automotive coating facilities must

          I.P.6.a.     Store all VOC containing coatings, thinners, coating-related
                 waste materials, cleaning materials, and used shop towels in
                 closed containers.

          I.P.6.b.      Keep mixing and storage containers used for VOC
                 containing coatings, thinners, coating-related waste materials,
                 cleaning materials, and used shop towels closed at all times except
                 when depositing or removing materials.
          I.P.6.c.       Minimize spills of VOC containing coatings, thinners,
                  coating-related waste materials cleaning materials, and used shop
                  towels.

          I.P.6.d.     Convey VOC containing coatings, thinners, coating related
                 waste materials, cleaning materials, and used shop towels in
                 closed containers.

          I.P.6.e.      Minimize VOC emissions from cleaning of application,
                 storage, mixing, and conveying equipment by cleaning equipment
                 without atomizing the cleaning solvent and capturing spent solvent
                 in closed containers.
    I.P.7. Recordkeeping.

          I.P.7.a.       Except as specified by the timing in Section I.P.7.a.(vi).,
                 owners or operators of automotive coating facilities must maintain
                 the following records for five (5) years and make them available to
                 the Division upon request.

                 I.P.7.a.(i)   Records of the calendar year VOC emission
                        estimates demonstrating whether the coating operation
                        meets or exceeds the applicability threshold in Section
                        I.P.1.a.




                                                                                     62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.P.7.a.(ii) If applicable, monthly records such as safety data
                        sheets or other analytical data from the product
                        manufacturer showing the VOC type and VOC content and
                        demonstrating compliance with the VOC content limits in
                        Table 3.

                 I.P.7.a.(iii) If applicable, records demonstrating that a listed
                        exemption to this Section I.P. applies.

                 I.P.7.a.(iv) If applicable, monthly records sufficient to
                        demonstrate compliance with the control requirement in
                        Section I.P.4.a.

                 I.P.7.a.(v)    If applicable, records sufficient to demonstrate that a
                        coating application method used pursuant to Section I.P.5.h.
                        is capable of achieving a transfer efficiency equivalent to or
                        better than that achieved by HVLP spraying.
                 I.P.7.a.(vi) Beginning May 1, 2026, (i.e., after the effective date
                        of a finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the
                        serious ozone attainment date or meet an applicable
                        milestone under the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air
                        Quality Standard), maintain records such as safety data
                        sheets or other analytical data from the product
                        manufacturer showing the VOC type and VOC content and
                        demonstrating compliance with the VOC content limits in
                        Table 4.

          I.P.7.b.      Beginning May 1, 2026, (i.e., after the effective date of a
                 finding by EPA of a failure by Colorado to attain by the serious
                 ozone attainment date or meet an applicable milestone under the
                 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard), manufacturers,
                 sellers, and distributors must maintain the following records for five
                 (5) years and make them available to the Division upon request.

                 I.P.7.b.(i)  Records demonstrating that the automotive coating
                        meets the applicable VOC content limit specified in Table 4.

                 I.P.7.b.(ii)   Records demonstrating that the automotive coating
                        label includes the applicable use category(ies) and the VOC
                        content as supplied.

    I.P.8. Reporting.




                                                                                     63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.P.8.a.      By April 30 2026, and each year thereafter, the owner or
                     operator of an automotive coating facility where the total actual
                     VOC emissions from all automotive coating operations, including
                     related cleaning activities, at that facility are equal to or greater than
                     2.7 tons per 12-month rolling period must submit a single annual
                     report using the Division- approved format that includes a
                     demonstration, such as safety data sheets or other analytical data
                     from the coating manufacturer, that products used during the
                     calendar year (e.g., calendar year 2026 for the April 30, 2027,
                     report) comply with the VOC content limits (VOC per volume solid)
                     in Table 3.

              I.P.8.b.       Beginning in 2025, the owner or operator of an automotive
                     coating facility where the total actual VOC emissions from all
                     automotive coating operations, including related cleaning activities,
                     at that facility are equal to or greater than 25 tons per year must
                     submit with the semi-annual report required by the facility’s
                     operating permit documentation that the products used during the
                     previous semi-annual reporting period comply with the VOC content
                     limits (VOC per volume solid) in Table 3.

I.Q.   Aerospace Vehicles or Components

       I.Q.1. Applicability

              I.Q.1.a.      Beginning January 1, 2027, this section applies to facilities
                     that manufacture or rework commercial, civil, or military aerospace
                     vehicles or components (aerospace operations) located in the 8-
                     hour Ozone Control Area where the total actual VOC at the
                     aerospace operation are equal to or greater than 25 tons per year.
              I.Q.1.b.      This section does not apply to the following activities where
                     cleaning and coating of aerospace components and vehicles may
                     take place.

                     I.Q.1.b.(i)   Research and development, quality control, laboratory
                            testing, and electronic parts and assemblies (except for
                            cleaning and coating of completed assemblies).

                     I.Q.1.b.(ii) The manufacturing or rework operations involving
                            space vehicles or rework operations performed on antique
                            aerospace vehicles or components.

       I.Q.2. Definitions



                                                                                            64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.a.       “Ablative coating” means a coating that chars when exposed
                to open flame or extreme temperatures, as would occur during the
                failure of an engine casing or during aerodynamic heating. The
                ablative char surface serves as an insulative barrier, protecting
                adjacent components from the heat or open flame.

         I.Q.2.b.     “Adhesion promoter” means a very thin coating applied to a
                substrate to promote wetting and form a chemical bond with the
                subsequently applied material.

         I.Q.2.c.       “Adhesive bonding primer” means a primer applied in a thin
                film to aerospace components for the purpose of corrosion
                inhibition and increased adhesive bond strength by attachment.
                There are two categories of adhesive bonding primers: primers with
                a design cure at 250°F or below and primers with a design cure
                above 250°F.

         I.Q.2.d.       “Aerosol coating” means a hand-held, pressurized,
                nonrefillable container that expels an adhesive or a coating in a
                finely divided spray when a valve on the container is depressed.

         I.Q.2.e.      “Aerospace vehicle or component” means any fabricated
                part, processed part, assembly of parts, or completed unit, with the
                exception of electronic components, of any aircraft including but not
                limited to airplanes, helicopters, missiles, rockets, and space
                vehicles.

         I.Q.2.f.      “Aircraft fluid systems” means those systems that handle
                 hydraulic fluids, fuel, cooling fluids, or oils.

         I.Q.2.g.     “Aircraft transparency” means the aircraft windshield,
                canopy, passenger windows, lenses, and other components that
                are constructed of transparent materials.

         I.Q.2.h.      “Antichafe coating” means a coating applied to areas of
                moving aerospace components that may rub during normal
                operations or installation.

         I.Q.2.i. “Antique aerospace vehicle or component” means an aircraft or
                  component thereof that was built at least 30 years ago. An antique
                  aerospace vehicle would not routinely be in commercial or military
                  service in the capacity for which it was designed.

         I.Q.2.j. “Aqueous cleaning solvent” means a solvent in which water is at
                  least 80 percent of the solvent as applied.


                                                                                    65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.k.      “Bearing coating” means a coating applied to an antifriction
                bearing, a bearing housing, or the area adjacent to such a bearing
                in order to facilitate bearing function or to protect base material
                from excessive wear. A material is not a bearing coating if it can
                also be classified as a dry lubricative material or a solid film
                lubricant.

         I.Q.2.l. “Bonding maskant” means a temporary coating used to protect
                  selected areas of aerospace parts from strong acid or alkaline
                  solutions during processing for bonding.

         I.Q.2.m.      “Caulking and smoothing compounds” means semi-solid
                materials that are applied by hand application methods and are
                used to aerodynamically smooth exterior vehicle surfaces or fill
                cavities such as bolt hole accesses. A material is not a caulking
                and smoothing compound if it can also be classified as a sealant.

         I.Q.2.n.      “Chemical agent-resistant coating (CARC)” means an
                exterior topcoat designed to withstand exposure to chemical
                warfare agents or the decontaminants used on these agents.

         I.Q.2.o.       “Chemical milling maskant” means a coating that is applied
                directly to aluminum components to protect surface areas when
                chemical milling the component with a Type I or II etchant. Type I
                chemical milling maskants are used with a Type I etchant and Type
                II chemical milling maskants are used with a Type II etchant. This
                definition does not include bonding maskants, critical use and line
                sealer maskants, and seal coat maskants. Additionally, maskants
                that must be used with a combination of Type I or II etchants and
                any of the above types of maskants (i.e., bonding, critical use and
                line sealer, and seal coat) are not included. Maskants that are
                defined as specialty coatings are not included under this definition.

         I.Q.2.p.      “Cleaning operation” means collectively spray-gun, hand-
                wipe, and flush cleaning operations.

         I.Q.2.q.      “Cleaning solvent” means a liquid material used for hand-
                wipe, spray gun, or flush cleaning. This definition does not include
                solutions that contain no VOC.




                                                                                    66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.r.       “Clear coating” means a transparent coating usually applied
                 over a colored opaque coating, metallic substrate, or placard to
                 give improved gloss and protection to the color coat. In some
                 cases, a clearcoat refers to any transparent coating without regard
                 to substrate.

         I.Q.2.s.      “Closed-cycle depainting system” means a dust free,
                automated process that removes permanent coating in small
                sections at a time and maintains a continuous vacuum around the
                area(s) being depainted to capture emissions.

         I.Q.2.t.       “Coating” means a material that is applied to the surface of
                 an aerospace vehicle or component to form a decorative,
                 protective, or functional solid film, or the solid film itself.
         I.Q.2.u.      “Coating operation” means using a spray booth, tank, or
                other enclosure or any area, such as a hangar, for applying a single
                type of coating (e.g., primer). Using the same spray booth for
                applying another type of coating (e.g., topcoat) constitutes a
                separate coating operation for which compliance determinations
                are performed separately.

         I.Q.2.v.      “Coating unit” means a series of one or more coating
                applicators and any associated drying area and/or oven wherein a
                coating is applied, dried, and/or cured. A coating unit ends at the
                point where the coating is dried or cured, or prior to any subsequent
                application of a different coating. It is not necessary to have an
                oven or flashoff area to be included in this definition.

         I.Q.2.w.      “Commercial exterior aerodynamic structure primer” means
                a primer used on aerodynamic components and structures that
                protrude from the fuselage, such as wings and attached
                components, control surfaces, horizontal stabilizers, vertical fins,
                wing-to-body fairings, antennae, and landing gear and doors, for
                the purpose of extended corrosion protection and enhanced
                adhesion.

         I.Q.2.x.     “Commercial interior adhesive” means materials used in the
                bonding of passenger cabin interior components. These
                components must meet the FAA fireworthiness requirements.




                                                                                   67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.y.      “Compatible substrate primer” means either compatible
                epoxy primer or adhesive primer. Compatible epoxy primer is
                primer that is compatible with the filled elastomeric coating and is
                epoxy based. The compatible substrate primer is an
                epoxypolyamide primer used to promote adhesion of elastomeric
                coatings such as impact-resistant coatings. Adhesive primer is a
                coating that: (1) inhibits corrosion and serves as a primer applied to
                bare metal surfaces or prior to adhesive application; or (2) is
                applied to surfaces that can be expected to contain fuel. Fuel tank
                coatings are excluded from this category.

         I.Q.2.z.      “Confined space” means a space that is large enough and
                so configured that an employee can bodily enter and perform
                assigned work; has limited or restricted means for entry or exit (for
                example, fuel tanks, fuel vessels, and other spaces that have
                limited means of entry); and is not suitable for continuous employee
                occupancy.
         I.Q.2.aa.    “Corrosion prevention system” means a coating system that
                provides corrosion protection by displacing water and penetrating
                mating surfaces, forming a protective barrier between the metal
                surface and moisture. Coatings containing oils or waxes are
                excluded from this category.

         I.Q.2.bb.     “Critical use and line sealer maskant” means a temporary
                coating, not covered under other maskant categories, used to
                protect selected areas of aerospace parts from strong acid or
                alkaline solutions such as those used in anodizing, plating,
                chemical milling and processing of magnesium, titanium, or high-
                strength steel, high-precision aluminum chemical milling of deep
                cuts, and aluminum chemical milling of complex shapes. Materials
                used for repairs or to bridge gaps left by scribing operations (i.e.,
                line sealer) are also included in this category.

         I.Q.2.cc.     “Cryogenic flexible primer” means a primer designed to
                provide corrosion resistance, flexibility, and adhesion of subsequent
                coating systems when exposed to loads up to and surpassing the
                yield point of the substrate at cryogenic temperatures (-275°F and
                below).




                                                                                    68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.dd.     “Cryoprotective coating” means a coating that insulates
                cryogenic or subcooled surfaces to limit propellant boil-off, maintain
                structural integrity of metallic structures during ascent or re-entry,
                and prevent ice formation.
         I.Q.2.ee.   “Cyanoacrylate adhesive” means a fast-setting, single
                component adhesive that cures at room temperature.

         I.Q.2.ff.      “Dry lubricative material” means a coating consisting of lauric
                 acid, cetyl alcohol, waxes, or other noncross linked or resin-bound
                 materials that act as a dry lubricant.

         I.Q.2.gg.      “Electric or radiation-effect coating” means a coating or
                coating system engineered to interact, through absorption or
                reflection, with specific regions of the electromagnetic energy
                spectrum, such as the ultraviolet, visible, infrared, or microwave
                regions. Uses include, but are not limited to, lightning strike
                protection, electromagnetic pulse (EMP) protection, and radar
                avoidance. Coatings that have been designated as “classified” by
                the Department of Defense are exempt.

         I.Q.2.hh.      “Electrostatic discharge and electromagnetic interference
                (EMI) coating” means a coating applied to space vehicles, missiles,
                aircraft radomes, and helicopter blades to disperse static energy or
                reduce electromagnetic interference.
         I.Q.2.ii.     “Elevated-temperature Skydrol-resistant commercial primer”
                 means a primer applied primarily to commercial aircraft (or
                 commercial aircraft adapted for military use) that must withstand
                 immersion in phosphate-ester (PE) hydraulic fluid (Skydrol 500b or
                 equivalent) at the elevated temperature of 150°F for 1,000 hours.

         I.Q.2.jj.     “Epoxy polyamide topcoat” means a coating used where
                 harder films are required or in some areas where engraving is
                 accomplished in camouflage colors.
         I.Q.2.kk.     “Exempt solvent” means a specified organic compound that
                has been determined by the EPA to have negligible photochemical
                reactivity and is listed in 40 CFR 51.100 (Nov. 7, 1986).




                                                                                     69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.ll.       “Fire-resistant (interior) coating” means for civilian aircraft,
                 fire-resistant interior coatings are used on passenger cabin interior
                 parts that are subject to the FAA fireworthiness requirements. For
                 military aircraft, fire-resistant interior coatings are used on parts that
                 are subject to the flammability requirements of MIL-STD-1630A and
                 MIL-A-87721. For space applications, these coatings are used on
                 parts that are subject to the flammability requirements of SE-R-
                 0006 and SSP 30233.

         I.Q.2.mm.      “Flexible primer” means a primer that meets flexibility
                requirements such as those needed for adhesive bond primed
                fastener heads or on surfaces expected to contain fuel. The flexible
                coating is required because it provides a compatible, flexible
                substrate over bonded sheet rubber and rubber-type coatings as
                well as a flexible bridge between the fasteners, skin, and skin-to-
                skin joints on outer aircraft skins. This flexible bridge allows more
                topcoat flexibility around fasteners and decreases the chance of the
                topcoat cracking around the fasteners. The result is better corrosion
                resistance.

         I.Q.2.nn.       “Flight test coating” means a coating applied to aircraft other
                than missiles or single-use aircraft prior to flight testing to protect
                the aircraft from corrosion and to provide required marking during
                flight test evaluation.

         I.Q.2.oo.      “Flush cleaning” means removal of contaminants such as
                dirt, grease, oil, and coatings from an aerospace vehicle or
                component or coating equipment by passing solvent over, into, or
                through the item being cleaned. The solvent may simply be poured
                into the item being cleaned and then drained, or assisted by air or
                hydraulic pressure, or by pumping. Hand-wipe cleaning operations
                where wiping, scrubbing, mopping, or other hand action are used
                are not included.

         I.Q.2.pp.     “Fuel tank adhesive” means an adhesive used to bond
                components exposed to fuel and must be compatible with fuel tank
                coatings.

         I.Q.2.qq.      “Fuel tank coating” means a coating applied to fuel tank
                components for the purpose of corrosion and/or bacterial growth
                inhibition and to assure sealant adhesion in extreme environmental
                conditions.



                                                                                        70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.rr.       “Grams of VOC per liter of coating (less water and less
                 exempt solvent)” means the weight of VOC per combined volume
                 of total volatiles and coating solids, less water and exempt
                 compounds, and can be calculated by the following equation:
               Grams of VOC per liter of coating (less water and less exempt
               solvent) = (Ws – Ww – Wes) / (Vs – Vw – Ves)

               Where:
               Ws = weight of total volatiles in grams

               Ww = weight of water in grams

               Wes = weight of exempt compounds in grams

               Vs = volume of coating in liters

               Vw = volume of water in liters

               Ves = volume of exempt compounds in liters

         I.Q.2.ss.    “Hand-wipe cleaning operation” means removing
                contaminants such as dirt, grease, oil, and coatings from an
                aerospace vehicle or component by physically rubbing it with a
                material such as a rag, paper, or cotton swab that has been
                moistened with a cleaning solvent.

         I.Q.2.tt.      “High temperature coating” means a coating designed to
                 withstand temperatures of more than 350°F.

         I.Q.2.uu.    “High volume low pressure (HVLP) spray equipment” means
                spray equipment that is used to apply coating by means of a spray
                gun that operates at 10.0 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) of
                atomizing air pressure or less at the air cap.

         I.Q.2.vv.     “Insulation covering” means material that is applied to foam
                insulation to protect the insulation from mechanical or
                environmental damage.

         I.Q.2.ww.     “Intermediate release coating” means a thin coating applied
                beneath topcoats to assist in removing the topcoat in depainting
                operations and generally to allow the use of less hazardous
                depainting methods.




                                                                                  71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.xx.     “Lacquer” means a clear or pigmented coating formulated
                with a nitrocellulose or synthetic resin to dry by evaporation without
                a chemical reaction. Lacquers are resoluble in their original solvent.

         I.Q.2.yy.     “Leak” means any visible leakage, including misting and
                clouding.

         I.Q.2.zz.     “Limited access space” means internal surfaces or passages
                of an aerospace vehicle or component that cannot be reached
                without the aid of an airbrush or a spray gun extension for the
                application of coatings.

         I.Q.2.aaa.     “Metalized epoxy coating” means a coating that contains
                relatively large quantities of metallic pigmentation for appearance
                and/or added protection.

         I.Q.2.bbb.   “Mold release” means a coating applied to a mold surface to
                prevent the molded piece from sticking to the mold as it is removed.

         I.Q.2.ccc.    “Nonstructural adhesive” means an adhesive that bonds
                nonload bearing aerospace components in noncritical applications
                and is not covered in any other specialty adhesive categories.

         I.Q.2.ddd.      “Operating parameter value” means a minimum or maximum
                value established for a control equipment or process parameter
                that, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other
                operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator
                has continued to comply with an applicable emission limitation.

         I.Q.2.eee.    “Optical antireflection coating” means a coating with a low
                reflectance in the infrared and visible wavelength ranges that is
                used for antireflection on or near optical and laser hardware.

         I.Q.2.fff.      “Part marking coating” means coatings or inks used to make
                 identifying markings on materials, components, and/or assemblies.
                 These markings may be either permanent or temporary.

         I.Q.2.ggg.    “Pretreatment coating” means an organic coating that
                contains at least 0.5 percent acids by weight and is applied directly
                to metal or composite surfaces to provide surface etching,
                corrosion resistance, adhesion, and ease of stripping.




                                                                                      72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.hhh.     “Primer” means the first layer and any subsequent layers of
                identically formulated coating applied to the surface of an
                aerospace vehicle or component. Primers are typically used for
                corrosion prevention, protection from the environment, functional
                fluid resistance, and adhesion of subsequent coatings. Primers that
                are defined as specialty coatings are not included under this
                definition.

         I.Q.2.iii.     “Radome” means the nonmetallic protective housing for
                 electromagnetic transmitters and receivers (e.g., radar, electronic
                 countermeasures, etc.).

         I.Q.2.jjj.      “Rain erosion-resistant coating” means a coating or coating
                 system used to protect the leading edges of parts such as flaps,
                 stabilizers, radomes, engine inlet nacelles, etc. against erosion
                 caused by rain impact during flight.

         I.Q.2.kkk.     “Research and development” means an operation whose
                primary purpose is for research and development of new processes
                and products and that is conducted under the close supervision of
                technically trained personnel and is not involved in the manufacture
                of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in
                a de minimis manner.

         I.Q.2.lll.     “Rocket motor bonding adhesive” means an adhesive used
                 in rocket motor bonding applications.

         I.Q.2.mmm. “Rocket motor nozzle coating” means a catalyzed epoxy
                coating system used in elevated temperature applications on rocket
                motor nozzles.

         I.Q.2.nnn.   “Rubber-based adhesive” means a quick setting contact
                cement that provide a strong, yet flexible bond between two mating
                surfaces that may be of dissimilar materials.

         I.Q.2.ooo.    “Scale inhibitor” means a coating that is applied to the
                surface of a part prior to thermal processing to inhibit the formation
                of scale.
         I.Q.2.ppp.   “Screen print ink” means an ink used in screen printing
                processes during fabrication of decorative laminates and decals.




                                                                                       73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.qqq.    “Sealant” means a material used to prevent the intrusion of
                water, fuel, air, or other liquids or solids from certain areas of
                aerospace vehicles or components. There are two categories of
                sealants: (1) extrudable/rollable/brushable sealants; and (2)
                sprayable sealants.

         I.Q.2.rrr.    “Seal coat maskant” means an overcoat applied over a
                 maskant to improve abrasion and chemical resistance during
                 production operations.

         I.Q.2.sss.     “Self-priming topcoat” means a topcoat that is applied
                directly to an uncoated aerospace vehicle or component for
                purposes of corrosion prevention, environmental protection, and
                functional fluid resistance. More than one layer of identical coating
                formulation may be applied to the vehicle or component.

         I.Q.2.ttt.     “Semiaqueous cleaning solvent” means a solution in which
                 water is a primary ingredient (> 60 percent of the solvent solution
                 as applied must be water).

         I.Q.2.uuu.     “Silicone insulation material” means an insulating material
                applied to exterior metal surfaces for protection from high
                temperatures caused by atmospheric friction or engine exhaust.
                These materials differ from ablative coatings in that they are not
                “sacrificial.”
         I.Q.2.vvv.    “Solids” means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that
                after drying makes up the dry film.

         I.Q.2.www. “Solid film lubricant” means a very thin coating consisting of
                a binder system containing as its chief pigment material one or
                more of the following: molybdenum, graphite,
                polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), or other solids that act as a dry
                lubricant between faying (i.e., closely or tightly fitting) surfaces.

         I.Q.2.xxx.    “Space vehicle” means a man-made device, either manned
                or unmanned, designed for operation beyond earth's atmosphere.
                This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-
                ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test
                coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with test,
                transport, and storage that through contamination can compromise
                the space vehicle performance.




                                                                                      74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.yyy.     “Specialty coating” means a coating that, even though it
                meets the definition of a primer, topcoat, or self-priming topcoat,
                has additional performance criteria beyond those of primers,
                topcoats, and self-priming topcoats for specific applications. These
                performance criteria may include, but are not limited to,
                temperature or fire resistance, substrate compatibility,
                antireflection, temporary protection or marking, sealing, adhesively
                joining substrates, or enhanced corrosion protection.

         I.Q.2.zzz.    “Specialized function coating” means a coating that fulfills
                extremely specific engineering requirements that are limited in
                application and are characterized by low volume usage. This
                category excludes coatings covered in other specialty coating
                categories.

         I.Q.2.aaaa. “Spray gun” means a device that atomizes a coating or other
                material and projects the particulates or other material onto a
                substrate.

         I.Q.2.bbbb. “Structural autoclavable adhesive” means an adhesive used
                to bond load-carrying aerospace components that is cured by heat
                and pressure in an autoclave.
         I.Q.2.cccc. “Structural nonautoclavable adhesive” means an adhesive
                cured under ambient conditions that is used to bond load-carrying
                aerospace components or other critical functions, such as
                nonstructural bonding in the proximity of engines.

         I.Q.2.dddd. “Surface preparation” means the removal of contaminants
                from the surface of an aerospace vehicle or component or the
                activation or reactivation of the surface in preparation for the
                application of a coating.

         I.Q.2.eeee. “Temporary protective coating” means a coating applied to
                provide scratch or corrosion protection during manufacturing,
                storage, or transportation. Two types include: (1) peelable
                protective coatings; and (2) alkaline removable coatings. These
                materials are not intended to protect against strong acid or alkaline
                solutions. Coatings that provide this type of protection from
                chemical processing are not included in this category.
         I.Q.2.ffff.    “Thermal control coating” means a coating formulated with
                 specific thermal conductive or radiative properties to permit
                 temperature control of the substrate.


                                                                                      75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         I.Q.2.gggg. “Topcoat” means a coating that is applied over a primer on
                an aerospace vehicle or component for appearance, identification,
                camouflage, or protection. Topcoats that are defined as specialty
                coatings are not included under this definition.
         I.Q.2.hhhh. “Touch-up and repair coating” means a coating used to
                cover minor coating imperfections appearing after the main coating
                operation.

         I.Q.2.iiii.    “Touch-up and repair operation” means that portion of the
                 coating operation that is the incidental application of coating used
                 to cover minor imperfections in the coating finish or to achieve
                 complete coverage. This definition includes out-of-sequence or out-
                 of-cycle coating.
         I.Q.2.jjjj.     “VOC composite vapor pressure” means the sum of the
                 partial pressures of the compounds defined as VOCs, and is
                 determined by the following calculation.




               Wi = weight of the “i”th VOC compound, grams
               Ww = weight of water, grams

               We = weight of nonwatery, non-VOC compound, grams

               MWi = molecular weight of the “i”th VOC compound, g/g-mole

               MWw = molecular weight of water, g/g-mole

               Mwe = molecular weight of exempt compound, g/g-mole

               PPc = VOC composite partial pressure at 20°C, mm Hg

               VPi = vapor pressure of the “i”th VOC compound at 20°C, mm

               Hg




                                                                                  76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.Q.2.kkkk. “Waterborne (water-reducible) coating” means a coating
                 which contains more than 5 percent water by weight as applied in
                 its volatile fraction.

          I.Q.2.llll.     “Wet fastener installation coating” means a primer or sealant
                  applied by dipping, brushing, or daubing to fasteners that are
                  installed before the coating is cured.

          I.Q.2.mmmm.            “Wing coating” means a corrosion-resistant topcoat
                 that is resilient enough to withstand the flexing of the wings.

    I.Q.3. The owner or operator of an aerospace operation must
          I.Q.3.a.      Apply specialty coatings to aerospace vehicles or
                 components that comply with the VOC limits in Table 5 as applied,
                 or reduce VOC emissions from aerospace specialty coatings with
                 an emission control system having a control efficiency of 90% or
                 greater.

                 I.Q.3.a.(i)  The following coating applications are exempt from
                        the VOC content limits in Table 5.

                        I.Q.3.a.(i)(A) Touchup, aerosol, and Department of Defense
                               (DOD) classified coatings.

                        I.Q.3.a.(i)(B) Coating of space vehicles.

                        I.Q.3.a.(i)(C) Aerospace operations that use separate
                               formulations in volumes of less than 50 gallons per
                               year, subject to a maximum exemption of 200 gallons
                               total for such formulations applied annually.

                        I.Q.3.a.(i)(D) Primers, topcoats, and chemical milling
                               maskants that are used by and regulated for major
                               aerospace operations under 40 C.F.R. Section
                               63.749(a) (Aug. 3, 2016).




                                                                                      77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              I.Q.3.a.(ii)  If more than one emission limitation applies to a
                     specific material, then the most stringent emission limitation
                     applies.

              Table 5 – Aerospace specialty coatings VOC content limits

              Coating Type                                Grams VOC per liter
                                                          of coating (g/L), less
                                                          water and less
                                                          exempt solvent

              Ablative coating                                      600

              Adhesion promoter                                     890

              Adhesive bonding primer – cured at                    850
              250°F or below

              Adhesive bonding primer – cured above                1030
              250°F

              Adhesive – commercial interior adhesive               760

              Adhesive – cyanoacrylate adhesive                    1020

              Adhesive – fuel tank adhesive                         620

              Adhesive – nonstructural adhesive                     360

              Adhesive – rocket motor bonding                       890
              adhesive

              Adhesive – rubber-based adhesive                      850

              Adhesive – structural autoclavable                     60
              adhesive

              Adhesive – structural nonautoclavable                 850
              adhesive

              Antichafe coating                                     660

              Bearing coating                                       620

              Caulking and smoothing compounds                      850

              Chemical agent-resistant coating                      550




                                                                                   78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              Table 5 – Aerospace specialty coatings VOC content limits

              Coating Type                               Grams VOC per liter
                                                         of coating (g/L), less
                                                         water and less
                                                         exempt solvent

              Clear coating                                        720

              Commercial exterior aerodynamic                      650
              structure primer

              Compatible substrate primer                          780

              Corrosion prevention compound                        710

              Cryogenic flexible primer                            645

              Cryoprotective coating                               600

              Dry lubricative material                             880

              Electric or radiation-effect coating                 800

              Electrostatic discharge and                          800
              electromagnetic interference (EMI)
              coating

              Elevated-temperature skydrol-resistant               740
              commercial primer

              Epoxy polyamide topcoat                              660

              Fire-resistant (interior) coating                    800

              Flexible primer                                      640

              Flight test coatings – missile or single             420
              use aircraft

              Flight-test coatings – all other                     840

              Fuel-tank coating                                    720

              High-temperature coating                             850

              Insulation covering                                  740

              Intermediate release coating                         750



                                                                                  79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              Table 5 – Aerospace specialty coatings VOC content limits

              Coating Type                               Grams VOC per liter
                                                         of coating (g/L), less
                                                         water and less
                                                         exempt solvent

              Lacquer                                              830

              Maskants – bonding maskant                          1230

              Maskants – critical use and line sealer             1020
              maskant

              Maskants – seal coat maskant                        1230

              Metallized epoxy coating                             740

              Mold release                                         780

              Optical anti-reflective coating                      750

              Park marking coating                                 850

              Pretreatment coating                                 780

              Rain erosion-resistant coating                       850

              Rocket motor nozzle coating                          660

              Scale inhibitor                                      880

              Screen print ink                                     840

              Sealants – extrudable/rollable/brushable             280
              sealant

              Sealants – sprayable sealant                         600

              Silicone insulation material                         850

              Solid film lubricant                                 880

              Specialized function coating                         890

              Temporary protective coating                         320

              Thermal control coating                              800

              Wet fastener installation coating                    675



                                                                                  80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                Table 5 – Aerospace specialty coatings VOC content limits

                Coating Type                                Grams VOC per liter
                                                            of coating (g/L), less
                                                            water and less
                                                            exempt solvent

                Wing coating                                          850



         I.Q.3.b.     Comply with the following solvent cleaning requirements.

                I.Q.3.b.(i)   Use cleaning solvents in hand-wipe cleaning
                       operations that

                      I.Q.3.b.(i)(A) Meet the definition of aqueous cleaning solvent
                             or

                      I.Q.3.b.(ii)(B) Have a VOC composite vapor pressure less
                             than or equal to 45 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) at
                             20°C.

                I.Q.3.b.(ii)  Empty cleaning solvents used in the flush cleaning of
                       parts, assemblies, and coating unit components into an
                       enclosed container or collection system that is kept closed
                       when not in use. This requirement does not apply to
                       aqueous cleaning solvents.

                I.Q.3.b.(iii) Clean spray guns using one or more of the following
                       methods.

                      I.Q.3.b.(iii)(A) Enclosed spray gun cleaning system.

                               I.Q.3.b.(iii)(A)(1) The enclosed spray gun cleaning
                                      system must be kept closed when not in use.

                               I.Q.3.b.(iii)(A)(2) The enclosed spray gun cleaner
                                      must be visually inspected for leaks at least
                                      once per month while in operation.




                                                                                     81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                          I.Q.3.b.(iii)(A)(3)   Leaks must be repaired within 14
                                 days from when the leak is first discovered. If
                                 the leak is not repaired by the 15th day after
                                 detection, the solvent must be removed, and
                                 the enclosed cleaner must be shut down until
                                 the leak is repaired or its use is permanently
                                 discontinued.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iii)(B) Unatomized discharge of solvent into a waste
                          container that is kept closed when not in use.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iii)(C)     Disassembly of the spray gun and
                          cleaning in a vat that is kept closed when not in use.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iii)(D)       Atomized spray into a waste container
                          that is fitted with a device designed to capture
                          atomized solvent emissions.
                   I.Q.3.b.(iv) The following solvent cleaning operations are
                          exempt from Section I.Q.3.b.(i).
                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(A)     Cleaning during the manufacture,
                          assembly, installation, maintenance, or testing of
                          components of breathing oxygen systems that are
                          exposed to the breathing oxygen.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(B)       Cleaning during the manufacture,
                          assembly, installation, maintenance, or testing of
                          parts, subassemblies, or assemblies that are exposed
                          to strong oxidizers or reducers (e.g., nitrogen
                          tetroxide, liquid oxygen, hydrazine).

                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(C)    Cleaning and surface activation prior to
                          adhesive bonding.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(D)    Cleaning of electronics parts and
                          assemblies containing electronics parts.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(E)       Cleaning of aircraft and ground support
                          equipment fluid systems that are exposed to the fluid,
                          including air-to-air heat exchangers and hydraulic fluid
                          systems.

                   I.Q.3.b.(iv)(F) Cleaning of fuel cells, fuel tanks, and confined
                          spaces.



                                                                                 82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(G)      Surface cleaning of solar cells, coated
                                optics, and thermal control surfaces.

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(H)        Cleaning during fabrication, assembly,
                                installation, and maintenance of upholstery, curtains,
                                carpet, and other textile materials used on the interior
                                of the aircraft.

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(I) Cleaning of metallic and nonmetallic materials
                                used in honeycomb cores during the manufacture or
                                maintenance of these cores, and cleaning of the
                                completed cores used in the manufacture of
                                aerospace vehicles or components.

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(J) Cleaning of aircraft transparencies,
                                polycarbonate, or glass substrates.

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(K)      Cleaning and solvent usage associated
                                with research and development, quality control, or
                                laboratory testing.
                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(L) Cleaning operations, using nonflammable
                                liquids, conducted within 5 feet of energized electrical
                                systems. Energized electrical systems means any AC
                                or DC electrical circuit on an assembled aircraft once
                                electrical power is connected, including interior
                                passenger and cargo areas, wheel wells, and tail
                                sections.

                         I.Q.3.b.(iv)(M)     Cleaning operations identified as
                                essential uses under the Montreal Protocol for which
                                the Administrator has allocated essential use
                                allowances or exemptions in 40 C.F.R. § 82.4. (May
                                10, 1995).

    I.Q.4. Application methods.

          I.Q.4.a.      The aerospace operation owner or operator must use one or
                 more of the following coating application methods in applying any
                 primer or topcoat to aerospace vehicles or components.

                 I.Q.4.a.(i)     Brush coating.

                 I.Q.4.a.(ii)    Cotton-tipped swab application.

                 I.Q.4.a.(iii)   Electrodeposition coating.


                                                                                        83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 I.Q.4.a.(iv)    Electrostatic spray.

                 I.Q.4.a.(v)     High volume low pressure (HVLP) spray.

                 I.Q.4.a.(vi)    Flow/curtain coat.

                 I.Q.4.a.(vii)   Roll coating.
                 I.Q.4.a.(viii) Dip coat.

                 I.Q.4.a.(ix) Other coating application methods that achieve
                        emission reductions equivalent to HVLP or electrostatic
                        spray application methods.

          I.Q.4.b.     The following situations are exempt from the application
                 equipment requirements in Section I.Q.4.a.

                 I.Q.4.b.(i)   Any situation that normally requires the use of an
                        airbrush or an extension on the spray gun to properly reach
                        limited access spaces.

                 I.Q.4.b.(ii)    The application of specialty coatings.

                 I.Q.4.b.(iii) The application of coatings that contain fillers that
                        adversely affect atomization with HVLP spray guns and that
                        cannot be applied by any of the other application methods
                        specified in Section I.Q.4.a.

                 I.Q.4.b.(iv) The application of coatings that normally have a dried
                        film thickness of less than 0.0013 centimeter (0.0005 in.) and
                        cannot be applied by any of the other application methods
                        specified in Section I.Q.4.a.

                 I.Q.4.b.(v)    The use of airbrush application methods for stenciling,
                        lettering, and other identification markings.

                 I.Q.4.b.(vi)    The use of hand-held spray can application methods.

                 I.Q.4.b.(vii)   Touch-up and repair operations.
          I.Q.4.c.      As an alternative to the application equipment requirements
                 in Section I.Q.4.a., a major aerospace operation may comply with
                 applicable application techniques under 40 C.F.R. Section
                 63.749(a) (Aug. 3, 2016).

    I.Q.5. Work practices. Owners or operators of aerospace operations must




                                                                                    84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          I.Q.5.a.      Store all VOC containing coatings, coating-related waste
                 materials, cleaning materials, and cleaning-related waste materials
                 in closed containers.

          I.Q.5.b.      Keep mixing and storage containers used for VOC
                 containing coatings, coating-related waste materials, cleaning
                 materials, and cleaning-related waste materials closed at all times
                 except when depositing or removing materials.

          I.Q.5.c.     Minimize spills of VOC containing coatings, coating-related
                 waste materials cleaning materials, and cleaning-related waste
                 materials.

          I.Q.5.d.      Convey VOC containing coatings, coating related waste
                 materials, cleaning materials, and cleaning-related waste materials
                 in closed containers.

          I.Q.5.e.      Minimize VOC emissions from cleaning of application,
                 storage, mixing, and conveying equipment by cleaning equipment
                 without atomizing the cleaning solvent and capturing spent solvent
                 in closed containers.

    I.Q.6. Recordkeeping.

          I.Q.6.a.       Owners or operators of aerospace operations must maintain
                 the following records for five (5) years and make them available to
                 the Division upon request.

                I.Q.6.a.(i)   Records of the calendar year VOC emission
                       estimates demonstrating whether the aerospace operation
                       meets or exceeds the applicability threshold in Section
                       I.Q.1.a.

                I.Q.6.a.(ii) If applicable, records demonstrating that a listed
                       exemption to this Section I.Q. applies.

                I.Q.6.a.(iii) If applicable, monthly records such as safety data
                       sheets or other analytical data from the product
                       manufacturer showing the VOC type and VOC content and
                       demonstrating compliance with the VOC content limits in
                       Table 5 of coatings as applied.




                                                                                   85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                       I.Q.6.a.(iv) If applicable, monthly records such as safety data
                              sheets or other analytical data from the product
                              manufacturer demonstrating compliance with the cleaning
                              solvent requirements in Section I.Q.3.b.(i).
                       I.Q.6.a.(v)   If applicable, monthly records sufficient to
                              demonstrate compliance with the enclosed spray gun
                              cleaning system inspection requirements in I.Q.3.b.(iii)(A).

                       I.Q.6.a.(vi) If applicable, monthly records sufficient to
                              demonstrate compliance with the control requirement in
                              Section I.Q.3.a.

                       I.Q.6.a.(vii) If applicable, records sufficient to demonstrate that a
                              coating application method used pursuant to Section
                              I.Q.4.a.(ix) is capable of achieving a transfer efficiency
                              equivalent to or better than that achieved by HVLP spraying.
        I.Q.7. Reporting.

               I.Q.7.a.        Beginning in 2027, the aerospace operation owner or
                      operator must submit with the semi-annual report required by the
                      facility’s operating permit documentation that the products used
                      during the previous semi-annual reporting period comply with the
                      VOC content limits in Table 5 and in Section I.Q.3.b.(i).

II.     Solvent Use

II.A.   General Provisions

        II.A.1. Applicability

        The provisions of this section apply to cold cleaners, non-conveyorized vapor
        degreasers, conveyorized degreasers, industrial cleaning solvent operations, and
        other operations that use solvents. Open top vapor degreasers are a subset of
        non-conveyorized vapor degreasers. The owner or operator of a unit subject to
        this section shall ensure that no such unit is used unless the requirements of this
        section are satisfied. Section II.E. requirements are effective on January 1, 2017.
        Section II.F. requirements are effective on May 1, 2021.

        II.A.2. Definitions




                                                                                             86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         II.A.2.a.      "Cold-Cleaner” means a container of non-aqueous liquid
                 solvent held below its boiling point, which is designed, used, or
                 intended for cleaning solid objects in a batch-loaded process. A
                 "cold-cleaner" may have provisions for heating the solvent. It does
                 not include vapor degreasers or continuously loaded conveyorized
                 degreasers.

         II.A.2.b.       “Composite Partial Vapor Pressure” means the sum of the
                 partial pressures of the compounds defined as VOCs. Composite
                 partial vapor pressure is calculated as follows:




         Where:

         Wi       =   Weight of the “i”th VOC compound, in grams

         Ww       =   Weight of water, in grams

         We       =   Weight of exempt compound, in grams
         MWi      =   Molecular weight of the “i”th VOC compound, in g/g-mole

         MWw      =   Molecular weight of water, in g/g-mole

         MWc      =   Molecular weight of exempt compound, in g/g-mole

         PPc      =   VOC composite partial vapor pressure at 20°C (68°F), in
                      mm Hg

         VPi      =   Vapor pressure of the “i”th VOC compound at 20°C(68°F),
                      in mm Hg

         II.A.2.c.      "Conveyorized Degreaser" means an apparatus that
                 performs degreasing or other cleaning functions through the use of
                 non-aqueous liquid solvent and/or solvent vapors within a
                 container, and which has a conveyor mechanism allowing
                 continuous loading of items conveyed into and out of the solvent.




                                                                                   87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.A.2.d.       "Freeboard” in a vapor degreaser means the vertical
                  distance from the top of the vapor zone (as established by normal
                  operations within the specifications of the degreaser manufacturer)
                  to the top of the degreaser. For cold-cleaners "freeboard” means
                  the vertical distance from the surface of the solvent liquid to the top
                  of the degreaser. If all sides are not even, the vertical distance to
                  the top of the lowest side shall be used to make the determination
                  of freeboard.

          II.A.2.e.      "Freeboard Ratio” means the ratio of the freeboard to the
                  width of the solvent surface.

          II.A.2.f.     “Industrial Cleaning Solvent” means a VOC-containing liquid
                  used to perform industrial cleaning solvent operations.
          II.A.2.g.      “Industrial Cleaning Solvent Operation” means the use of an
                  industrial cleaning solvent for cleaning industrial operations such as
                  spray gun cleaning, spray booth cleaning, large manufactured parts
                  cleaning, equipment cleaning, floor cleaning, line cleaning, parts
                  cleaning, tank cleaning, and small manufactured parts cleaning.
                  Residential and janitorial cleaning are not considered industrial
                  cleaning solvent operations.
          II.A.2.h.      "Non-Conveyorized Vapor Degreaser” means an apparatus,
                  which uses non-aqueous solvent vapors within some type of
                  container to degrease or otherwise clean solid objects in a batch-
                  loaded process. It excludes continuously loaded conveyorized
                  degreasers.

          II.A.2.i.       “Residential and Janitorial Cleaning” means the cleaning of a
                   building or building components including, but not limited to, floors,
                   ceilings, wall, windows, doors, stairs, bathrooms, furnishings, and
                   exterior surfaces of office equipment, excluding the cleaning of
                   work areas where manufacturing or repair activity is performed.

          II.A.2.j.        "Solvent Metal Cleaning" means the process of cleaning
                   soils from metal surfaces by cold cleaning, conveyorized
                   degreasing, or non-conveyorized vapor degreasing.

    II.A.3. Transfer of waste solvent and used solvent




                                                                                       88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

        In any disposal or transfer of waste or used solvent, at least 80 percent by weight
        of the solvent/waste liquid shall be retained (i.e., no more than 20 percent of the
        liquid solvent/solute mixture shall evaporate or otherwise be lost during
        transfers).
        II.A.4. Storage of waste solvent and used solvent

        Waste or used solvent shall be stored in closed containers unless otherwise
        required by law.
        II.A.5. Any control device shall meet the applicable requirements of Sections
                I.A.3.a., b., c., e., and I.A.8.a. and b.
II.B.   Control of Solvent Cold-Cleaners

        II.B.1. Control Equipment

              II.B.1.a.      Covers

                     II.B.1.a.(i)   All cold-cleaners shall have a properly fitting cover.

                     II.B.1.a.(ii) Covers shall be designed to be easily operable with
                             one hand under any of the following conditions:

                             II.B.1.a.(ii)(A) Solvent true vapor pressure is greater than 15
                                     torr (0.3 psia) at 38°C (100°F).

                             II.B.1.a.(ii)(B) The solvent is agitated by an agitating
                                     mechanism.

                             II.B.1.a.(ii)(C) The solvent is heated.

              II.B.1.b.      Drainage Facility

                     II.B.1.b.(i)  All cold-cleaners shall have a drainage facility that
                             captures the drained liquid solvent from the cleaned parts.

                     II.B.1.b.(ii) For cold-cleaners using solvent which has a vapor
                             pressure greater than 32 torr (0.62 psia) measured at 38°C
                             (100°F) either:

                             II.B.1.b.(ii)(A) There shall be an internal drainage facility
                                     within the confines of the cold-cleaner, so that parts
                                     are enclosed under the (closed) cover to drain after
                                     cleaning, or if such a facility will not fit within;




                                                                                              89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                             II.B.1.b.(ii)(B) An enclosed, external drainage facility that
                                     captures the drained solvent liquid from the cleaned
                                     parts.

              II.B.1.c.      A permanent, clearly visible sign shall be mounted on or next
                      to the cold-cleaner. The sign shall list the operating requirements.

              II.B.1.d.     Solvent spray apparatus shall not have a splashing, fine
                      atomizing, or shower type action but rather should produce a solid,
                      cohesive stream. Solvent spray shall be used at a pressure that
                      does not cause excessive splashing.

              For solvents with a true vapor pressure above 32 torr (0.62 psia) at 38°C
              (100°F), or, for solvents heated above 50°C (120°F), one of the following
              techniques shall be used:

                     II.B.1.d.(i)   A freeboard ratio greater than or equal to 0.7.

                     II.B.1.d.(ii) A water or a non-volatile liquid cover. The cover liquid
                             shall not be soluble in the solvent and shall not be denser
                             than the solvent and the depth of the cover liquid shall be
                             sufficient to prevent the escape of solvent vapors.

        II.B.2. Operating requirements

              II.B.2.a.      The cold-cleaner cover shall be closed whenever parts are
                      not being handled within the cleaner confines.

              II.B.2.b.      Cleaned parts shall be drained for at least 15 seconds
                      and/or until dripping ceases. Any pools of solvent shall be tipped
                      out on the clean part back into the tank.

II.C.   Control of Non-Conveyorized Vapor Degreasers
        II.C.1. Control Equipment

              II.C.1.a.      The non-conveyorized vapor degreaser shall have a cover
                      which shall be designed and operated so that it can be easily
                      opened and closed through the use of mechanical assists such as
                      spring loading, counterweights, etc.; opening and closing the cover
                      shall not disturb the vapor zone.

              II.C.1.b.      Safety Switches

              The following two types of switches shall be installed on vapor
              degreasers:



                                                                                           90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.C.1.b.(i)   Condenser flow switch and thermostat - (shuts off
                         sump heat if the condenser coolant is either not circulating or
                         is too warm); and

                 II.C.1.b.(ii) Spray safety switch - (shuts off spray pump if the
                         vapor level drops more than four (4) inches).

          II.C.1.c.     Control Device

                 II.C.1.c.(i)   For non-conveyorized vapor degreasers with an open
                         area (with the cover open) of one square meter (10.8 ft2) or
                         less, either the freeboard ratio shall be greater than or equal
                         to 0.75, or one of the control devices in II.C.1.c.(ii) shall be
                         used.

                 II.C.1.c.(ii) For non-conveyorized vapor degreasers with an open
                         area (with the cover open) greater than one (1) square
                         meter, (10.8 ft2), at least one of the following control systems
                         shall be used:

                        II.C.1.c.(ii)(A) Both a powered cover and a freeboard ratio
                                greater than or equal to 0.75.

                        II.C.1.c.(ii)(B) A refrigerated chiller with a cooling capacity
                                equivalent to or greater than the applicable
                                specifications in Appendix C.

                        II.C.1.c.(ii)(C) An enclosed design: A system where the
                                cover(s) or door(s) opens only when a dry part is
                                entering or exiting the degreaser.

                        II.C.1.c.(ii)(D) A carbon adsorption system with ventilation
                                greater than or equal to 15 cubic meters each minute
                                per square meter (50 cfm/ft2) of air/vapor area (when
                                the cover(s) is [are] open), exhausting less than 25
                                parts per million (by volume) of solvent averaged over
                                one complete adsorption cycle.

          II.C.1.d.      A permanent, clearly visible sign shall be mounted on or next
                  to the degreaser. The sign shall list the operating requirements.

    II.C.2. Operating Requirements

          II.C.2.a.      Keep cover closed at all times except when processing work
                  loads into or out of the degreaser.



                                                                                          91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              II.C.2.b.     The following operations shall be performed to minimize
                      solvent carry-out:

                     II.C.2.b.(i)   Rack parts to allow full drainage.

                     II.C.2.b.(ii) Move parts as slowly as is practicable in and out of
                             the degreaser. A maximum of one foot every five seconds by
                             hand or a maximum of 5.5 cm/sec. (10.8ft/min) for a
                             mechanically operated system.
                     II.C.2.b.(iii) Allow the workload to clean in the vapor zone at least
                             30 seconds or until condensation ceases.
                     II.C.2.b.(iv) Tip out any pools of solvent that remain on the
                             cleaned parts before removal from the vapor zone.

                     II.C.2.b.(v) Allow parts to dry within the degreaser at least 15
                             seconds and/or until visually dry.

              II.C.2.c.     Solvents shall not be used to clean porous or absorbent
                      materials; for example, cloth, leather, wood, rope, etc.

              II.C.2.d.     Workloads shall not occupy more than half of the
                      degreaser's open top area.

              II.C.2.e.      Spraying shall not be done above the vapor level.

              II.C.2.f.     Solvent leaks shall be repaired immediately, or the
                      degreaser shall be shut down.

              II.C.2.g.      Exhaust ventilation shall not exceed twenty (20) cubic
                      meters per minute per square meter (65.6 cfm per sq. ft.) of
                      degreaser open area, unless greater exhaust rates are necessary
                      to meet Occupational and Safety Health Act requirements.
                      Ventilation fans shall not be used near the degreaser opening,
                      unless necessary to meet Occupational and Safety Health Act
                      requirements.

              II.C.2.h.     The water separator shall function so that no visible water is
                      present in the solvent exiting the separator.

II.D.   Control of Conveyorized Degreasers

        II.D.1. Control Equipment
              II.D.1.a.      Control Device




                                                                                        92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         For all conveyorized degreasers with a solvent surface area greater than
         two (2) square meters (21.5 square feet), the degreasing shall be
         controlled by at least one of the following:

                II.D.1.a.(i)    Carbon adsorption system, with ventilation greater or
                        equal to 15 cubic meters per minute per square meter (49.2
                        cfm/ft2) of air/vapor interface for vapor degreasers (of
                        air/liquid interface for non-vapor types) when down-time
                        covers are open, and exhausting less than 25 parts per
                        million of solvent (by volume) averaged over a complete
                        adsorption cycle.

                II.D.1.a.(ii) For vapor degreasers only: a refrigerated chiller with a
                        cooling capacity equivalent to or greater than the applicable
                        specifications in Appendix D.

         II.D.1.b.      Prevention of Carry-out
         A drying tunnel, tumbling basket(s), or other demonstrably effective
         method(s) shall be employed to prevent cleaned parts from carrying out
         solvent liquid or vapor.

         II.D.1.c.      Safety Switches

                II.D.1.c.(i)   The following two (2) switch-circuits (or equivalent)
                        shall be installed.

                        II.D.1.c.(i)(A) A spray safety switch shall shut off the spray
                                pump and/or the conveyor if the vapor level drops
                                more than four (4) inches.

                        II.D.1.c.(i)(B) A vapor level control thermostat shall shut off
                                sump heat when the vapor level rises too high.

                II.D.1.c.(ii) All conveyorized degreasers shall have a condenser
                        thermostat and flow-detector switch (or equivalent) which
                        shuts off sump heat if coolant is too warm or is not
                        circulating.
         II.D.1.d.       Minimized Openings: Degreaser entrance and exit openings
                 shall silhouette workloads so that the average clearance between
                 parts (or parts-and the edge of the degreaser opening) is either:

                II.D.1.d.(i)    less than 10 centimeters (4 inches) or;

                II.D.1.d.(ii)   less than 10 percent of the width of the opening



                                                                                         93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              II.D.1.e.       Covers shall be provided to close off all the entrance(s) and
                      exit(s) when the conveyor is not in use.

              II.D.1.f.      A permanent, clearly visible sign shall be mounted on or next
                      to the degreaser. The sign shall list the operating requirements.

        II.D.2. Operating Requirements

              II.D.2.a.      Exhaust ventilation shall not exceed 20 m3/minute per
                      square meter of degreaser opening (65.6 cf/m per square foot),
                      unless necessary to meet OSHA requirements. Work place fans
                      shall not be located near, nor directed at degreaser openings,
                      unless necessary to meet OSHA requirements. Exhaust flow shall
                      be measured by EPA reference methods 1 and 2 of 40 CFR Part
                      60 (March 29, 2023).

              II.D.2.b.     Carry-out emissions shall be minimized by:

                     II.D.2.b.(i)  Racking parts in such a manner to achieve best
                             drainage.

                     II.D.2.b.(ii) Maintaining the vertical component of conveyor speed
                             at less than 3.3 meters per minute (10.8 feet per minute).

              II.D.2.c.     Repair solvent leaks immediately, or shut down the
                      degreaser.

              II.D.2.d.       The water separator shall function with an efficiency
                      sufficient to prevent water from being visible in the solvent exiting
                      the separator.

              II.D.2.e.      Down-time cover(s) shall be placed over entrances and exits
                      of conveyorized degreasers immediately after the conveyor and
                      exhaust are shut down. Covers shall be retained in position until
                      immediately before start-up.

II.E.   Control of Industrial Cleaning Solvent Operations

        II.E.1. Control Requirements

        The owner or operator of an industrial cleaning solvent operation with total
        combined uncontrolled actual VOC emissions equal to or greater than three (3)
        tons per calendar year (excluding VOC emissions from solvents used for
        cleaning operations that are exempt under Section II.E.4.) must:

              II.E.1.a.      Limit the VOC content of cleaning solvents to less than or
                      equal to 0.42 lb of VOC/gal (50 grams VOC/liter); or


                                                                                              94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          II.E.1.b.     Limit the composite partial vapor pressure of the cleaning
                  solvent to 8 millimeters of mercury (mmHg) at 20 degrees Celsius
                  (68 degrees Fahrenheit); or

          II.E.1.c.     Reduce VOC emissions with an emission control system
                  having a control efficiency of 90% or greater.

    II.E.2. Work Practice Requirements

    The owner or operator of an industrial cleaning solvent operation must implement
    the following work practice requirements at all times to reduce VOC emissions
    from fugitive sources:
          II.E.2.a.      Cover open containers and used applicators in a manner
                  that minimizes evaporation into the atmosphere;

          II.E.2.b.     Properly dispose of used solvent and shop towels; and
          II.E.2.c.      Implement good air pollution control practices that minimize
                  emissions, including, but not limited to, using only volumes
                  necessary for cleaning and maintaining cleaning equipment to be
                  leak free.

    II.E.3. Monitoring, Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

          II.E.3.a.      The owner or operator of an industrial cleaning solvent
                  operation must keep the following records for two (2) years and
                  make them available for inspection by the Division upon request:

                 II.E.3.a.(i) If applicable, records demonstrating that a listed
                         exemption to this Section II.E. applies.

                 II.E.3.a.(ii) If applicable, monthly records such as safety data
                         sheets or other analytical data from the industrial cleaning
                         solvent manufacturer showing the VOC type and VOC
                         content, or the composite partial vapor pressure at 20
                         degrees Celsius, and total amount of VOC-containing
                         solvent used in solvent cleaning operations to demonstrate
                         compliance with the control requirements in Sections
                         II.E.1.a. and II.E.1.b.

                 II.E.3.a.(iii) If applicable, monthly records sufficient to
                         demonstrate compliance with the control requirement in
                         Section II.E.1.c.




                                                                                     95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                  II.E.3.a.(iv) Records of calendar year VOC emission estimates
                          demonstrating whether the industrial cleaning solvent
                          operation meets or exceeds the applicability threshold in
                          Section II.E.1.
          II.E.3.b.      Compliance with the control requirements in Section II.E.1.
                  must be demonstrated using one of the following methods as
                  applicable:

                  II.E.3.b.(i)   Safety data sheets or other analytical data from the
                          industrial cleaning solvent manufacturer to demonstrate
                          compliance with Sections II.E.1.a. and II.E.1.b.;

                  II.E.3.b.(ii) A manufacturer guarantee of the control equipment’s
                          emission control efficiency and operation and maintenance
                          of control equipment according to manufacturer’s
                          specifications to demonstrate compliance with Section
                          II.E.1.c.; or

                  II.E.3.b.(iii) A performance test conducted during representative
                          operations using one of the following methods, as
                          applicable:

                          II.E.3.b.(iii)(A)    EPA Method 24 (40 CFR Part 60,
                                  Appendix A) (October 7, 2020) to determine VOC
                                  content;

                          II.E.3.b.(iii)(B)      EPA Method 18, 25, or 25A (40 CFR
                                  Part 60, Appendix A) (March 29, 2023) to determine
                                  control efficiency of the emission control equipment.
    II.E.4. Exemptions

          II.E.4.a.      Industrial cleaning solvent operations are not subject to
                  Section II.E. if they are subject to a work practice or emission
                  control requirement in another federally enforceable section of
                  Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 that
                  establishes RACT.

          II.E.4.b.       The VOC control requirements in Section II.E.1. do not apply
                  to:

                  II.E.4.b.(i)    Cleaning of electrical and electronic components;

                  II.E.4.b.(ii)   Cleaning of precision optics;



                                                                                        96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                    5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.E.4.b.(iii)   Cleaning of numismatic dies;

                       II.E.4.b.(iv)    Stripping of cured inks, coatings, and adhesives;

                       II.E.4.b.(v) Cleaning of resin, coating, ink, and adhesive
                               manufacturing, mixing, molding, and application equipment;

                       II.E.4.b.(vi)    Cleaning of research and development laboratories;

                       II.E.4.b.(vii) Cleaning of medical device or pharmaceutical
                               manufacturing equipment;

                       II.E.4.b.(viii) Performance testing to determine coating, adhesive,
                               ink or ink performance;

                       II.E.4.b.(ix) Cleaning of equipment and materials used in testing
                               for quality control or quality assurance purposes;

                       II.E.4.b.(x)     Cleaning of digital printing operations; and

                       II.E.4.b.(xi)    Cleaning of screen printing operations.

               II.E.4.c.       In lieu of compliance with Section II.E.1. and II.E.2., the
                       owner or operator of an area source aerospace facility, as defined
                       in 40 CFR Part 63, Section 63.742 (November 17, 2016), may
                       implement the solvent cleaning provisions of the National Emission
                       Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Aerospace
                       Manufacturing and Rework facilities contained in 40 CFR Part 63,
                       Section 63.744 (November 17, 2016) along with the applicable
                       definitions contained in 40 CFR Part 63, Section 63.742 (November
                       17, 2016), except that:

                       II.E.4.c.(i)  VOC-containing solvents which meet the definition of
                               “non-HAP materials” in 40 CFR Part 63, Section 63.742
                               (November 17, 2016) are not excluded from the
                               housekeeping measures contained in 40 CFR Part 63,
                               Section 63.744(a) (November 17, 2016); and

                       II.E.4.c.(ii) The baseline reduction compliance option contained
                               in 40 CFR Part 63, Section 63.744(b)(3) (November 17,
                               2016) is not available for purposes of compliance with this
                               VOC control rule.

II.F.   General Solvent Use

        II.F.1. Applicability



                                                                                            97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

           II.F.1.a.      Within the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area: As of May 1, 2021,
                   the requirements of Section II.F. apply to operations that use
                   solvents with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or
                   equal to two (2) tons per year that existed at major sources of VOC
                   (greater than or equal to 50 tpy VOC) as of January 27, 2020.

           II.F.1.b.      (State Only) Outside the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area: As of
                   May 1, 2021, the requirements of Section II.F. apply to operations
                   that use solvents with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater
                   than or equal to five (5) tons per year that existed at sources of
                   VOC greater than or equal to 50 tpy VOC as of January 27, 2020.

           II.F.1.c.      Within the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area: As of May 1, 2023,
                   the requirements of Section II.F. apply to operations that use
                   solvents with uncontrolled actual VOC emissions greater than or
                   equal to two (2) tons per year that existed at major sources of VOC
                   (greater than or equal to 25 tpy VOC) as of November 7, 2022.

    II.F.2. Exemptions

    The requirements of this Section II.F. do not apply to:

           II.F.2.a.      Operations that are subject to a solvent work practice or
                   emission control requirement in another federally enforceable
                   section of Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and
                   Number 26 that constitutes RACT, or;

           II.F.2.b.      Solvent use where the solvent does not contain VOCs.

    II.F.3. Work practice requirements

    The owner or operator of operations that use solvents must implement the
    following work practice requirements at all times to reduce VOC emissions from
    fugitive sources:

           II.F.3.a.      Cover open containers and used applicators in a manner
                   that minimizes evaporation into the atmosphere;

           II.F.3.b.     Properly dispose of used solvent and solvent contaminated
                   waste (e.g. shop towels and carbon filtration or other control device
                   media), and;
           II.F.3.c.     Implement good air pollution control practices that minimize
                   emissions, including but not limited to:

                  II.F.3.c.(i)   Using low or no-VOC solvents, if possible;



                                                                                      98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 II.F.3.c.(ii)  Using only volumes of solvent necessary for
                         operations;

                 II.F.3.c.(iii) Using submerged fill pipes in storage tanks and
                         containers;

                 II.F.3.c.(iv) Using closed loop systems to minimize solvent loss
                         during transfer and use of solvents;

                 II.F.3.c.(v) Maintaining solvent storage, transfer, and use
                         operations equipment in such a way that it minimizes
                         evaporation loss and remains leak free, and;
                 II.F.3.c.(vi) Owners or operators of sources that use a carbon
                         adsorption system must provide for the proper disposal or
                         reuse of all VOC recovered.

    II.F.4. Control of general solvent use

    The owner or operator of operations that use solvents with uncontrolled actual
    VOC emissions greater than or equal to twenty-five (25) tons per year on a
    calendar year basis, and that are located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area, must
    reduce solvent use VOC emissions by 90%.

    II.F.5. Monitoring requirements

          II.F.5.a.       The owner or operator of operations that use solvents that
                  utilize a closed-loop system for emission control must inspect the
                  control system using audio, visual, olfactory (AVO) on a monthly
                  basis for perceptible emissions. First attempt to repair must be
                  made upon detection if feasible, but no later than three (3) calendar
                  days from detection.

          II.F.5.b The owner or operator of operations that use solvents that utilize a
                  control device must operate and maintain the control device
                  consistent with the manufacturer’s specifications.

          II.F.5.c.     The owner or operator of operations that use solvents that
                  are subject to the 90% control requirement in Section II.F.4. must:

                 II.F.5.c.(i)   Complete a performance test once every three (3)
                         years during representative operations to verify compliance
                         with Section II.F.4. using one of the following methods, as
                         applicable:




                                                                                     99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                       II.F.5.c.(i)(A) EPA Method 24 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A)
                               (October 7, 2020) to determine VOC content.

                       II.F.5.c.(i)(B) EPA Method 18, 25, or 25A (40 CFR Part 60,
                               Appendix A) (March 29, 2023) to determine control
                               efficiency of the emission control equipment

                II.F.5.c.(ii)  Conduct all performance tests in accordance with
                        EPA test methods and a test protocol submitted to the
                        Division for review at least thirty (30) days prior to testing
                        and in accordance with AQCC Common Provisions
                        Regulation Section II.C.

                II.F.5.c.(iii) Comply with control device and monitoring system
                        manufacturers’ specifications for operation and maintenance
                        for equipment used to demonstrate compliance with Section
                        II.F.4.
    II.F.6. Recordkeeping

          II.F.6.a.      Records of calendar year VOC emission estimates
                  demonstrating whether the solvent operation meets or exceeds the
                  applicability threshold in Section II.F.1.

          II.F.6.b.     If applicable, records demonstrating that an exemption to
                  Section II.F.2. applies.

          II.F.6.c.      Monthly solvent losses based on beginning and ending
                  inventories, solvent received, inventory adjustments, solvent
                  destroyed in a control device, solvent recovered, and any volume of
                  solvent normally retained in recovery equipment. Solvent losses
                  must be totaled on a rolling 12-month basis.

          II.F.6.d.      Monthly records such as safety data sheets or other
                  analytical data from the solvent manufacturer showing the VOC
                  type and VOC content, or the composite partial vapor pressure at
                  20 degrees Celsius, and total amount of VOC-containing solvent
                  used in solvent operations.

          II.F.6.e.     Records of negative pressure ranges, and other records
                  necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section II.F.3.

          II.F.6.f.       Manufacturer guarantee of the control equipment’s emission
                   control efficiency to demonstrate compliance with Section II.F.4.




                                                                                         100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              II.F.6.g.      If applicable, monthly records of operation and maintenance
                      of control device and monitoring system according to
                      manufacturer’s specifications to demonstrate compliance with
                      Sections II.F.4. and II.F.5.
              II.F.6.h.    If applicable, Records of performance tests conducted to
                      demonstrate compliance with Section II.F.5.

              II.F.6.i.        If applicable, monthly records of AVO inspections including:
                      II.F.6.i.(i)    The date, facility name, and facility AIRS ID or facility
                               location if the facility does not have an AIRS ID for each
                               inspection;

                      II.F.6.i.(ii)   A list of the leaks requiring repair,

                      II.F.6.i.(iii) The date of first attempt to repair the leak and, if
                               necessary, any additional attempt to repair;

                      II.F.6.i.(iv) The date the leak was repaired and type of repair
                               method applied.

              II.F.6.j.       Records must be maintained for two (2) years and made
                       available for inspection by the Division upon request.

III.   Use of Cutback Asphalt

III.A. Definitions
       III.A.1. “Asphalt or Asphalt Cement” The dark-brown to black cementitious
                material (solid, semi-solid, or liquid in consistency) of which the main
                constituents are bitumen’s which occur naturally or as a residue of
                petroleum refining.

       III.A.2. “Asphalt Concrete” A waterproof and durable paving material composed of
                dried aggregate, which is evenly coated with hot asphalt cement.

       III.A.3. “Cutback Asphalt or Cutback Asphalt Cement” Any asphalt which has
                been liquefied by blending with a VOC, such as a petroleum solvent
                diluents or, in the case of some slow cure asphalts (Road Oils), which has
                been produced directly from the distillation of petroleum.
       III.A.4. “Emulsified Asphalt” Asphalt emulsions produced by combining asphalt
                and water with emulsifying agent. Emulsified Asphalt or any other coating
                or sealant, including but not limited to those produced from petroleum or
                coal, which contain more than five (5) percent of oil distillate as
                determined by ASTM Method D-244 is included in this definition.


                                                                                            101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       III.A.5. “Penetrating Prime Coat” An application of low-viscosity liquid asphalt to
                an absorbent surface in order to prepare it for overlaying with a layer or
                layers of asphalt cement or asphalt emulsion and mineral aggregate
                paving materials.
III.B. Limitations

       III.B.1. Applicability

       The provisions of this Section III. apply to the use and storage of cutback asphalt
       for the paving and maintenance of all public roadways (including alleys), private
       roadways, parking lots, and driveways only within ozone nonattainment areas.
       III.B.2. Storage

       Stockpiles of aggregate mixed with cutback asphalt are permitted October 1
       through February 28 (29). Such storage is not permitted March 1 through
       September 30 except where it can be demonstrated to the Division that such
       storage is necessary.

       III.B.3. Use

       Cutback asphalt may be used for any paving purpose October 1 through
       February 28 (29). No person shall use cutback asphalt or any coating included in
       the definition of cutback asphalt in Section III.A.3. March 1 through September 30
       except as provided:

              III.B.3.a.        If used solely as a penetrating prime coat, or

              III.B.3.b.     If the user can demonstrate to the Division that under the
                      conditions of its intended use, there will be no emissions of volatile
                      organic compounds to the ambient air.

III.C. Recordkeeping

During the months of March through September, the person responsible for the use or
storage of any cutback asphalt as permitted in Sections III.B.3.a., III.B.3.b., and Section
III.B.2. shall keep records of same, including type and amount of solvent(s) used.

IV.    Graphic Arts and Printing

IV.A. Packaging Rotogravure, Publication Rotogravure, and Flexographic Printing

       IV.A.1.        Definitions

       For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:




                                                                                          102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          IV.A.1.a.     "Flexographic Printing" means the application of words,
                 designs, and pictures to a substrate by means of a roll printing
                 technique in which the pattern to be applied is raised above the
                 printing roll and the image carrier is made of rubber or other
                 elastomeric materials.

          IV.A.1.b.     "Packaging Rotogravure Printing" means rotogravure
                 printing upon paper, paperboard, metal foil, plastic film, and other
                 substrates, which are, in subsequent operations, formed into
                 packaging products and labels for articles to be sold.

          IV.A.1.c.     "Publication Rotogravure Printing" means rotogravure
                 printing upon paper, which is subsequently formed into books,
                 magazines, catalogues, brochures, directories, newspaper
                 supplements, and other types of printed materials.

          IV.A.1.d.     "Roll Printing" means the application of words, designs, and
                 pictures to a substrate usually by means of a series of hard rubber
                 or steel rolls each with only partial coverage.

          IV.A.1.e.     "Rotogravure Printing" means the application of words,
                 designs, and pictures to a substrate by means of a roll printing
                 technique, which involves an intaglio or recessed image areas in
                 the form of cells.

    IV.A.2.      Applicability

          IV.A.2.a.     This section applies to all packaging rotogravure, publication
                 rotogravure, and flexographic printing facilities whose potential
                 emissions of volatile organic compounds before control (determined
                 at design capacity and 8760 hrs/year, or at maximum production,
                 and accounting for any capacity or production limitations in a
                 federally-enforceable permit) are equal to or more than 90,000 Kg
                 per year (100 tons/year). Potential emissions are to be estimated
                 by extrapolating historical records of actual consumption of solvent
                 and ink. (e.g., the historical use of 20 gallons of ink for 4,000 annual
                 hours would be extrapolated to 43.8 gallons for 8760 hours.) The
                 before-control volatile organic compound emissions calculations
                 shall be the summation of all volatile organic compounds in the inks
                 and solvents (including cleaning liquids) used.
    IV.A.3.      Provisions for Specific Processes




                                                                                     103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

         IV.A.3.a.     No owner or operator of a facility subject to this section and
                employing VOC-containing ink shall operate, cause, allow, or
                permit the operation of the facility unless:

                IV.A.3.a.(i) The volatile fraction of ink, as it is applied to the
                       substrate, contains 25.0 percent or less (by volume) of VOC
                       and 75.0 percent or more (by volume) of water; or

                IV.A.3.a.(ii) The ink (minus water) as it is applied to the substrate,
                       contains 60.0 percent or more (by volume) non-volatile
                       material; or

                IV.A.3.a.(iii) The owner or operator installs and operates a control
                       device and capture system in accordance with Sections
                       IV.A.3.b. and IV.A.3.c.; or

                IV.A.3.a.(iv) A combination of solvent-borne inks and low solvent
                       inks that achieve a 70% (volume) overall reduction of solvent
                       usage (compared to an all solvent borne ink usage) is used;
                       or
                IV.A.3.a.(v) Flexographic and packaging rotogravure printing
                       facilities limit emissions to 0.5 pounds of VOC per pound of
                       solids in the ink. The limit includes all solvent added to the
                       ink: solvent in the purchased ink, solvent added to cut the ink
                       to achieve desired press viscosity, and solvent added to ink
                       on the press to maintain viscosity during the press run.
                       (Publication rotogravure facilities shall not use this option); or

                IV.A.3.a.(vi) Crossline averaging is used. The requirements of
                       Section I.A.5.d. apply.

         IV.A.3.b.     A capture system shall be used in conjunction with the
                emission control system in Section IV.A.3.a. The design and
                operation of a capture system shall be consistent with good
                engineering practice, and in conjunction with control equipment
                shall be required to provide for an overall reduction in volatile
                organic compound emissions of at least:
                IV.A.3.b.(i) 75.0 percent where a publication rotogravure process
                       is employed;

                IV.A.3.b.(ii) 65.0 percent where a packaging rotogravure process
                       is employed; or



                                                                                    104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                    IV.A.3.b.(iii) 60.0 percent where a flexographic printing process is
                           employed.

             IV.A.3.c.      The design, operation, and efficiency of any capture system
                    used in conjunction with any emission control system shall be
                    certified in writing by the source owner or operator and approved by
                    the Division. Testing of any capture system may be required by the
                    Division on a case-by-case basis, in cases where a total enclosure
                    is not used or when material balance results are questionable.
                    Testing of capture system efficiency shall meet the requirements of
                    Section I.A.5.e.

             IV.A.3.d.      The overall reduction in VOC emissions specified in Section
                    IV.A.3.b. shall be calculated by material balance methods approved
                    by the Division, or by determination of capture and control device
                    efficiencies. The overall VOC emission reduction rate equals the
                    (percent capture efficiency X percent control device efficiency)/100.

      IV.A.4.       Testing and Monitoring

      The owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this section is
      also subject to the requirements of Part B, Sections I.A.3., I.A.7, I.A.9., and
      I.A.10. In Part B, Section I.A.3., EPA reference method 24A (October 7, 2020)
      shall be the test method used for publication rotogravure inks, while EPA
      Reference method 24 (October 7, 2020) data is acceptable for all other inks. Test
      methods as set forth in Appendix A, Part 60, Chapter I, Title 40, of the Code of
      Federal Regulations (CFR), in effect July 1, 2022.

      IV.A.5.       The owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of
             this section is also subject to the requirements of Section I.A.8. "A
             Guideline for Graphic Arts Calculations" shall be used for compliance
             determination.

IV.B. Lithographic and Letterpress Printing

      IV.B.1.       General Provisions

             IV.B.1.a.    Definitions

                    IV.B.1.a.(i) “Alcohol” means any of the hydroxyl-containing
                           organic compounds with a molecular weight equal to or less
                           than 74.12, which includes methanol, ethanol, propanol, and
                           butanol.




                                                                                     105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              IV.B.1.a.(ii) “Alcohol substitute” means nonalcohol additives that
                     contain VOCs and are used in the fountain solution to
                     reduce the surface tension of water or prevent ink piling.

              IV.B.1.a.(iii) “Cleaning material” means a VOC-containing material
                     used to remove ink and debris from the printing press area,
                     operating surfaces of the printing press and, printing press
                     parts. Blanket wash is a type of cleaning material.

              IV.B.1.a.(iv) “Composite partial vapor pressure” means the sum of
                     the partial pressures of the compounds defined as VOCs.
                     Composite partial vapor pressure is calculated as follows:




              Where:

              Wi       =   Weight of the “i”th VOC compound, in grams

              Ww       =   Weight of water, in grams

              We       =   Weight of exempt compound, in grams

              MWi      =   Molecular weight of the “i”th VOC compound, in g/g-mole

              MWw      =   Molecular weight of water, in g/g-mole
              MWc      =   Molecular weight of exempt compound, in g/g-mole

              PPc      =   VOC composite partial vapor pressure at 20°C (68°F), in
                           mm Hg
              VPi      =   Vapor pressure of the “i”th VOC compound at 20°C(68°F),
                           in mm Hg
              IV.B.1.a.(v) “Fountain solution” means a mixture of water,
                     nonvolatile printing chemicals, and a liquid additive that
                     reduces the surface tension of the water so that it spreads
                     easily across the printing plate surface. The fountain solution
                     wets the non-image areas so that the ink is maintained
                     within the image areas.

              IV.B.1.a.(vi “Heatset” means any lithographic or letterpress
                     printing operation where printing inks are set by the
                     evaporation of the ink oils in a heatset dryer.



                                                                                106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                IV.B.1.a.(vii) “Heatset dryer” means a hot air dryer used in heatset
                       lithography to heat the printed substrate and to promote the
                       evaporation of ink oils.

                IV.B.1.a.(viii) “Lithographic printing” means a planographic printing
                       process where the image and non-image areas are
                       chemically differentiated (the image area is oil receptive and
                       the non-image area is water receptive). This printing process
                       differs from other conventional printing methods, where the
                       image is a raised or recessed surface.

                IV.B.1.a.(ix) “Letterpress printing” means a printing process in
                       which the image area is raised relative to the non-image
                       area and the paste ink is transferred to the substrate directly
                       from the image surface.

                IV.B.1.a.(x) “Non-heatset” means any printing operation where the
                       printing inks are set without the use of heat. For the purpose
                       of Section IV.B., ultraviolet-cured and electron beam-cured
                       inks are considered non-heatset.

                IV.B.1.a.(xi) “Offset lithographic printing” means a printing process
                       that transfers the ink film from the lithographic plate to an
                       intermediary surface (blanket), which in turn transfers the ink
                       film to the substrate.
                IV.B.1.a.(xii) “Press” means a printing production assembly
                       composed of one or more print units used to produce a
                       printed substrate including any associated coating, spray
                       powder application, heatset web dryer, ultraviolet or electron
                       beam curing units, or infrared heating units.

                IV.B.1.a.(xiii) “Sheet-fed printing” means a printing process where
                       individual sheets of paper or substrate are fed into the
                       printing press.
                IV.B.1.a.(xiv) “Web printing” means a printing process where
                       continuous rolls of substrate material are fed to the press
                       and rewound or cut to size after printing.

         IV.B.1.b.     Applicability




                                                                                     107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                IV.B.1.b.(i) The provisions of this Section IV.B. apply to fountain
                       solutions, cleaning materials, inks (which include varnishes)
                       and coatings used in lithographic and letterpress printing
                       presses. These materials are not subject to the requirements
                       of Sections I. and II.

                IV.B.1.b.(ii) The work practice requirements in Section IV.B.1.c.
                       apply to all lithographic and letterpress printing operations.

                IV.B.1.b.(iii) The VOC content limit for inks in Section IV.B.1.d.
                       applies to lithographic and letterpress printing operations
                       where total combined uncontrolled actual VOC emissions
                       from each printing operation, including related cleaning
                       materials and fountain solutions, are equal to or greater than
                       three (3) tons per calendar year.

                IV.B.1.b.(iv) The cleaning material requirements in Section IV.B.2.
                       apply to letterpress printing operations where total combined
                       uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from each printing
                       operation, including related cleaning materials and fountain
                       solutions, are equal to or greater than three (3) tons per
                       calendar year.
                IV.B.1.b.(v) The cleaning material and fountain solution
                       requirements in Sections IV.B.2. and IV.B.3. apply to offset
                       lithographic printing operations where total combined
                       uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from each printing
                       operation, including related cleaning materials and fountain
                       solutions, are equal to or greater than three (3) tons per
                       calendar year.
                IV.B.1.b.(vi) The control requirements in Section IV.B.4. apply to
                       each heatset web offset lithographic and heatset web
                       letterpress printing press with the potential to emit from the
                       dryer, prior to controls, at least 25 tons per calendar year of
                       VOC (petroleum ink oil) from heatset inks.

         IV.B.1.c.     Work Practice Requirements

         Lithographic and letterpress printing operations must implement the
         following work practices at all times to reduce VOC emissions from fugitive
         sources:




                                                                                   108
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                 IV.B.1.c.(i) Cover open containers and keep cleaning materials in
                        closed containers when not in use;

                 IV.B.1.c.(ii) Properly dispose of used cleaning materials, fountain
                        solutions, and used shop towels; and

                 IV.B.1.c.(iii) Implement good air pollution control practices that
                        minimize emissions, including, but not limited to, using only
                        volumes necessary for cleaning and maintain cleaning
                        equipment to repair cleaning materials leaks.

          IV.B.1.d.     VOC Content Limit for Inks
                 IV.B.1.d.(i) Lithographic and letterpress printing operations,
                        excluding heatset web offset and heatset web letterpress
                        printing operations, must use low-VOC inks, which average
                        less than 30% (by weight) VOC on a monthly basis.

                 IV.B.1.d.(ii) Heatset web offset lithographic and heatset web
                        letterpress printing operations must use low-VOC inks, which
                        average less than 40% (by weight) VOC on a monthly basis.

    IV.B.2.      Offset lithographic printing and letterpress printing operations must
           comply with the following cleaning materials requirements;

          IV.B.2.a.    All cleaning materials must contain less than 70% (by
                 weight) VOC or have a VOC composite vapor pressure less than
                 10 mmHg at 20°C.

          IV.B.2.b.     Exemptions

          The following materials and operations are exempt from the cleaning
          material requirements in Section IV.B.2.a.:

                 IV.B.2.b.(i)    Cleaners used on electronic components of a press.

                 IV.B.2.b.(ii)   Pre-press cleaning operations.

                 IV.B.2.b.(iii) Post-press cleaning operations.

                 IV.B.2.b.(iv) Floor cleaning supplies (other than those used to
                        clean dried ink).

                 IV.B.2.b.(v) Cleaning performed in parts washers or cold cleaners
                        that are subject to Section II.

          IV.B.2.c.     Use of non-compliant cleaning materials



                                                                                   109
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          Cleaning materials not meeting the limits in Section IV.B.2.a. are limited to
          less than or equal to 110 gallons per calendar year.

    IV.B.3.       Offset lithographic printing operations must comply with the
           following fountain solution requirements:

          IV.B.3.a.     Heatset web offset lithographic printing operations must:

                 IV.B.3.a.(i) Use a fountain solution containing 1.6% alcohol (by
                        weight) or less as applied;

                 IV.B.3.a.(ii) Use a fountain solution containing 3% alcohol (by
                        weight) or less as applied if the fountain solution is
                        refrigerated to below 60°F (15.5°C); or

                 IV.B.3.a.(iii) Use a fountain solution containing 5% alcohol
                        substitute (by weight) or less as applied and no alcohol.

          IV.B.3.b.     Sheet-fed printing operations must

                 IV.B.3.b.(i) Use a fountain solution containing 5% alcohol (by
                        weight) or less as applied;

                 IV.B.3.b.(ii) Use a fountain solution containing 8.5% alcohol (by
                        weight) or less as applied if the fountain solution is
                        refrigerated to below 60°F (15.5°C); or

                 IV.B.3.b.(iii) Use a fountain solution containing 5% alcohol
                        substitute (by weight) or less as applied and no alcohol.

                 IV.B.3.b.(iv) The following are exempt from the fountain solution
                        requirements in Section IV.B.3.b.:
                        IV.B.3.b.(iv)(A)     Fountain solution use associated with a
                               sheet-fed printing press with maximum sheet size
                               11x17 inches or smaller.

                        IV.B.3.b.(iv)(B)     Fountain solution use associated with a
                               sheet-fed printing press having a total fountain
                               solution reservoir less than one (1) gallon.

          IV.B.3.c.     Non-heatset web printing must use a fountain solution
                 containing 5% alcohol substitute (by weight) or less and no alcohol.

    IV.B.4.       Heatset web offset lithographic and heatset web letterpress printing
           operations must comply with the following control requirements:




                                                                                    110
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

          IV.B.4.a.     Heatset web offset lithographic and heatset web letterpress
                 printing operations must reduce VOC emissions from heatset
                 dryers with an emission control system having a control efficiency
                 of 90% or greater.
          IV.B.4.b.     If the control device was first installed on or after January 1,
                 2017, heatset web offset lithographic and heatset web letterpress
                 printing operations must reduce VOC emissions from heatset
                 dryers with an emission control system having a control efficiency
                 of 95% or greater.

          IV.B.4.c.     Where inlet VOC concentration is low and a 90 or 95%
                 control efficiency is not achievable due to low inlet concentrations
                 or measurable due to equipment configuration, heatset web offset
                 lithographic and heatset web letterpress printing operations may
                 reduce the control device outlet concentration to 20 ppmv (as
                 hexane on a dry basis).

          IV.B.4.d.    The following are exempt from the control requirements in
                 Section IV.B.4.:

                 IV.B.4.d.(i)   Heatset presses used for book printing.

                 IV.B.4.d.(ii) Heatset presses with maximum web width of 22
                        inches or less.

                 IV.B.4.d.(iii) Waterborne or radiation (ultra-violet or electron beam)
                        cured materials that are not heatset.

    IV.B.5.      Monitoring, Recordkeeping and Reporting

          IV.B.5.a.    The owner or operator of a heatset web offset lithographic or
                 heatset web letterpress printing operation required to demonstrate
                 compliance with Section IV.B.4. must install, calibrate, maintain,
                 and operate a temperature monitoring device, according to the
                 manufacturer’s specifications.

          IV.B.5.b.     The owner or operator of a lithographic and letterpress
                 printing operations subject to Sections IV.B.1.d. and IV.B.2. through
                 IV.B.4. must keep the following records for two (2) years and make
                 them available for inspection by the Division upon request:

                 IV.B.5.b.(i) If applicable, records demonstrating that a listed
                        exemption to this Section IV.B. applies.




                                                                                     111
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

               IV.B.5.b.(ii) If applicable, monthly records of the type, alcohol
                      content or alcohol substitute content, and total volume of
                      fountain solution used in printing operations.

               IV.B.5.b.(iii) If applicable, monthly records of the type, VOC
                      content or composite vapor pressure, and total volume of the
                      cleaning materials used in printing operations.

               IV.B.5.b.(iv) If applicable, monthly records of the type, VOC
                      content, and total volume of inks (including varnishes) and
                      coatings used in printing operations.

               IV.B.5.b.(v) If applicable, monthly records demonstrating
                      compliance with the control requirements in Section IV.B.4.

               IV.B.5.b.(vi) Records of calendar year VOC emission estimates
                      demonstrating whether the printing operation meets or
                      exceed the applicability thresholds in Section IV.B.1.b.

         IV.B.5.c.     Compliance with control requirements must be demonstrated
                using the following methods as applicable:

               IV.B.5.c.(i) Safety data sheets or other analytical data from the
                      ink, cleaning material, or fountain solution manufacturer to
                      demonstrate compliance with VOC content limit for inks in
                      Section IV.B.1.d., the cleaning material requirements in
                      Section IV.B.2., and the fountain solution requirements in
                      Section IV.B.3.;

               IV.B.5.c.(ii) A manufacturer guarantee of the control equipment’s
                      emission control efficiency and operation and maintenance
                      of control equipment according to manufacturer’s
                      specifications to demonstrate compliance with the control
                      equipment requirements in Section IV.B.4.; or

               IV.B.5.c.(iii) A performance test conducted during representative
                      conditions using one of the following methods as applicable:

                      IV.B.5.c.(iii)(A)    EPA Method 24 (40 CFR Part 60,
                             Appendix A) (October 7, 2020) to determine VOC
                             content for inks, fountain solutions and cleaning
                             materials; or




                                                                                   112
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

                              IV.B.5.c.(iii)(B)     EPA Method 18, 25, or 25A (40 CFR
                                     Part 60, Appendix A) (March 29, 2023) to determine
                                     control efficiency or outlet concentration of the
                                     emission control equipment.
IV.C. Repealed

V.     Pharmaceutical Synthesis

V.A.   General Provisions

       V.A.1. Applicability

       This section applies to all sources of volatile organic compounds associated with
       pharmaceutical manufacturing activities, including, but not limited to, reactors,
       distillation units, dryers, storage of VOCs, extraction equipment, filters,
       crystallizers, and centrifuges.
       V.A.2. Exemptions

       Extraction of organic substances from animal or vegetable material; fermentation
       and culturing; formulation and packaging of pharmaceutical or medicinal
       products.
       V.A.3. Definitions

       For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:

              V.A.3.a.            "Control System" means any number of control
                    devices, including condensers, which are designed and operated to
                    reduce the quantity of VOC emitted to the atmosphere.
              V.A.3.b.            "Pharmaceutical" means a medicine or drug which
                    appears in the United States Pharmacopoeia National Formulary,
                    or which is so designated by the National Drug Code of the United
                    States FDA Bureau of Drugs.

              V.A.3.c.       "Production Equipment Exhaust System" means a device for
                     collecting and directing out of the work area VOC fugitive emissions
                     from reactor openings, centrifuge openings, and other vessel
                     openings for the purpose of protecting workers from excessive
                     VOC exposure.

              V.A.3.d.            "Reactor" means a vat or vessel, which may be
                    jacketed to permit temperature control, designed to contain
                    chemical reactions.



                                                                                     113
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

              V.A.3.e.     "Separation Operation" means a process that separates a
                    mixture of compounds and solvents into two or more components.
                    Specific mechanisms include, but are not limited to, extraction,
                    centrifugation, filtration, distillation, and crystallization.
              V.A.3.f.       "Synthesized Pharmaceutical Manufacturing" means
                     manufacture of pharmaceutical products by chemical synthesis. It
                     includes the manufacture of chemical intermediates (of sufficient
                     purity) which are typically used by the pharmaceutical industry as
                     precursors to finished mixtures of chemicals. (Thus, it excludes
                     those chemical processes which are not directed at creating
                     finished pharmaceutical or chemical intermediates to finished
                     pharmaceuticals.)

V.B.   Provisions for Specific Processes

       V.B.1. The owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall control the
              volatile organic compound emissions from each vent which has the
              potential to emit 6.80 kg/day (l5 lb./day) or more of VOC from reactors,
              distillation operations, crystallizers, centrifuge and vacuum dryers. Surface
              condensers or equivalent controls shall be used, provided that, if surface
              condensers are used, the condenser outlet gas temperature shall not
              exceed the following values:

VOCs True Vapor Pressure* at 20° in torr      Maximum temperature of Gas Stream
(and psia) from (minimum) up to **            immediately exiting the condenser
(maximum)

0-26(0-0.5)                                   35°C (95°F)

26-52(0.5-1.0)                                25°C(77°F)

52-78(1.0-1.5)                                10°C(50°F)

78-150(1.5-2.9)                               0°C(32°F)

150-300(2.9-5.8)                              -15°C(5°F)

Greater than 300(Greater than 5.8)            -25°C(-13°F)




                                                                                       114
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

*The calculation methods for gases containing more than one condensable component
are complex. As a simplification, the temperature necessary for control by condensation
can be roughly approximated by the weighted average of the temperatures necessary
for condensation of each VOC considered separately but at concentrations equal to the
total organic concentration.

**But not including the maximum value of the range.

      V.B.2. Division approval shall be required for control equipment used to control
             VOCs of 570 torr (11 psia) and above.

      V.B.3. The owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall reduce the
             VOC emissions from each air dryer and production equipment exhaust
             system:

             V.B.3.a.     By at least 90 percent if emissions are 150 kg/day (330
                   lbs/day) or more of VOC, or,

             V.B.3.b.    To 15.0 kg/day (33 lb/day) or less if emissions are less than
                   150 kg/day (330 lb/day) of VOC.

      V.B.4. The owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall:

             V.B.4.a.       Provide a vapor balance system or equivalent control that is
                   at least 90.0 percent effective in reducing emissions from truck or
                   railcar deliveries to storage tanks with capacities greater than 7,570
                   liters (2,000 gallons) that store VOC with true vapor pressure
                   greater than 210 torr (4.1 psia) at 20°C; and,
             V.B.4.b.    Install pressure/vacuum conservation vents set at plus or
                   minus 0.2 kPa on all storage tanks that store VOC with true vapor
                   pressures greater than 10.0 kPa (1.5 psi) at 20°C.

      V.B.5. The owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall enclose all
             centrifuges, rotary vacuum filters, and other filters having an exposed
             liquid surface, where the liquid contains VOC and exerts a total VOC true
             vapor pressure of 26 torr (0.5 psia) or more at 20°C.

      V.B.6. The owner or operator of a synthesized pharmaceutical facility subject to
             this section shall install covers on all in-process tanks containing a volatile
             organic compound at any time. These covers shall remain closed unless
             sampling, maintenance, short-duration production procedures or
             inspection procedures require access.




                                                                                        115
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

       V.B.7. The owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall repair all
              leaks from which a liquid, containing VOC, can be observed running or
              dripping. The repair shall be completed the first time the equipment is off-
              line for a period of time long enough to complete the repair, except that no
              leak shall go unrepaired for more than 14 days after initial detection unless
              the Division issues written approval.

       V.B.8. Each surface condenser shall have at least one temperature indicator with
              its sensor located in the outlet gas stream.

V.C.   Testing and Monitoring

       V.C.1. Sources subject to the requirements of this section are also subject to the
              requirements of Sections I.A.3., I.A.7., I.A.8., and I.A.9.




                                                                                       116
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Appendix D Minimum Cooling Capacities for Refrigerated Freeboard Chillers on
     Vapor Degreasers

The specifications in this Appendix apply only to vapor degreasers that have both
condenser coils and refrigerated freeboard chillers. (The coolant in the condenser coils
is normally water.) The amount of refrigeration capacity is expressed in Calories/Hour
per meter of perimeter. This perimeter is measured at the air/vapor interface. For
refrigerated chillers operated below 0°C., the following requirements apply:

DEGREASER WIDTH                *CALORIES/HR METER OF                BTU/HR FOOT OF
Less than 1.1 meters (3.5      165                                  200
1.1 - 1.8 meters (3.5 - 6.0    250                                  300
1.8 - 2.4 meters (6.0 - 8.0    335                                  400
2.4 - 3.0 meters (8.0 - 10.0   145                                  500
Greater than 3.0 meters (10 500                                     600
* Kilocalories (1 Kilocalorie = 4184.0 joules)

For refrigerated chillers operating above 0°C., there shall be at least 415 Calories/Hr. -
meter of perimeter (500 BTU/Hr-ft.), regardless of size.

Definition: "Air/Vapor Interface" - means the surface defined by the top of the solvent
vapor layer within the confines of a vapor degreaser.

Appendix E Emission Limit Conversion Procedure

The following procedure shall be used to convert emission limits expressed as lb
VOC/gallon coating less water and exempt solvents to limits expressed as lb
VOC/gallon solids. This example uses the emission limit of 3.7 lb VOC/gallon coating.

Assume VOC density of the `Presumptive' RACT coating is 7.36 pounds per gallon
because this same value was used to determine the "Presumptive" recommended
RACT emission limits from volume solids data.

(3.7) LB VOC / GAL COATING LESS WATER x l GAL VOC x 100 / 7.36 LB VOC = (50)
                                V0L% VOC

                       100 - (50) V0L% VOC = (50) V0L% SOLIDS

(3.7) LB VOC / GAL COATING LESS H2O x 100 GAL COATING / (50) GAL SOLIDS =
                         (7.4) LB VOC / GAL SOLIDS

See "A Guideline for Surface Coating Calculations" EPA - 340/1-86-0l6 for additional
examples.


                                                                                        117
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

The following table lists equivalent mass VOC/volume solids emission limits for various
coating operations.

   Equivalency Data for Surface Coating Processes (VOC Density = 7.36 lb/gal)

Industrial Finishing Categories       Lb VOC per        Lb VOC per        Kg VOC per
                                      Gallon Coating    Gallon of         Liter of Solids
                                      less water        Solids

Can Industry

Sheet Basecoat (Exterior and          2.8               4.5               0.55
Interior) and over-varnish; two-
piece can exterior (base-coat and
over-varnish)

Two- and three-piece can interior     4.2               9.8               1.19
body spray, two-piece can exterior
end spray or roll coat

Three-piece can side-seam spray       5.5               21.7              2.61

End sealing compound                  3.7               7.4               0.88

Any additional coats                  4.2               9.8               1.19

Coil Coating

Any coat                              2.6               4.0               0.48

Fabric Coating

Fabric coating line                   2.9               4.8               0.58

Vinyl coating line                    3.8               7.9               0.93

Paper Coating

Coating line                          2.9               4.8               0.58

Automotive and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Plant

Primer (electrodeposition)            1.9               2.6               0.31
application, flashoff area and oven

Topcoat application, flashoff area    2.8               4.5               0.55
and oven




                                                                                     118
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

     Equivalency Data for Surface Coating Processes (VOC Density = 7.36 lb/gal)

Industrial Finishing Categories       Lb VOC per        Lb VOC per        Kg VOC per
                                      Gallon Coating    Gallon of         Liter of Solids
                                      less water        Solids

Final repair application, flashoff    4.8               13.8              1.67
area and oven

Metal Furniture

Coating line                          3.0               5.1               0.61

Magnet Wire

Wire coating operation                1.7               2.2               0.26

Large Appliances

Prime, single, or topcoat             2.8               4.5               0.55
application area, flashoff area and
oven

Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products

Air-dried items                       3.5               6.7               0.80

Clear-coated items                    4.3               10.3              1.25

Extreme performance coatings          3.5               6.7               0.80

Other coatings and systems            3.0               5.1               0.61

Plastic Film Coating

Plastic film coating line             2.9               4.8               0.58

PART C         Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.      April 20, 2023
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis




                                                                                     119
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation
Number 22, the Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts
and sections.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such
as the Commission, to review their rules and consider whether the rule is necessary;
whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of the agency or with other federal,
state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain language and is
easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more
or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more
flexibility, reduce regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while
maintaining its benefits; whether the rule is implemented in an efficient and effective
manner, including the requirements for the issuance of permits and licenses; whether a
cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making agency; and whether
the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state or its
residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the
existing rules should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed.

Purpose
The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 25.
The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four regulations: Part B
became Regulation Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number 25; Part D
remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E became Regulation Number 26. The
upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program provisions currently
in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing sector
greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation Number
27.

To assist in tracking the history of the regulatory revisions, associated statements of
basis and purpose, and restructured location, the Commission provides the following
tracking table.




                                                                                         120
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of          Regulation       Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted        7 Section         Section           Section
adoption adoption                           (pre-2019       (numbering           (as of
                                           numbering)          as of            4.2023)
                                                              12.2022)
1995     Dec. 21    Clarify substances     Section II.B.    Part A,            Regulations
                    that are negligibly                     Section II.B.      7 and 24-
                    reactive VOCs.                                             26, Part A
1996     Mar. 21    Revisions related to   Sections         Part A,            Regulations
                    the maintenance        I.A.1.           Sections           7 and 24-
                    demonstration.         through          I.A.1. through     26, Part A
                                           I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;
                                           II.E.            II.E.
1996     Nov. 21    Updated NRVOC          Section XII.     NA                 NA
                    list. Removed
                    control of VOC
                    emissions from dry
                    cleaning facilities
                    using
                    perchloroethylene.
1998     Oct. 15    Revisions specific     Section II.F.    NA                 Regulation
                    to Gates Rubber                                            24-25, Part
                    Company.                                                   A
2001     Jan. 11    Correct                Sections         Part B,            Regulation
                    discrepancies in       III.C.;          Section I.;        24, Part B;
                    posted versus          IX.L.2.c.(1);    Part C,            Regulation
                    adopted provisions.    X.D.2.           Section I.;        25, Part B
                                           through          Part C,            (fkna Part
                                           XI.A.3.          Sections II.       C)
                                                            through III.
2003     Nov. 20    Repealed               Sections         Part A,            Regulations
                    provisions             I.A.2.           Sections           7 and 24-
                    establishing a         through          I.A.1. through     26, Part A
                    procedure for          I.A.4.; II.D.;   I.A.4.; II.D.;
                    granting               II.E.            II.E.
                    exemptions for de
                    minimis sources



                                                                                       121
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation     Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section       Section           Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019     (numbering           (as of
                                          numbering)        as of            4.2023)
                                                           12.2022)
                    and for approving
                    alternative
                    compliance plans.
2004     Mar. 12    Revisions adopted    Sections        Part A,            Regulations
                    in conjunction with  I.A.; I.B.;     Section I.A.;      7 and 24-
                    the early action     XII.; XVI.      Part A,            26, Part A
                    compact ozone                        Section I.B.;
                    action plan –                        Part D,
                    control of emissions                 Section I.;
                    from condensate                      Part E,
                    operation at oil and                 Section I.
                    gas facilities,
                    emissions from
                    internal combustion
                    engines, emissions
                    from gas
                    processing plants,
                    and emissions from
                    oil and gas
                    operations
                    dehydrators.
2004     Dec. 16    Revisions adopted     Sections       Part A,            Regulations
                    in response to EPA    I.A.; II.A.;   Section I.A.;      7 and 24-
                    comments (re          XII.; XVI.;    Part A,            26, Part A
                    practical                            Section II.A.;
                    enforceability) on                   Part D,
                    the ozone action                     Section I.;
                    plan adopted                         Part E,
                    3/2004.                              Section I.
2006     Dec. 17    Expanding oil and     Section XII.   Part D,            Regulation
                    gas condensate                       Section I.         7, Part B
                    tank emission                                           (fkna Part
                    controls.                                               D)



                                                                                   122
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation      Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section        Section           Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019      (numbering           (as of
                                          numbering)         as of            4.2023)
                                                            12.2022)
2006     Dec. 17    Reduce emissions      Sections        Part A,            Regulation
                    from oil and gas      I.A.1.b.;       Section I.A.;      7, Part A
                    operations and        XVII.           Part D.,           and Part B
                    natural gas fired                     Section II. &      (fkna Part
                    engines.                              Part E.            D);
                                                          Section I. (for    Regulation
                                                          engines)           26, Part A
                                                                             and Part B
                                                                             (fkna Part
                                                                             E)
2008     Dec. 12    Expand VOC RACT       Title;          Part A,            Regulation
                    requirements for      Sections I.;    Section I.;        24, Part B;
                    100 tpy sources       II.; VI.        Part A,            Regulation
                    and clarify how       through         Section II.;       25, Part B
                    RACT requirements     XIII.; XVII.;   Part B,            (fkna Part
                    in Regulation         XVIII.; and     Sections IV.       C);
                    Numbers 3 and 7       Appendices      through VI. &      Regulation
                    interact in the       A through F     Part C,            7, Part B
                    ozone                                 Sections I.        (fkna Part
                    nonattainment area.                   through IV. &      D);
                    Make typographical                    Part D,            Regulation
                    and formatting                        Section I.;        26, Part B
                    changes. Revise oil                   Part D,            (fkna Part
                    and gas                               Section II.        E)
                    condensate tank                       and Part E,
                    and pneumatic                         Section I. (for
                    controller                            engines); Part
                    requirements.                         D, Section III.;
                                                          Part A,
                                                          Appendix A. &
                                                          Part B,
                                                          Appendices B
                                                          and C & Part
                                                          C,



                                                                                     123
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation      Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section        Section          Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019      (numbering          (as of
                                          numbering)         as of           4.2023)
                                                            12.2022)
                                                          Appendices D
                                                          and E
                                                          (formerly
                                                          Appendix F)
2011     Jan. 7     Include engine        Outline;        Part A,           Regulation
                    requirements in the   Sections I.;    Section I.;       26, Part B
                    Regional Haze SIP.    XVII.           Part E,           (fkna Part
                                                          Section I.        E)
2012     Dec. 20    Address EPA           Sections II.;   Part A,           Regulation
                    comments on the       XII.; XVII.     Section II.;      7, Part B
                    June 2009                             Part D,           (fkna Part
                    submittal. Revise                     Section I.;       D)
                    state-only                            Part D,
                    requirements for                      Section II.
                    consistency.
2014     Feb. 23    Adopt additional oil Sections II.;    Part A,           Regulation
                    and gas emission     XVII.; XVIII.    Section II.;      7, Part B
                    reduction                             Part D,           (fkna Part
                    requirements –                        Section II.;      D)
                    auto-igniters,                        Part D,
                    expand condensate                     Section III.
                    tank controls, limit
                    storage tank
                    venting, expand
                    dehydrator control,
                    establish leak
                    detection and repair
                    program, limit
                    venting during well
                    maintenance and
                    liquids unloading,
                    expand pneumatic
                    controller



                                                                                   124
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of       Summary of          Regulation      Regulation 7       Rule &
  rule     rule       rule(s) adopted        7 Section        Section          Section
adoption adoption                            (pre-2019      (numbering          (as of
                                            numbering)         as of           4.2023)
                                                              12.2022)
                    requirements.
2016     Nov. 17    Adopt RACT              Sections I.;    Part A,           Regulation
                    requirements for        X.; XII.;       Section I.;       25, Part B
                    industrial cleaning     XIII.; XVI.;    Part C,           (fkna Part
                    solvents,               XIX.            Section II.;      C);
                    lithographic and                        Part D,           Regulation
                    letterpress printing,                   Section I.;       7, Part B
                    and specific major                      Part C,           (fkna Part
                    sources. Including                      Section IV.;      D);
                    existing combustion                     Part C,           Regulation
                    device auto-igniter                     Section V.;       26, Part B
                    and storage tank                        Part E,           (fkna Part
                    inspection                              Section III.      E)
                    requirements in the
                    SIP. Adopting major
                    source combustion
                    equipment
                    combustion process
                    adjustment
                    requirements and
                    incorporate by
                    reference NSPS
                    and NESHAP for
                    specific major
                    sources.
2017     Nov. 16    Adopt provisions        Sections II.;   Part A,           Regulation
                    based on                XII.; XVII.;    Section II.;      7, Part B
                    recommendations         XVIII.          Part D,           (fkna Part
                    in EPA’s Oil and                        Section I.;       D)
                    Gas Control                             Part D,
                    Techniques                              Section II.;
                    Guideline. Revise                       Part D,
                    state-only                              Section III.
                    requirements for



                                                                                     125
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation         Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section           Section           Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019         (numbering           (as of
                                          numbering)            as of            4.2023)
                                                               12.2022)
                    consistency.
2018     July 19    Adopt requirements Sections              Part E,            Regulation
                    for existing major    XVI.; XIX.         Section II.,       26, Part B
                    source boilers,                          Part E,            (fkna Part
                    turbines, lightweight                    Section III.       E)
                    aggregate kilns,
                    glass melting
                    furnaces, engines.
2018     Nov. 15    Adopt requirements    Sections I.;       Part A,            Regulation
                    for major source      II.; VI.; VIII.;   Section I.;        24, Part B;
                    breweries and         IX.; X.; XII.;     Part A,            Regulation
                    wood furniture        XIII.; XVI.;       Section II.;       25, Part B
                    manufacturing.        XVII.; XIX.;       Part B,            (fkna Part
                    Address EPA           XX.; XXI.          Section IV;        C);
                    concerns with                            Part B,            Regulation
                    requirements for                         Section VI.;       7, Part B
                    industrial cleaning                      Part C,            (fkna Part
                    solvents, metal                          Section I.;        D);
                    furniture surface                        Part C,            Regulation
                    coating, and                             Section X.;        26, Part B
                    miscellaneous                            Part D,            (fkna Part
                    metal surface                            Section I.;        E);
                    coating. Updated                         Part C,            Regulation
                    incorporation by                         Section IV.;       23 (fkna
                    reference dates.                         Part C,            Part F)
                                                             Section V.;
                                                             Part D,
                                                             Section II.;
                                                             Part E,
                                                             Section III.;
                                                             Part E,
                                                             Section IV.
                                                             Part F




                                                                                        126
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation    Regulation 7     Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section      Section        Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019    (numbering        (as of
                                          numbering)       as of         4.2023)
                                                          12.2022)
2019     Dec. 19    Reorganized into      Sections I.   (see
                    Parts A through F.    through XX.   reorganization
                    Replaced the SIP      and           cross walk)
                    system-wide           Appendices
                    condensate tank       A through F
                    control program
                    with a fixed
                    threshold storage
                    tank control
                    program. Increased
                    state-only, state-
                    wide storage tank
                    controls. Adopted
                    oil and gas storage
                    tank measurement
                    system,
                    hydrocarbon liquids
                    loadout, leak
                    detection and
                    repair, well
                    plugging, and
                    pneumatic
                    controller
                    requirements.
                    Adopted an oil and
                    gas transmission
                    and storage
                    segment methane
                    intensity program.
                    Adopted an annual
                    oil and gas
                    inventory program.
                    Expanded SIP
                    requirements to 50
                    tpy sources.


                                                                              127
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of      Summary of         Regulation   Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule      rule(s) adopted       7 Section     Section           Section
adoption adoption                          (pre-2019   (numbering           (as of
                                          numbering)      as of            4.2023)
                                                         12.2022)
                    Aligned gasoline
                    tank truck testing
                    requirements with
                    federal
                    requirements as
                    SIP clean-up.
2020     Sept. 23   Adopted                            Part D,            Regulation
                    requirements for                   Sections II.;      7, Part B
                    natural gas fired                  IV.; V.; VI.;      (fkna Part
                    1,000 horsepower                   Part E,            D);
                    engines. Adopted                   Section I.         Regulation
                    flowback vessel                                       26, Part B
                    control                                               (fkna Part
                    requirements and                                      E)
                    pre- and early-
                    production
                    monitoring
                    requirements.
                    Expanded
                    hydrocarbon liquids
                    loadout
                    requirements to
                    class II disposal
                    well facilities.
2020     Dec. 18    Adopted                            Part D,            Regulation
                    requirements for                   Section II.;       7, Part B
                    major source foam                  Part E,            (fkna Part
                    manufacturing,                     Sections II.;      D);
                    boilers, turbines,                 IV.; V.            Regulation
                    landfill and biogas                                   26, Part B
                    fired engines, and                                    (fkna Part
                    wood surface                                          E)
                    coating.




                                                                                 128
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of       Summary of         Regulation   Regulation 7        Rule &
  rule     rule       rule(s) adopted       7 Section     Section           Section
adoption adoption                           (pre-2019   (numbering           (as of
                                           numbering)      as of            4.2023)
                                                          12.2022)
2021     Feb. 18    Adopted non-                        Part D,            Regulation
                    emitting pneumatic                  Section III.       7, Part B
                    controller                                             (fkna Part
                    requirements for                                       D)
                    new facilities and
                    existing pneumatic
                    controller retrofit
                    requirements for
                    existing facilities.
2021     July 16    Adopted                             Part C,            Regulation
                    requirements for                    Section I.;        25, Part B
                    metal parts surface                 Part D,            (fkna Part
                    coating and major                   Section III.;      C);
                    source process                      Part E,            Regulation
                    heaters.                            Section II.        7, Part B
                                                                           (fkna Part
                                                                           D);
                                                                           Regulation
                                                                           26, Part B
                                                                           (fkna Part
                                                                           E)
2021     Dec. 17    Adopted SIP                         Part D,           Regulation
                    revisions to address                Sections I., II., 7, Part B
                    EPA concerns with                   III., V., VI.     (fkna Part
                    the EPA Oil and                                       D)
                    Gas CTG. Adopted
                    oil and gas
                    combustion device
                    performance testing
                    requirements.
                    Expanded
                    reciprocating
                    compressor rod
                    packing, leak


                                                                                  129
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of       Summary of         Regulation   Regulation 7         Rule &
  rule     rule       rule(s) adopted       7 Section     Section            Section
adoption adoption                           (pre-2019   (numbering            (as of
                                           numbering)      as of             4.2023)
                                                          12.2022)
                    detection and
                    repair, and
                    pneumatic
                    controller
                    requirements at
                    natural gas
                    processing plants.
                    Expanded leak
                    detection and
                    repair, separator,
                    and well
                    maintenance
                    requirements.
                    Adopted pigging
                    and blowdown
                    requirements.
2022     Dec. 15    Adopted                             Part E,             Regulation
                    requirements for                    Sections I., II.,   24, Part B
                    major source                        III., VI., VII.,    (fkna Part
                    combustion                          and VIII., Part     B);
                    equipment, wood                     C., Sections        Regulation
                    coating, solvent                    I., II., and IV.,   25, Part B
                    use, bakery                         and Part D,         (fkna Part
                    operation, digital                  Section II.;        C);
                    printing, poultry                   Part D,             Regulation
                    waste processing,                   Sections II., ;     7, Part B
                    oil stabilization                   Part A,             (fkna Part
                    facilities, class II                Sections I.         D);
                    injection well                      and II.; Part       Regulation
                    facilities, and                     C, Section I.;      26, Part B
                    industrial waste;                   and Part B,         (fkna Part
                    included state only                 Section IV.         E)
                    provisions as SIP
                    strengthening



                                                                                   130
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission


 Year of  Date of          Summary of         Regulation     Regulation 7      Rule &
  rule     rule          rule(s) adopted       7 Section       Section         Section
adoption adoption                              (pre-2019     (numbering         (as of
                                              numbering)        as of          4.2023)
                                                               12.2022)
                       measures; clarified
                       the applicability of
                       requirements to
                       newly classified
                       ozone
                       nonattainment
                       areas; included
                       requirements for
                       motor vehicle
                       materials and
                       automotive
                       coatings; expanded
                       gasoline tank truck
                       testing
                       requirements.


The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout the regulations.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.
Additional Considerations

These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from
the requirement of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:
(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted
by interested parties.



                                                                                      131
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
implement and comply with the rules.

(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction
in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.
(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation
in the most cost-effective manner.
II.     December 18-20, 2024 (Revisions to Part A, Section II.C.2. and Part B,
        Sections I.L.6., I.O.5., and I.P.)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

The Commission adopted revisions in response to EPA actions on Colorado’s state
implementation plan (SIP) submissions. Specifically, a disapproval related to
recordkeeping and reporting requirements and a disapproval of contingency measures
for the serious SIP under the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard
(NAAQS). See 88 Fed. Reg. 29827 (May 9, 2023); 88 Fed. Reg. 76676 (Nov. 7, 2023).




                                                                                        132
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), directs the Commission to promulgate
such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration set forth in §
25-7-102 and that are necessary for the proper implementation and administration of
Article 7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include essentially any gas emitted into
the atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, NOx, methane and other hydrocarbons)
and provides the Commission broad authority to regulate air pollutants. § 105(1)(a)(I)
directs the Commission to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS.
§ 25-7-106 provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. § 25-7-106 also authorizes the Commission to
promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state, specified areas or
zones, or a specified class of pollution. § 25-7-106(6) further authorizes the Commission
to require owners and operators of any air pollution source to monitor, record, and
report information. §§ 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2) of the Act authorize the Commission to
promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical air pollution controls for
significant sources and categories of sources and emission control regulations
pertaining to nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 25 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Periodic Reporting

To address EPA’s concern with the lack of specified reporting and to avoid federal
sanctions the Commission included requirements for major sources to include
compliance demonstration information with the semi-annual reporting requirements in
the operating permit, specifically wood coating operations. The Commission also
included requirements for metal coating operations, which are a VOC source category
subject to a CTG published by EPA and upon which the adopted provisions, including
the recordkeeping without corresponding fixed frequency reporting recommendations,
are based, to submit annual or semi-annual reports documenting compliance with
coatings VOC content limits. See 88 Fed. Reg. 29827 (May 9, 2023) (EPA’s limited
disapproval, discussing EPA’s perceived lack of periodic reporting sufficient to
determine compliance by regulated entities). The semi-annual reports for major sources
are intended to align with the sources’ operating permit reporting requirements.




                                                                                        133
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Contingency Measures

The Commission also updated the contingency measures adopted in 2022 in Section
I.P. concerning automotive VOC content limits. These provisions were adopted as
contingency measures for the moderate SIP under the 2015 ozone NAAQS. The
revisions were adopted to include these contingency measures in the Serious SIP under
the 2008 Ozone NAAQS, in response to EPA’s disapproval. Under the federal Clean Air
Act § 172(c)(9), nonattainment area SIPs must provide for the implementation of
specific measures, termed contingency measures, if an area fails to attain the NAAQS
or to demonstrate RFP by the required deadline. The Commission had adopted
contingency measure for the Serious SIP in 2020 with anticipated future year emission
reductions in VOC and NOx from on-road mobile sources. However, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision in January 2021
interpreting the CAA requirements for contingency measures to require such measures
be prospective and conditional, in contrast to previous EPA interpretation and
corresponding state implementation. See 88 Fed. Reg. at 54978 discussing Sierra Club
v EPA. Therefore, EPA disapproved Colorado’s Serious SIP contingency measures,
finding the measures did not satisfy the CAA requirements as interpreted by the DC
Circuit. The Commission now includes the automotive VOC content limits and
associated work practices in Regulation Number 25, Part B, Section I.P. as contingency
measures for the 2008 Ozone NAAQS serious SIP. These requirements impact any
person who supplies, sells, offers for sale, distributes for sale, or manufacturers for sale
in Colorado certain products after a finding by EPA of failure to attain the 2008 ozone
NAAQS by the serious ozone attainment date. The Commission adopted the
contingency measures in order to ensure emission reductions within a reasonable
timeframe after submission to EPA for approval of the measures.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout the regulations.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.




                                                                                        134
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone nonattainment area
requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado
to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission adopted
certain revisions to Regulation Number 25 to satisfy Colorado’s nonattainment area
obligations and further achieve reductions of ozone precursor emissions. These
revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS, the Commission determines:

(I)     The revisions to Regulation Number 25 address wood coating, metal coating,
        and automotive coatings operations. NESHAP JJ, NESHAP DDDD, NESHAP
        MMMM, NESHAP QQQQ, NESHAP XXXXXX and EPA’s National Volatile
        Organic Compound Emission Standards for Automobile Refinish Coatings at 40
        CFR Part 59 Subpart B may also apply to the above described operations.
        However, the revisions to Regulation Number 25 apply on a broader basis.

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
(III)   The CAA establishes the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado
        to develop SIP revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone
        NAAQS was not determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado.
        Similarly, EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and
        data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns. In addition, Colorado cannot rely
        exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or federally enforceable NSPS or
        NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s ozone nonattainment area RACT obligations.
        Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable provisions into its SIP directly, as the
        Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower 2015
        ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established Colorado’s SIP RACT implementation deadlines. There is
        no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.



                                                                                          135
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 25 address EPA’s May 9, 2023, disapproval.
        These sections currently address emissions from wood coating and metal
        coating operations, while allowing for continued growth of Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 25 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
       Implementation Plan; thus potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
       This outcome may subject others to increased costs.

(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 25 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 25. The revisions do not expand upon emission reduction requirements
        already applicable but minimally add additional reporting requirements.

(XI)    As set forth in past Economic Impact Analyses, the revisions to Regulation
        Number 25 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help
        to attain the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in
        sanctions.

Findings of Fact
To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:
(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.



                                                                                       136
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

III.    November 19-21, 2025 (Revisions to Part B, Section I.Q. and Repeal of Part
        B, Section IV.C.)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act (State Air Act or the Act), § 25-7-101,
C.R.S., et seq., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural
Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1.

Basis

On October 7, 2022, EPA reclassified the Denver Metro/North Front Range (DM/NFR)
to severe for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard of 75 parts
per billion (ppb) (2008 ozone NAAQS). See 86 Fed. Reg. 60926. Separately, on July
24, 2024, EPA reclassified the (DM/NFR) and northern Weld County ozone
nonattainment area to serious for the 2015 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standard of 70 parts per billion (ppb) (2015 ozone NAAQS). See 89 Fed. Reg. 59832.
To ensure progress towards attainment of the ozone NAAQS and respond to Colorado’s
requirements under the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Commission adopted revisions to
include reasonably available control technology (RACT) for major sources of volatile
organic compounds (VOC) in the nonattainment areas, specifically adopting
requirements for aerospace coatings.




                                                                                        137
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of Article 7. The Act broadly defines air pollutant to include
essentially any gas emitted into the atmosphere (and, as such, includes VOC, nitrogen
oxides (NOx), methane and other hydrocarbons) and provides the Commission broad
authority to regulate air pollutants. Section 105(1)(a)(I), C.R.S., directs the Commission
to adopt a state implementation plan (SIP) to attain the NAAQS. Section 25-7-106,
C.R.S., provides the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air
quality program and promulgating such combination of regulations as may be necessary
or desirable to carry out that program. Section 25-7-106, C.R.S., also authorizes the
Commission to promulgate emission control regulations applicable to the entire state,
specified areas or zones, or a specified class of pollution. Section 25-7-106(6), C.R.S.,
further authorizes the Commission to require owners and operators of any air pollution
source to monitor, record, and report information. Sections 25-7-109(1)(a) and (2) of the
Act authorize the Commission to promulgate regulations requiring effective and practical
air pollution controls for significant sources and categories of sources and emission
control regulations pertaining to NOx and hydrocarbons.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to
Regulation Number 25 and includes the technological and scientific rationale for the
adoption of the revisions.

Due to the reclassifications to serious and severe, Colorado must submit revisions to its
SIP to address the CAA’s ozone nonattainment area requirements, as set forth in CAA
§§ 172, 182(c), 182(d), and the final SIP Requirements Rules (83 Fed. Reg. 62998
(Dec. 6, 2018)). SIPs must include provisions that require the implementation of RACT
for major sources of VOC and/or NOx (i.e., sources that emit or have the potential to
emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more in serious nonattainment areas and 25 tpy or more
in severe nonattainment areas) and for each category of VOC sources covered by a
Control Technique Guideline (CTG) for which Colorado has sources in the
nonattainment area.




                                                                                      138
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

Therefore, to address nonattainment area requirements under CAA § 182(c), the
Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 25 to include RACT requirements
in Colorado’s ozone SIP for 25 tpy VOC major stationary aerospace coating operations
in a new Part A, Section I.Q. The Commission adopted aerospace coatings
requirements that are based on EPA’s Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions
from Coating Operations at Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Operations (1997),
which also recommends a 25 tpy VOC applicability threshold. These requirements
include VOC content limits on coatings, work practices, recordkeeping, and reporting.

The Commission also repealed requirements for major stationary digital printing
operations in Part A, Section IV.C. These provisions were adopted in 2022 for major
sources (25 tpy) located in the 8-hour ozone control area. The subject sources are no
longer a major stationary source and, therefore, these SIP-RACT provisions are no
longer required.

Lastly, the Commission adopted clean-up revisions in Part A, Section I.A.5.d. to
correspond to the revisions made to update Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section V.,
Certification of Trading of Emission Reduction Credits Offset and Netting Transactions.

The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections
throughout the regulations.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.

Additional Considerations

Colorado must revise Colorado’s ozone SIP to address the ozone nonattainment area
requirements. The CAA does not expressly address all of the provisions adopted by the
Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado
to develop a SIP adequate to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commission adopted
certain revisions to Regulation Number 25 to satisfy Colorado’s nonattainment area
obligations and further achieve reductions of ozone precursor emissions. These
revisions do not exceed or differ from the federal act due to state flexibility in
determining what control strategies to implement to reduce emissions. However, where
the proposal may differ from federal rules under the federal act, in accordance with §
25-7-110.5(5)(b), C.R.S., the Commission determines:
(I)   The revisions to Regulation Number 25 address aerospace coatings operations.
      National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) GG may
      also apply to these operations. However, the revisions to Regulation Number 25
      apply on a broader basis.




                                                                                    139
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

(II)    The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
        largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.

(III)   The CAA establishes the ozone NAAQS and requires Colorado to develop SIP
        revisions that will ensure attainment of the NAAQS. The ozone NAAQS was not
        determined taking into account concerns unique to Colorado. Similarly, EPA
        develops New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) or NESHAP considering
        national information and data, not Colorado specific issues or concerns. In
        addition, Colorado cannot rely exclusively on a federally enforceable permit or
        federally enforceable NSPS or NESHAP to satisfy Colorado’s ozone
        nonattainment area RACT obligations. Instead, Colorado can adopt applicable
        provisions into its SIP directly, as the Commission has done here.

(IV)    In addition to the 2008 NAAQS, Colorado must also comply with the lower 2015
        ozone NAAQS. These current revisions may improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply with new requirements needed to attain the lower NAAQS
        insofar as RACT analyses and efforts conducted to support the revisions adopted
        by the Commission may prevent or reduce the need to conduct additional RACT
        analyses for the more stringent NAAQS.

(V)     EPA has established Colorado’s SIP RACT implementation deadlines. There is
        no timing issue that might justify changing the time frame for implementation of
        federal requirements.

(VI)    The revisions to Regulation Number 25 address emissions from major stationary
        source aerospace coating operations, while allowing for continued growth of
        Colorado’s industry.

(VII)   The revisions to Regulation Number 25 establish reasonable equity for owners
        and operators subject to these rules by providing the same standards for similarly
        situated and sized sources.

(VIII) If EPA does not approve Colorado’s SIP, EPA may promulgate a Federal
       Implementation Plan; thus, potentially determining RACT for Colorado’s sources.
       This outcome may subject others to increased costs.
(IX)    Where necessary, the revisions to Regulation Number 25 include minimal
        monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that correlate, where
        possible, to similar federal or state requirements.

(X)     Demonstrated technology is available to comply with the revisions to Regulation
        Number 25. The revisions do not expand upon emission reduction requirements
        already applicable but minimally add additional reporting requirements.




                                                                                          140
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

(XI)    As set forth in past Economic Impact Analyses, the revisions to Regulation
        Number 25 will reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner.

(XII)   Alternative rules could also provide reductions in ozone, VOC, and NOx to help
        to attain the NAAQS. However, a no action alternative would very likely result in
        sanctions.

Findings of Fact

To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
determination that:
(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of NOx and VOC emissions.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary
        reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility.

(V)     The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of
        regulation in the most cost-effective manner.




                                                                                        141
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                     5 CCR 1001-29
Air Quality Control Commission

________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History

New rule eff. 06/14/2023.
Rules Part A II.C.2, Part B I.L.6, I.O.6, I.P.1.b, I.P.3, I.P.4.b, I.P.7, I.P.8, Part C II eff.
      02/14/2025.

Rules Part A II.A.18, Part B I.A.1, I.A.3.a, I.A.5.d, I.A.5.d(iv), I.A.11, I.A.12.a(iv), I.L.2.d,
      I.N.7, I.Q, II.D.2.a, II.E.3.b(iii)(B), II.F.5.c(i)(B), IV.B.5.c(iii)(B), Part C III eff.
      01/14/2026. Part B IV.C repealed eff. 01/14/2026.




                                                                                                  142
