CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    Department of Public Health and Environment

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 30 TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS

    5 CCR 1001-34

    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    Outline of Regulation

    PART A        General Provisions for Toxic Air Contaminants

           I.     Definitions

    PART B        Priority Toxic Air Contaminants

           I.     Identification of priority toxic air contaminants

           II.    Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks

           III.   Emission Control Measures

                  III.A. Benzene

                  III.B. Chromium compounds, hexavalent

                  III.C. Ethylene oxide

                  III.D. Formaldehyde

                  III.E. Hydrogen sulfide

                  III.F. Non-Categorical Existing Stationary Source Requirements

    PART C        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

    Appendices, by Part

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 24-4-103(12.5), any materials
    incorporated by reference are available for public inspection during normal business
    hours, or copies may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control
    Commission, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. Any
    federal material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
    Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by
    reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any
    later amendments.



                                                                                           1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

PART A        General Provisions for Toxic Air Contaminants

I.     General Provisions

       I.A.   Definitions

              I.A.1. “Hazardous air pollutant” (HAP) has the meaning provided in
                     section 25-7-103(13), C.R.S.

              I.A.2. “Hazard quotient” (HQ) means a metric to estimate the potential for
                     non-cancer health hazards to occur from exposure to a toxic air
                     contaminant with available Reference Concentrations (RfCs). HQ
                     represents the ratio of an air concentration over the RfC. HQs
                     above 1 mean that the air concentration exceeds the non-cancer
                     RfC.

              I.A.3. “Inhalation unit risk” (IUR) means an estimate of the increased
                     cancer risk from continuous inhalation of a specific toxic air
                     contaminant at a concentration of 1 μg/m3 for a lifetime.

              I.A.4. “Chronic health-protective benchmark” means, for purposes of this
                     Regulation Number 30, a health-based standard, as defined in
                     section 25-7-109.5(1)(e), C.R.S., and informed by the
                     considerations in section 25-7-109.5(6)(b), C.R.S., for each PTAC
                     identified by the Commission, representing an ambient
                     concentration below which adverse health effects are unlikely to
                     occur from exposure only to the individual, relevant PTAC.

              I.A.5. “Priority toxic air contaminant” (PTAC) has the meaning provided in
                     section 25-7-109.5(1)(f), C.R.S.

              I.A.6. “Reference concentration” (RfC) means an estimate (with
                     uncertainty spanning perhaps an order of magnitude) of a
                     continuous inhalation exposure concentration to a specific toxic air
                     contaminant that is likely to be without risk of deleterious effects to
                     people (including sensitive subgroups) during a lifetime of exposure
                     to that individual air contaminant.

PART B        Priority Toxic Air Contaminants

I.A.   As of January 17, 2025, the Commission identifies the following five priority toxic
       air contaminants, as also reflected in Appendix A.

       I.A.1. Benzene

       I.A.2. Chromium Compounds, Hexavalent

       I.A.3. Ethylene Oxide



                                                                                           2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

       I.A.4. Formaldehyde

       I.A.5. Hydrogen Sulfide

II.    Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks

       II.A.   The Commission proposes the chronic health-protective benchmarks in
               Appendix B for each PTAC identified in Appendix A. The chronic health-
               protective benchmarks will take effect upon General Assembly approval.

III.   Emission Control Measures

The following sections establish emission control regulations for each of the priority
toxic air contaminants identified in Section I. of this Part B. Each priority toxic air
contaminant section contains relevant applicability, exemptions, definitions, emission
controls or limitations, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

       III.A. Benzene

               III.A.1. Emission limitations

                          III.A.1.a.     An owner or operator of equipment subject to
                                  Regulation Number 24, Part B, Section VI.C. (Petroleum
                                  Refinery Equipment Leaks) must comply with the equipment
                                  leaks requirements and associated monitoring,
                                  recordkeeping, and reporting requirements therein.

       III.B. Chromium Compounds, Hexavalent

               III.B.1.         Applicability

                          III.B.1.a.     An owner or operator of a stationary source with
                                  decorative chromium electroplating operations that
                                  commences construction before June 14, 2026, and uses or
                                  emits hexavalent chromium (chromium compounds,
                                  hexavalent).

                          III.B.1.b.     An owner or operator of a stationary source with
                                  functional chromium plating operations that uses or emits
                                  hexavalent chromium (chromium compounds, hexavalent).

                          III.B.1.c.     An owner or operator of a stationary source with
                                  decorative chromium plating operations that commences
                                  construction or is modified, where the modification increases
                                  use of hexavalent chromium, on or after June 14, 2026.

               III.B.2.         Exemptions




                                                                                              3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.B.2.a.     Equipment or activities that are not required to be
                            reported on TAC reports under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                            Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.
                            are not subject to the requirements in Section III.B.

         III.B.3.          Definitions

                    III.B.3.a.      “Building enclosure” means a permanent building or
                            physical structure, or portion of a building or physical
                            structure, that is enclosed with a floor, walls, and a ceiling or
                            roof such that airflow is limited from the enclosure to the
                            exterior. This can include the enclosed portion of the building
                            itself or an enclosure within a building that is enclosed such
                            that airflow is limited from the enclosure to the rest of the
                            building. The building enclosure may have limited building
                            enclosure openings to allow access for people, vehicles,
                            equipment, or parts.

                    III.B.3.b.     “Chromic acid anodizing operations” means the
                            electrolytic process by which an oxide layer is produced on
                            the surface of a base material for functional purposes (e.g.,
                            corrosion resistance or electrical insulation) using a chromic
                            acid solution. In chromic acid anodizing, the part to be
                            anodized acts as the anode in the electrical circuit, and the
                            chromic acid solution, with a concentration typically ranging
                            from 50 to 100 grams per liter (g/L), serves as the
                            electrolyte.

                    III.B.3.c.     “Chromium plating operations” means the process of
                            performing chrome plating, including: decorative chrome
                            plating, hard chrome plating, and chromic acid anodizing.

                    III.B.3.d.      “Decorative chromium plating operations” means the
                            process by which a thin layer of chromium (typically 0.003 to
                            2.5 micrometers) is electrodeposited on a Base Material to
                            provide a bright surface with wear and tarnish resistance. In
                            this process, the base material serves as the cathode in the
                            electrolytic cell and the solution serves as the electrolyte.
                            Typical current density applied during this process ranges
                            from 540 to 2,400 amperes per square meter (Amp/m2) for
                            total plating times ranging between 0.5 to 5 minutes.

                    III.B.3.e.     “Functional chrome plating” means hard chromium
                            plating and chromic acid anodizing operations.

                    III.B.3.f.      “Hard chrome plating” means a process by which a
                            thick layer of chromium (typically greater than 1.0




                                                                                           4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                           micrometers) is electrodeposited on a base material to
                           provide a surface with functional properties such as wear
                           resistance, a low coefficient of friction, hardness, and
                           corrosion resistance. In this process, the base material
                           serves as the cathodes in the electrolytic cell and the
                           solution serves as the electrolyte. The hard chrome plating
                           process is performed at current densities typically ranging
                           from 1,600 to 6,500 amp/m2 for total plating times ranging
                           from 20 minutes to 36 hours depending upon the desired
                           plate thickness. This definition also includes continuous
                           passivation.

                    III.B.3.g.      “High efficiency particulate arrestor (HEPA) filter”
                            means filter(s) rated at 99.97 percent or more efficient in
                            collecting particle sizes 0.3 micrometers.

                    III.B.3.h.    “HEPA vacuum” means a vacuum that is both
                            designed for the use of and fitted with a HEPA filter.

                    III.B.3.i.     “Protected opening method” means any of the
                            methods listed below that restricts air from escaping the
                            building enclosure including a door that automatically closes;
                            overlapping plastic strip curtains that cover the entire
                            opening; vestibule; or airlock system.

                    III.B.3.j.     “Sensitive receptor” means any residence including
                            private homes, condominiums, apartments, or living
                            quarters; education resources such as schools; daycare
                            centers; or health care facilities such as hospitals or
                            retirement or nursing homes. A sensitive receptor includes a
                            long-term care hospital, hospice, prison, or dormitory or
                            similar live-in housing facility.

                    III.B.3.k.    “Stationary source” has the meaning set forth in
                            Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.52.

         III.B.4.          Emission limitations and work practices

                    III.B.4.a.     No owner or operator of a stationary source with
                            operations as described in Section III.B.1.c,, may use
                            hexavalent chromium for decorative chrome plating
                            operations.

                    III.B.4.b.     Beginning June 14, 2026, or upon commencement of
                            operation if such date is after June 14, 2026, owners or
                            operators of stationary sources with operations as described
                            in Section III.B.1.a, or Section III.B.1.b, that emit hexavalent




                                                                                           5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                   chromium must comply with the following housekeeping
                   practices.

                   III.B.4.b.(i) Chromium acid powder or flakes or other
                           substances that may contain hexavalent chromium
                           must be stored in a closed container in an enclosed
                           storage area.

                   III.B.4.b.(ii) Chromium acid powder or flakes must be
                           transported from the enclosed storage area to the
                           chrome electroplating or anodizing bath(s) in a closed
                           container.

                   III.B.4.b.(iii) Any liquid or solid material that may contain
                           hexavalent chromium that is spilled must be cleaned
                           up using one or more of the methods listed in
                           Sections III.B.4.b.(iv)(A) through III.B.4.b.(iv)(E) or
                           contained within one hour after being spilled.

                   III.B.4.b.(iv) Surfaces within the enclosed storage area,
                           floors and other surfaces in the chrome plating or
                           anodizing tank(s) process area, or any other surface
                           potentially contaminated with hexavalent chromium
                           must be cleaned at least once every seven (7) days
                           with one or more of the following methods. Floors
                           within a 20-foot radius of any buffing, grinding, or
                           polishing workstation(s) must be cleaned at the end of
                           each day on days when buffing, grinding, or polishing
                           are conducted using one or more of the following
                           methods.

                          III.B.4.b.(iv)(A)    HEPA vacuuming.

                          III.B.4.b.(iv)(B)    Hand wiping with a damp cloth.

                          III.B.4.b.(iv)(C)    Wet mopping.

                          III.B.4.b.(iv)(D)    Wet washing.

                          III.B.4.b.(iv)(E)    Low pressure spray nozzle (i.e.,
                                  water spray nozzle capable of regulating water
                                  pressure such that it does not exceed 35
                                  pounds per square inch).

                   III.B.4.b.(v) Fluid containing hexavalent chromium that
                           adheres to parts when they are removed from the
                           tank must be minimized by adhering to the following
                           best management practices.



                                                                                     6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.B.4.b.(v)(A)       For automated lines, drip trays or
                                  other containment devices must be installed
                                  between chrome plating tanks so that the liquid
                                  does not fall through the space between tanks.

                          III.B.4.b.(v)(B)       For non-automated lines, each
                                  part that is dipped in the chrome plating tank
                                  for the purposes of chrome plating must be
                                  handled so that chromic acid does not drip
                                  outside of the tank, unless the liquid is
                                  captured by a drip tray or other containment
                                  device. Drip trays or containment devices must
                                  capture and return the liquid to the tanks and
                                  be cleaned weekly such that there is no
                                  accumulation of visible dust or residue on the
                                  drip tray or other containment device.

                   III.B.4.b.(vi) Buffing, grinding, or polishing areas:

                          III.B.4.b.(vi)(A)        Buffing, grinding, or polishing
                                  areas must be separated from the
                                  electroplating or anodizing operation by a
                                  physical barrier (e.g., plastic strip curtains) that
                                  restricts air flow out of these areas.

                          III.B.4.b.(vi)(B)      Beginning on or after June 14,
                                  2028, or upon commencement of operation if
                                  such date is after June 14, 2026, buffing,
                                  grinding, or polishing areas shall be conducted
                                  within a building enclosure that meets the
                                  requirements in Section III.B.4.c. for as long as
                                  the facility continues to use hexavalent
                                  chromium.

                   III.B.4.b.(vii) Chromium or chromium-containing wastes
                           must be stored, disposed of, recovered, or recycled
                           using practices that do not lead to fugitive emissions.
                           Containers with chromium-containing waste must be
                           kept closed at all times, except when being filled or
                           emptied, and stored in an enclosed storage area.

                   III.B.4.b.(viii) Beginning December 14, 2026, parts being
                           chrome plated or equipment that was previously in a
                           chrome plating tank cannot be spray rinsed unless the
                           parts or equipment are fully lowered inside a tank
                           such that the liquid from the spray rinsing is captured
                           inside the tank. If the part cannot be fully lowered




                                                                                     7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                            inside the tank for spray rinsing, splash guards made
                            of non-permeable and durable material (e.g., metal,
                            plastic) must be installed at the tank to minimize
                            overspray and ensure that any hexavalent chromium
                            laden liquid is captured and returned to the tank
                            where parts are sprayed to remove excess chromic
                            acid to ensure that any hexavalent chromium laden
                            liquid is returned to the tank. Splash guards must be
                            cleaned weekly.

                     III.B.4.b.(ix) Beginning December 14, 2026, compressed air
                             cleaning or drying operations cannot be performed
                             within 15 feet of any chrome plating tank(s), unless a
                             barrier separates the compressed air cleaning or
                             drying operation from the tank(s). A tank wall may
                             function as the barrier provided the parts being air
                             cleaned or dried are below the lip of the tank.

              III.B.4.c.     Beginning June 14, 2028, or upon commencement of
                      operation if such date is after June 14, 2026, owners or
                      operators of stationary sources with operations described in
                      Section III.B.1.a., or Section III.B.1.b. that emit hexavalent
                      chromium must comply with, at a minimum, the following
                      building enclosure requirements.

                     III.B.4.c.(i) All hexavalent chromium plating or anodizing
                             tanks must be operated only within a building
                             enclosure.

                     III.B.4.c.(ii) All building enclosure openings that are open
                             to the exterior and on opposite ends of the building
                             enclosure from each other must be equipped with a
                             protected opening method and cannot be
                             simultaneously open except during the passage of
                             vehicles, equipment, or people through the building
                             enclosure opening.

                     III.B.4.c.(iii) All building enclosure openings that directly
                             face any sensitive receptor that is located within 1,000
                             feet, as measured from the property line of the
                             sensitive receptor to the building enclosure opening,
                             must be equipped with a protected opening method
                             and remain closed except during the passage of
                             vehicles, equipment, or people through the building
                             enclosure opening.




                                                                                    8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

               III.B.4.d.      Beginning December 14, 2026, or upon
                       commencement of operation if such date is after June 14,
                       2026, owners or operators of stationary sources with
                       operations described in Sections III.B.1.a. or III.B.1.b., must
                       use the following list of approved chemical fume
                       suppressants and adhere to the associated surface tension
                       limits of such approved chemical fume suppressant.

          Table 1. Approved Chemical Fume Suppressants and Surface Tensions

                                                 Stalagmometer       Tensiometer
          Chemical Fume
                                                 Measured            Measured
          Suppressant
                             Application         Surface Tension     Surface Tension
          and
                                                 (dynes/             (dynes/
          Manufacturer
                                                 centimeter)         centimeter)
          Fumetrol 21 LF2®
                             Hard plating        ≤ 30                ≤ 27
          Atotech, U.S.A
          Dicolloy CRPF®
                             Decorative          ≤ 32                ≤ 29
          ProCom LLC         plating and
                             chromic acid
                             anodizing
          HCA-8.4®
                          Decorative             ≤ 25                ≤ 22
          Hunter Chemical plating and
          LLC             chromic acid
                          anodizing
          HCA-8.4®
                          Hard plating           ≤ 33                ≤ 30
          Hunter Chemical
          LLC
          Macuplex STR
          NPFX®           Decorative             ≤ 32                ≤ 30
                          plating and
          MacDermid       chromic acid
          Enthone         anodizing
          Industrial
          Solutions




                                                                                         9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


                            III.B.4.d.(i) Additional chemical fume suppressants not
                                    listed in Table 1 that have been approved by the
                                    California Air Resources Board (CARB) under the
                                    Innovative Products provisions in division 3, chapter
                                    1, subchapter 7.5, Section 93102.8 (Jan 1, 2024) of
                                    Title 17 of the California Code of Regulations are
                                    approved for use, provided the suppressants are used
                                    in an application that is consistent with CARB’s
                                    approval and that the stationary source maintains the
                                    surface tensions demonstrated as part of that
                                    approval.

         III.B.5.           Performance testing

                    III.B.5.a.      Beginning April 15, 2027, or upon commencement of
                            operation if such date is after June 14, 2026, owners or
                            operators of stationary sources with operations described in
                            Sections III.B.1.a. or III.B.1.b., that emit hexavalent
                            chromium must complete a performance test, according to
                            the following requirements.

                            III.B.5.a.(i) Owners or operators must follow the
                                    performance testing requirements in 40 CFR 63.344
                                    (February 27, 2014).

         III.B.6.          Recordkeeping. For stationary sources with operations
                    described in Sections III.B.1.a. or III.B.1.b, the following records
                    must be kept for a period of five (5) years and made available to the
                    Division upon request.

                    III.B.6.a.   Records demonstrating compliance with the best
                            management practices in Sections III.B.4.b. through III.B.4.d.

                    III.B.6.b.     Records demonstrating compliance with surface
                            tension limits in Table 1 or in CARB’s approval under
                            Section III.B.4.d.

                    III.B.6.c.     Records of any submitted reports in Section III.B.7.

         III.B.7.          Reporting. The following reporting must be submitted in a
                    Division-approved format.

                    III.B.7.a.     Submit the results of the performance test according
                            to the procedures in 40 CFR 63.347 (February 27, 2014).

                    III.B.7.b.       Beginning on June 30, 2028, and annually thereafter,
                            facilities identified in Sections III.B.1.a. and III.B.1.b. of this



                                                                                             10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                            Part B that operated in the prior calendar year must submit
                            an annual compliance report that covers the previous
                            calendar year. The report must include the following:

                            III.B.7.b.(i) Company information: Include the facility
                                    name, address, owner or operator name, and the
                                    measured distance to the property boundary of the
                                    nearest sensitive receptor. Measurements must be
                                    rounded to the nearest foot. For facilities without an
                                    add-on air pollution control device, measure from the
                                    edge of the chrome plating tank nearest to the
                                    receptor. For facilities with an add-on air pollution
                                    control device, measure from the centroid of the
                                    stack.

                            III.B.7.b.(ii) Any deviations to the specified surface tension
                                    limits listed either in Table 1 of Section III.B. or the
                                    surface tension limits for an approved alternative
                                    fume suppressant, including the date of the
                                    occurrence, the duration of the occurrence, the cause
                                    of the occurrence, the amount of excess emissions,
                                    and a copy of the record(s) where the deviation was
                                    recorded.

                            III.B.7.b.(iii) A certification verifying the facility has followed
                                    all requirements applicable to their source as listed in
                                    III.B. If the requirements were not followed, include an
                                    explanation of the reasons for the deviations, and a
                                    copy of any applicable records associated with the
                                    deviation.

                            III.B.7.b.(iv) A certification that the procedures in the facility
                                    operations and maintenance plan prepared under 40
                                    CFR 63.342(f)(3) (Sept. 19, 2012) were followed.

    III.C. Ethylene Oxide

          III.C.1.          Applicability

                     III.C.1.a.     A stationary source that is a sterilization facility that
                             uses or emits ethylene oxide, that commences operation or
                             modification before, on or after July 1, 2026.

          III.C.2.          Exemptions

                     III.C.2.a.       A source is exempt from requirements of Section
                             III.C., provided that the source’s total usage of ethylene




                                                                                            11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                           oxide is 400 pounds or less during any consecutive 12-
                           month period.

                    III.C.2.b.     Equipment or activities that are not required to be
                            reported on TAC reports under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                            Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.
                            are not subject to the requirements in Section III.C.

         III.C.3.          Definitions

                    III.C.3.a.     “Sterilization chamber vent” has the same meaning as
                            the term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                            2024).

                    III.C.3.b.    “Aeration room vent” has the same meaning as the
                            term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024).

                    III.C.3.c.     “Chamber exhaust vent” has the same meaning as
                            the term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                            2024).

                    III.C.3.d.     “Group 1 room air emissions” has the same meaning
                            as the term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                            2024).

                    III.C.3.e.     “Group 2 room air emissions” has the same meaning
                            as the term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                            2024).

                    III.C.3.f.     “Permanent total enclosure” has the same meaning
                            as the term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                            2024).

                    III.C.3.g.    “Sterilization facility” has the same meaning as the
                            term defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024).

                    III.C.3.h.    “Catalytic oxidizer” has the same meaning as the term
                            defined at 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024).

                    III.C.3.i.    “Stationary source” has the meaning set forth in
                            Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.52.

         III.C.4.          Operational standard

                    III.C.4.a.     Beginning July 1, 2026, the owner or operator of the
                            LivaNova sterilization facility (AIRS ID 059-1258) must limit
                            ethylene oxide usage to 12 tons per year or less in lieu of




                                                                                         12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                           complying with Sections III.C.5.a., III.C.6.a., and III.C.7.a.
                           Usage shall be determined on a 12-month rolling average.

                           This limit shall remain in effect until the source demonstrates
                           compliance with the emission requirements specified in
                           Section III.C.5.a.

         III.C.5.          Emission limitations

                    III.C.5.a.     An owner or operator of a sterilization facility, as
                            defined in Section III.C.1.a., must comply with Subpart O
                            National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants
                            for Ethylene Oxide Sterilization and Fumigation Operations,
                            40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024), unless
                            otherwise specified in Section III.C.5.b.

                    III.C.5.b.      The owner or operator of the LivaNova sterilization
                            facility (AIRS ID 059-1258) must:

                           III.C.5.b.(i) The catalytic oxidizer which controls emissions
                                   from the sterilization chamber vents, aeration room
                                   vents, and chamber exhaust vents (i.e., AIRS Point
                                   004 of Permit Number 99JE0094) must meet a 99.5%
                                   reduction of ethylene oxide prior to April 6, 2028. The
                                   owner or operator must monitor compliance with this
                                   condition through the results of approved compliance
                                   tests (when required), compliance with the Division-
                                   approved operations and maintenance plan,
                                   compliance records, and other methods as approved
                                   by the Division.

                           III.C.5.b.(ii) Beginning April 6, 2028, the catalytic oxidizer
                                   which controls emissions from the sterilization
                                   chamber vents, aeration room vents, and chamber
                                   exhaust vents emissions must demonstrate
                                   compliance with the applicable standard under 40
                                   C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024) section
                                   63.362(b), (c), (d), (e), or section 63.362(i).

         III.C.6.          Recordkeeping

                    III.C.6.a.     An owner or operator of a sterilization facility as
                            defined in Section III.C.1.a., must comply with recordkeeping
                            requirements in §63.3687 in Subpart O of the National
                            Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for
                            Ethylene Oxide Sterilization and Fumigation Operations, 40
                            C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024), unless otherwise
                            specified in Section III.C.6.b.



                                                                                            13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.C.6.b.      The owner or operator of the LivaNova sterilization
                            facility (AIRS ID 059-1258) must:

                           III.C.6.b.(i) Prior to April 6, 2028, the stationary source
                                   must maintain records to demonstrate compliance
                                   with the emission limitations in Section III.C.5.b.i., as
                                   necessary.

                           III.C.6.b.(ii) Beginning April 6, 2028, the stationary source
                                   must follow the applicable recordkeeping
                                   requirements in 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
                                   2024) pertaining to sterilization chamber vents,
                                   aeration room vents, and chamber exhaust vent
                                   emissions.

                           III.C.6.b.(iii) Beginning July 1, 2026, and until April 6, 2028,
                                   calculate compliance with applicable yearly
                                   operational standards in Section III.C.5.a. on a rolling
                                   twelve (12) month total. By the end of each month,
                                   the source must calculate a new twelve-month total
                                   based on the previous twelve months usage data.
                                   The source must record these monthly usage rates
                                   and keep a compliance record on site, or at a local
                                   field office with site responsibility, for Division review.

         III.C.7.          Reporting

                    III.C.7.a.       Owners or operators of applicable sterilization
                            facilities, as described in Section III.C.1.a., must comply with
                            reporting requirements in §63.3666 of 40 C.F.R Part 63
                            Subpart O of the National Emission Standards for
                            Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ethylene Oxide Sterilization and
                            Fumigation Operations, 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April
                            5, 2024), unless otherwise specified in Section III.C.7.b.

                    III.C.7.b.       The owner or operator of the LivaNova sterilization
                            facility (AIRS ID 059-1258) must:

                           III.C.7.b.(i) Until April 6, 2028, the stationary source must
                                   submit all reports to the Division as necessary to
                                   demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations
                                   in Section III.C.5.b.(i).

                           III.C.7.b.(ii) Beginning April 6, 2028, the owner or operator
                                   must comply with the reporting requirements in 40
                                   C.F.R. § 63.366(b)(1), (5), and (10) and § 63.366(c)
                                   (April 5, 2024) for reporting deviations. The first
                                   quarterly compliance report must be submitted to the



                                                                                            14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                   Division by July 30, 2028, and must cover the period
                                   from April 6, 2028, through June 30, 2028. Thereafter,
                                   quarterly compliance reports as required under 40
                                   C.F.R. § 63.366(b)(10) and § 63.366(c) (April 5, 2024)
                                   must be submitted to the Division, as provided in 40
                                   C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5, 2024) for
                                   sterilization chamber vents, aeration room vents, and
                                   chamber exhaust vents emissions.

    III.D. Formaldehyde

          III.D.1.          Applicability

          Stationary sources with spark ignition stationary reciprocating internal
          combustion engines or stationary combustion turbines that meet the
          applicability criteria in Section III.D.1. must comply with relevant emission
          control requirements in this Section III.D.

                     III.D.1.a.      An owner or operator of a stationary source that
                             commenced construction before September 1, 2026, with
                             stationary source-wide actual emissions of formaldehyde at
                             or above four thousand (4,000) pounds per year (lb/yr), that
                             operates a spark ignition stationary reciprocating internal
                             combustion engine or a stationary combustion turbine, and
                             that is located as described in either Section III.D.1.a.(i) or
                             III.D.1.a.(ii).

                            III.D.1.a.(i) The stationary source is located in or within 1-
                                    mile of a census block that meets the 2020 PTAC
                                    Cancer Risk Screening Area; or

                            III.D.1.a.(ii) The stationary source is located in or within
                                    one (1) mile of an occupied area, where the occupied
                                    area is, as of September 1, 2026, within the boundary
                                    of a disproportionately impacted community.

                                   III.D.1.a.(ii)(A)     Alternatively, an owner or
                                           operator may assume that the stationary
                                           source’s location in or within one (1) mile of a
                                           disproportionately impacted community as of
                                           September 1, 2026, means the stationary
                                           source is also located in or within one (1) mile
                                           of an occupied area.

                            III.D.1.a.(iii) The stationary source’s actual emissions of
                                    formaldehyde are determined as follows




                                                                                           15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                            III.D.1.a.(iii)(A)    The highest stationary source-
                                    wide actual emissions of formaldehyde
                                    recorded on the stationary source’s 2023,
                                    2024, or 2025 TAC report (as available). If the
                                    stationary source did not submit a 2023, 2024,
                                    or 2025 TAC report, the emissions are based
                                    on the most recent Air Pollutant Emission
                                    Notices (APENs), excluding any cancelled
                                    APEN for points that were not operating after
                                    June 30, 2026, data (if available), unless an
                                    emissions update report is received by January
                                    1, 2027.

                            III.D.1.a.(iii)(B)    A stationary source may choose
                                    to determine actual emissions of formaldehyde
                                    based on the three year average of the actual
                                    emissions of formaldehyde recorded on the
                                    stationary source’s TAC reports for calendar
                                    years 2023, 2024, and 2025.

                            III.D.1.a.(iii)(C)    A stationary source that
                                    commenced construction prior to September 1,
                                    2026, but did not commence operation as of
                                    September 1, 2026, must determine actual
                                    emissions of formaldehyde based on the first
                                    12 months after commencing operation.

              III.D.1.b.      An owner or operator of a stationary source that
                      commences construction on or after September 1, 2026, that
                      will operate a spark ignition stationary reciprocating internal
                      combustion engine or a stationary combustion turbine, with
                      forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions must submit the
                      forecasted formaldehyde emissions as specified in Sections
                      III.D.1.b.(i) through III.D.1.b.(iii).

                     III.D.1.b.(i) Forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions
                             must be submitted in a Division-approved format with
                             the permit application.

                     III.D.1.b.(ii) If no permit application is required, the
                             forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions and
                             certification of location assessment must be submitted
                             to the Division in a Division-approved format before
                             the source commences operation of the spark ignition
                             stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine or
                             stationary combustion turbine.




                                                                                  16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                     III.D.1.b.(iii) If the forecasted actual formaldehyde
                             emissions meet or exceed four thousand (4,000)
                             pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or operator of such
                             stationary source must comply with relevant emission
                             control requirements in this Section III.D. upon
                             commencement of operation of the spark ignition
                             stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine or
                             a stationary combustion turbine.

              III.D.1.c.      An owner or operator of a stationary source that
                      commences construction before September 1, 2026, that
                      undergoes a modification of a spark ignition stationary
                      reciprocating internal combustion engine or a stationary
                      combustion turbine after September 1, 2026, with forecasted
                      actual formaldehyde emissions and that is located as
                      described in either Section III.D.1.c.(i) or III.D.1.c.(ii) must
                      submit the forecasted formaldehyde emissions and location
                      certification as specified in Sections III.D.1.c.(iii) through
                      III.D.1.c.(v).

                     III.D.1.c.(i) The stationary source is located in or within 1-
                             mile of a census block that meets the 2020 PTAC
                             Cancer Risk Screening Area, as of permit application
                             date or, if a permit application is not required, prior to
                             commencement of construction of the modified
                             source; or

                     III.D.1.c.(ii) The stationary source is located in or within
                             one (1) mile of an occupied area within the boundary
                             of a disproportionately impacted community as of
                             permit application date or, if a permit application is not
                             required, prior to commencement of construction of
                             the modified source.

                            III.D.1.c.(ii)(A)      Alternatively, an owner or
                                    operator may assume that the stationary
                                    source’s location in or within one (1) mile of a
                                    disproportionately impacted community as of
                                    permit application date or, if a permit
                                    application is not required, prior to
                                    commencement of construction of the modified
                                    source, means the stationary source is also
                                    located in or within one (1) mile of an occupied
                                    area.

                     III.D.1.c.(iii) The owner or operator of the stationary source
                             must conduct the location assessment within thirty



                                                                                     17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                            (30) days prior to submitting a permit application for
                            the modification. The owner or operator must certify
                            completion of the location assessment with the permit
                            application in a Division-approved format.

                     III.D.1.c.(iv) Forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions
                             must be submitted in a Division-approved format with
                             any permit application as required by Regulation
                             Number 3, Part B, that is associated with the
                             modification.

                            III.D.1.c.(iv)(A)      If no permit application is
                                    required, the forecasted actual formaldehyde
                                    emissions and certification of location
                                    assessment must be submitted to the Division
                                    in a Division-approved format before the
                                    source commences operation of the spark
                                    ignition stationary reciprocating internal
                                    combustion engine or stationary combustion
                                    turbine.

                            III.D.1.c.(iv)(B)      If the forecasted actual
                                    formaldehyde emissions meet or exceed four
                                    thousand (4,000) pounds per year (lb/yr), the
                                    owner or operator of such stationary source
                                    must comply with relevant emission control
                                    requirements in this Section III.D. upon
                                    commencement of operation of the spark
                                    ignition stationary reciprocating internal
                                    combustion engine or a stationary combustion
                                    turbine.

              III.D.1.d.      Emissions from equipment or activities that are not
                      required to be reported on TAC reports under Regulation
                      Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. (or for ONGAEIR sources:
                      activities, emissions, or equipment not required to be
                      reported under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.),
                      will not be considered in determining whether the stationary
                      source-wide emissions meet or exceed the formaldehyde
                      emission threshold in this Section III.D.1.

              III.D.1.e.    Definitions, for purposes of determining applicability.

                     III.D.1.e.(i) “2020 PTAC Cancer Risk Screening Area”
                             means a census block that has a combined modeled
                             cancer risk from carcinogenic priority air toxics at or
                             above 20 in a million excess cancer cases at the time




                                                                                  18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          Regulation 30, Part B, Section III. was adopted and is
                          identified in Division guidance for identifying the 2020
                          PTAC Cancer Risk Screening Areas (April 2026).

                   III.D.1.e.(ii) “Actual emissions” (for the purposes of this
                           Part B, Section III.), has the same meaning set forth
                           in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX.

                   III.D.1.e.(iii) “Commenced construction” for a stationary
                           source has the same meaning set forth in Regulation
                           Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.14.

                   III.D.1.e.(iv) “Disproportionately impacted community” is
                           identified as any census block group (or in the case of
                           “Mobile home communities” a specific location)
                           identified in the Disproportionately Impacted
                           Community Map (November 2024) after selecting the
                           criteria for “Mobile home communities”, “low-income
                           population above 40%”, “People of color population
                           above 40%”, “Housing cost-burdened population
                           above 50%”, “Linguistically isolated population above
                           20%”, and “Colorado EnviroScreen percentile score
                           above 80”.

                   III.D.1.e.(v) “Forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions”
                           means the highest actual emissions, in tons per year,
                           at which a stationary source described in Sections
                           III.D.1.b. or III.D.1.c. is projected to emit formaldehyde
                           in any one of the five calendar years (twelve-month
                           periods) including and following the commencement
                           of operation of the new or modified stationary source.
                           In determining the forecasted actual formaldehyde
                           emissions, before commencing construction, the
                           owner or operator of the stationary source must
                           consider all relevant information, including but not
                           limited to, historical operational data, the company's
                           own representations, the company's expected
                           business activity and the company's highest
                           projections of business activity, the company's filings
                           with the State or Federal regulatory authorities, and
                           compliance plans.

                   III.D.1.e.(vi) “Modified” or “modification” has the same
                           meaning set forth in Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                           Section I.B.33.




                                                                                  19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.D.1.e.(vii) “Occupied Area” means (1) a building or
                            structure designed for use as a place of residency by
                            a person, a family, or families. The term includes
                            manufactured, mobile, and modular homes, except to
                            the extent that any such manufactured, mobile, or
                            modular home is intended for temporary occupancy or
                            for business purposes; (2) indoor or outdoor spaces
                            associated with a school that students use commonly
                            as part of their curriculum or extracurricular activities;
                            (3) five thousand (5,000) or more square feet of
                            building floor area in commercial facilities that are
                            operating and normally occupied during working
                            hours; and (4) an outdoor venue or recreation area,
                            such as a playground, permanent sports field,
                            amphitheater, or other similar place of outdoor public
                            assembly.

                    III.D.1.e.(viii) “Stationary source” has the meaning set forth
                            in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.52.

              III.D.1.f.     Recordkeeping, for the purposes of determining
                      applicability.

              The owner or operator of each stationary source as described in
              Sections III.D.1. must maintain the following records, as applicable,
              for a period of five (5) years and make records available to the
              Division upon request.

                    III.D.1.f.(i)  No later than January 1, 2027, an owner or
                            operator of a stationary source that is determining
                            applicability in accordance with Section III.D.1.a. must
                            maintain the following records.

                           III.D.1.f.(i)(A) Records of the stationary source’s
                                   actual emissions of formaldehyde and the
                                   supporting methodology used to determine
                                   emissions in accordance with Section
                                   III.D.1.a.(iii), and the date of the initial
                                   emissions threshold determination.

                           III.D.1.f.(i)(B) An owner or operator that is determining
                                   stationary source location for the purposes of
                                   applicability in Section III.D.1.a. must maintain
                                   the following records of location determination:

                                  III.D.1.f.(i)(B)(1)   Verification that the
                                          stationary source is located in or within




                                                                                   20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                        one (1) mile of a 2020 PTAC Cancer
                                        Risk Screening Area as of September 1,
                                        2026; or

                                 III.D.1.f.(i)(B)(2)   Verification that the
                                         stationary source is located in or within
                                         one (1) mile of an occupied area within
                                         a disproportionately impacted
                                         community as of September 1, 2026.

                   III.D.1.f.(ii) No later than 60 days after the first 12 months
                           of operation, an owner or operator of a stationary
                           source that commenced construction prior to
                           September 1, 2026, but did not commence operation
                           as of September 1, 2026, determining stationary
                           source applicability in accordance with Section
                           III.D.1.a.(iii)(C) must maintain records of stationary
                           source-wide actual emissions of formaldehyde.

                   III.D.1.f.(iii) An owner or operator that is determining
                           applicability in accordance with Section III.D.1.b. must
                           maintain records of stationary source-wide forecasted
                           actual formaldehyde emissions and the date of the
                           initial applicability emission threshold determination.

                          III.D.1.f.(iii)(A)     An owner or operator that is
                                  determining applicability in accordance with
                                  Section III.D.1.b. and its forecasted actual
                                  formaldehyde emissions are below the 4,000
                                  lb/yr applicability threshold must maintain
                                  records of the stationary source-wide annual
                                  actual emissions of formaldehyde for each of
                                  the five (5) calendar years after
                                  commencement of operation of the new
                                  stationary source.

                   III.D.1.f.(iv) An owner or operator that is determining
                           applicability in accordance with Section III.D.1.c.,
                           must maintain records of stationary source-wide
                           forecasted actual formaldehyde emissions and the
                           date of the initial applicability emission threshold
                           determination.

                          III.D.1.f.(iv)(A)     An owner or operator that is
                                  determining applicability in accordance with
                                  Section III.D.1.c. and its forecasted actual
                                  formaldehyde emissions are below the 4,000




                                                                                  21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                   lb/yr applicability threshold must maintain
                                   records of the stationary source-wide annual
                                   actual emissions of formaldehyde for each of
                                   the five (5) calendar years after
                                   commencement of operation of the modified
                                   stationary source.

                     III.D.1.f.(v) Records of reports related to applicability
                             submitted pursuant to Section III.D.1.h.

              III.D.1.g.    Reports related to applicability.

                     III.D.1.g.(i) Emission update report: No later than January
                             1, 2027, if an owner or operator assessing stationary
                             source-wide emissions in accordance with Section
                             III.D.1.a. elects to use the emission update
                             mechanism in Section III.D.1.a.(iii)(A) and stationary
                             source-wide actual emissions of formaldehyde are
                             below 4,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or
                             operator must submit an update to previously
                             reported emissions in a Division-approved format.

                            III.D.1.g.(i)(A)       The emissions update must verify
                                    that the stationary source-wide actual
                                    emissions are below the formaldehyde
                                    emissions threshold of 4,000 pounds per year
                                    (lb/yr) based on calendar year 2025 actual
                                    emissions, or based on the three year average
                                    of the actual emissions of formaldehyde
                                    recorded on the stationary source’s TAC
                                    reports for calendar years 2023, 2024, and
                                    2025, in accordance with procedures and
                                    exemptions set forth in Regulation Number 3,
                                    Part A, Section IX., or Regulation Number 7,
                                    Part B, Section V.

                     III.D.1.g.(ii) Notice of Applicability for an existing stationary
                             source that had not yet commenced operation as of
                             September 1, 2026: No later than 60 days after the
                             first 12 months of operation, for an owner or operator
                             of a stationary source that commenced construction
                             prior to September 1, 2026, but had not yet
                             commenced operation as of that date, and the
                             stationary source-wide actual emissions of
                             formaldehyde meet or exceed 4,000 pounds per year
                             (lb/yr), the owner or operator must:




                                                                                    22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.D.1.g.(ii)(A)      Submit a notification of
                                  applicability to the Division which verifies the
                                  calendar year of actual emissions of
                                  formaldehyde from the first 12 months after
                                  commencing operation that met or exceeded
                                  4,000 pounds per year (lb/yr); and

                          III.D.1.g.(ii)(B)     Comply with any applicable
                                  requirements in this Section III.D. within one
                                  hundred and eighty (180) days of the date the
                                  notification was due.

                   III.D.1.g.(iii) Notice of Applicability for a new stationary
                           source: If a stationary source’s forecasted actual
                           formaldehyde emissions are below 4,000 pounds per
                           year (lb/yr), and the source subsequently has actual
                           emissions of formaldehyde at or above 4,000 lb/yr in
                           any of the first five (5) calendar years after operation,
                           no later than March 1 of the subsequent calendar
                           year where actual emissions of formaldehyde meet or
                           exceed 4,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or
                           operator must submit a notification of applicability in a
                           Division-approved format which verifies the calendar
                           year of actual emissions of formaldehyde that met or
                           exceeded 4,000 pounds per year (lb/yr).

                          III.D.1.g.(iii)(A)    The owner or operator of such
                                  stationary source must comply with any
                                  applicable requirements in this Section III.D.
                                  within one hundred and eighty (180) days of
                                  the date the notification was due.

                   III.D.1. g.(iv) Notice of Applicability after a stationary source
                           modifies: If a stationary source’s forecasted actual
                           formaldehyde emissions are below 4,000 pounds per
                           year (lb/yr), and the source subsequently has actual
                           emissions of formaldehyde at or above 4,000 lb/yr in
                           any of the first five (5) calendar years after operation,
                           no later than March 1 of the subsequent calendar
                           year where actual emissions of formaldehyde meet or
                           exceed 4,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or
                           operator must:

                          III.D.1.g.(iv)(A)      Submit a notification of
                                  applicability to the Division which verifies the
                                  calendar year of actual emissions of




                                                                                     23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                            formaldehyde that met or exceeded 4,000
                                            pounds per year (lb/yr); and

                                   III.D.1.g.(iv)(B)     Comply with any applicable
                                           requirements in this Section III.D. within one
                                           hundred and eighty (180) days of the date the
                                           notification was due.

         III.D.2.        Requirements for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal
                    Combustion Engines.

                    III.D.2.a.     Exemptions.

                           III.D.2.a.(i) Stationary compression ignition reciprocating
                                   internal combustion engines.

                           III.D.2.a.(ii) Non-road engines, as defined in Regulation
                                   Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.

                           III.D.2.a.(iii) Emergency power generators exempt from
                                   APEN or construction permit requirements pursuant
                                   to Regulation Number 3, Parts A or B.

                           III.D.2.a.(iv) Stationary natural gas-fired reciprocating
                                   internal combustion engines that commenced
                                   construction before September 1, 2026, if the owner
                                   or operator will remove or electrify the engine as an
                                   emissions reduction measure to comply with
                                   Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section VII.

                           III.D.2.a.(v) Equipment or activities that are not required to
                                   be reported on TAC reports under Regulation Number
                                   3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7,
                                   Part B, Section V. are not subject to the requirements
                                   in Section III.D.2.c. through III.D.2.g.

                    III.D.2.b.     Definitions.

                           III.D.2.b.(i) “Area HAP source” means a stationary source
                                   of HAP that is not a major HAP source.

                           III.D.2.b.(ii)   “Commenced construction” means

                                   III.D.2.b.(ii)(A)     For a spark ignition stationary
                                           reciprocating internal combustion engine
                                           subject to 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ as
                                           specified in Sections 63.6585 and 63.6590
                                           (August 30, 2024), the owner or operator has



                                                                                        24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                 undertaken or has entered into a contractual
                                 obligation to undertake and complete a
                                 continuous program of construction.
                                 Construction meaning the on-site fabrication,
                                 erection, or installation of the stationary internal
                                 combustion engine. Construction does not
                                 include removal of an engine from an existing
                                 location and reinstallation of such engine at a
                                 new location.

                          III.D.2.b.(ii)(B)     For a stationary reciprocating
                                  internal combustion engine subject to 40 CFR
                                  Part 60, Subpart JJJJ (August 30, 2024) as
                                  specified in 40 CFR Part 63, Section
                                  63.6590(c) (August 30, 2024), the date the
                                  engine is ordered by the owner or operator.

                   III.D.2.b.(iii) “Fixed capital cost” means the capital needed
                           to provide all the depreciable components of an
                           existing stationary reciprocating internal combustion
                           engine.

                   III.D.2.b.(iv) “Four-stroke engine” means any type of engine
                           which completes the power cycle in two crankshaft
                           revolutions, with intake and compression strokes in
                           the first revolution and power and exhaust strokes in
                           the second revolution.

                   III.D.2.b.(v) “Lean burn engine” means any two-stroke or
                           four-stroke spark ignited engine that does not meet
                           the definition of a rich burn engine.

                   III.D.2.b.(vi) “Major HAP source” has the same meaning as
                           defined in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.

                   III.D.2.b.(vii) “Reciprocating internal combustion engine”
                           (RICE) means any reciprocating internal combustion
                           engine which uses reciprocating motion to convert
                           heat energy into mechanical work and which is not
                           used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used
                           solely for competition.

                   III.D.2.b.(viii) “Reconstruction” means the replacement of
                           components of an affected or previously non-affected
                           stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine to
                           such extent that (1) the fixed capital cost of the new
                           components exceeds fifty (50) percent of the fixed




                                                                                  25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          capital cost that would be required to construct a
                          comparable new source and (2) it is technologically
                          and economically feasible for the reconstructed
                          source to meet the requirements in this Section
                          III.D.2.

                   III.D.2.b.(ix) “Rich burn engine” means any four-stroke
                           spark ignited engine where the manufacturer's
                           recommended operating air/fuel ratio divided by the
                           stoichiometric air/fuel ratio at full load conditions is
                           less than or equal to 1.1. Engines originally
                           manufactured as rich burn engines, but modified prior
                           to December 19, 2002, with passive emission control
                           technology for NOx (such as pre-combustion
                           chambers) will be considered lean burn engines. Also,
                           existing engines where there are no manufacturer's
                           recommendations regarding air/fuel ratio will be
                           considered a rich burn engine if the excess oxygen
                           content of the exhaust at full load conditions is less
                           than or equal to 2 percent.

                   III.D.2.b.(x) “Spark ignition RICE” means relating to either a
                           gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine
                           with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with
                           operating characteristics significantly similar to the
                           theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark ignition
                           engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air
                           flow to control power during normal operation.

                   III.D.2.b.(xi) “Startup” means the time from initial start until
                           applied load and engine and associated equipment
                           reaches steady state or normal operation. For
                           stationary engines with catalytic controls, engine
                           startup means the time from initial start until applied
                           load and engine and associated equipment, including
                           the catalyst, reaches steady state or normal
                           operation.

                   III.D.2.b.(xii) “Stationary reciprocating internal combustion
                           engine” means any reciprocating internal combustion
                           engine which uses reciprocating motion to convert
                           heat energy into mechanical work and which is not
                           mobile. Stationary RICE differ from mobile RICE in
                           that a stationary RICE is not a non-road engine as
                           defined at 40 CFR 1068.30 (April 18, 2024), and is
                           not used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used
                           solely for competition.



                                                                                 26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                      III.D.2.b.(xiii) “Two-stroke engine” means a type of engine
                              which completes the power cycle in single crankshaft
                              revolution by combining the intake and compression
                              operations into one stroke and the power and exhaust
                              operations into a second stroke. This system requires
                              auxiliary scavenging and inherently runs lean of
                              stoichiometric.

              III.D.2.c.     Emissions limitations.

                      III.D.2.c.(i) Beginning January 1, 2027, unless
                              implementation date is otherwise specified in Section
                              III.D.1.g., the owner or operator of a spark ignition
                              stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine
                              that commenced construction or reconstruction prior
                              to September 1, 2026, at a stationary source
                              described in Section III.D.1.a. must comply with the
                              applicable formaldehyde or carbon monoxide
                              emissions limitations, operating limitations, and
                              associated compliance provisions in 40 CFR Part 63,
                              Subpart ZZZZ, Sections 63.6600 through 63.6603,
                              63.6635, and 63.6640 (August 30, 2024) or 40 CFR
                              Part 60, Subpart JJJJ, Sections 60.4233 through
                              60.4235 and 60.4243 (August 30, 2024) that
                              correspond to the engine.

                      III.D.2.c.(ii) The owner or operator of an engine described
                              in Sections III.D.2.c.(ii)(A) or III.D.2.c.(ii)(B) and with a
                              horsepower equal to or greater than 100 must comply
                              with a carbon monoxide emission limit of 0.40 g/hp-hr,
                              except as provided in Table 1 or Section III.D.2.c.(iii),
                              and operating limitations and associated compliance
                              provisions in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ, Sections
                              63.6600 through 63.6603, 63.6635, and 63.6640
                              (August 30, 2024) or 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart JJJJ,
                              Section 60.4243 (August 30, 2024) that correspond to
                              the engine.

                             III.D.2.c.(ii)(A)       A spark ignition stationary
                                     reciprocating internal combustion engine that
                                     commences construction or reconstruction on
                                     or after September 1, 2026, at a stationary
                                     source described in Section III.D.1.a. or a
                                     stationary source described in Section
                                     III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) that meets the criteria set forth
                                     in either Section III.D.1.c.(i) or III.D.1.c.(ii).




                                                                                        27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.D.2.c.(ii)(B)     A spark ignition stationary
                                  reciprocating internal combustion engine that
                                  commences construction at a stationary source
                                  described in Section III.D.1.b.(iii).

                          Table 1

                          Engine type         Maximum engine        Carbon
                          and fuel            power                 monoxide
                                                                    emission
                                                                    standard (g/hp-
                                                                    hr)

                          Non-emergency 100≤hp<157                  4.0
                          SI natural gas
                          and non-
                          emergency SI
                          lean burn LPG

                          Landfill/digester   100≤hp <157           5.0
                          gas

                          III.D.2.c.(ii)(C)      Four stroke rich burn stationary
                                  reciprocating internal combustion engines with
                                  a site rating of more than 500 brake
                                  horsepower and located at a major HAP
                                  source are exempt from the carbon monoxide
                                  emissions limitations in Section III.D.2.c.(ii) and
                                  Table 1 but must comply with the formaldehyde
                                  emissions limitation in 40 CFR Part 63,
                                  Subpart ZZZZ, Table 1a (August 20, 2010).

                          III.D.1.c.(ii)(D)   Compliance with the applicable
                                  carbon monoxide emissions limit must be
                                  achieved upon and after startup of the engine.

                   III.D.2.c.(iii) As an alternative to compliance with the carbon
                           monoxide emission limit of 0.40 g/hp-hr in Section
                           III.D.2.c.(ii), the owner or operator may demonstrate
                           compliance with the following.

                          III.D.2.c.(iii)(A)  For lean burn 2-stroke engines, a
                                  58% reduction in carbon monoxide.

                          III.D.2.c.(iii)(B)  For lean burn 4-stroke engines, a
                                  93% reduction in carbon monoxide.




                                                                                  28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                             III.D.2.c.(iii)(C)    For rich burn engines, a 90%
                                     reduction in carbon monoxide.

                             III.D.2.c.(iii)(D)   The percent reduction is
                                     determined by testing according to the MACT
                                     ZZZZ testing requirements for carbon
                                     monoxide reduction in 40 CFR Part 63,
                                     Subpart ZZZZ, Section 63.6620 (August 30,
                                     2024).

                     III.D.2.c.(iv) The carbon monoxide emission limit of 0.40
                             g/hp-hr does not apply to periods of startup or
                             shutdown. During periods of startup or shutdown,
                             owners or operators must maintain and operate the
                             engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution
                             control practices for minimizing emissions.

              III.D.2.d.       Beginning calendar year 2027 or the calendar year
                      after initial startup, whichever is later, the owner or operator
                      of a stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine at
                      facility described in Sections III.D.1.a, III.D.1.b.(iii), or
                      III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) where the III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) source also meets
                      the criteria set forth in either Section III.D.1.c.(i) or
                      III.D.1.c.(iii) must conduct the following inspections and
                      adjustments annually.

                     III.D.2.d.(i)   Change oil and filters as necessary.

                     III.D.2.d.(ii) Inspect air cleaners, fuel filters, hoses, and
                             belts and clean or replace as necessary.

                     III.D.2.d.(iii) Inspect spark plugs and replace as necessary.

                     III.D.2.d.(iv) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             reciprocating internal combustion engine that is
                             subject to and required to conduct a periodic tune-up
                             or combustion adjustment by the applicable
                             requirements of a New Source Performance Standard
                             in 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2025) or National Emission
                             Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants in 40 CFR Part
                             63 (July 1, 2025) may conduct tune-ups or
                             adjustments according to the schedule and
                             procedures of the applicable requirements of 40 CFR
                             Part 60 (July 1, 2025) or 40 CFR Part 63 (July 1,
                             2025).

              III.D.2.e.     Performance testing and monitoring.




                                                                                     29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                   III.D.2.e.(i) The owner or operator of an engine subject to
                           the emissions limitations requirements in Section
                           III.D.2.c.(i), Table 1, or Section III.D.2.c.(ii)(C) must
                           comply with the applicable performance testing
                           requirements in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ,
                           Section 63.6620 (August 30, 2024) or 40 CFR Part
                           60, Subpart JJJJ, Section 60.4244 (August 30, 2024).

                   III.D.2.e.(ii) The owner or operator of an engine subject to
                           the 0.4 g/hp-hr emissions limitation in Section
                           III.D.2.c.(ii) must

                          III.D.2.e.(ii)(A)      Conduct an initial performance
                                  test for carbon monoxide within 180 days after
                                  startup in accordance with the applicable
                                  reference test methods of 40 C.F.R. Part 60,
                                  Appendix A (July 1, 2019), and a test protocol
                                  submitted to the Division for review at least
                                  thirty (30) days prior to testing and in
                                  accordance with AQCC Common Provisions
                                  Regulation Section II.C.

                          III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)       Conduct semi-annual portable
                                  analyzer monitoring for carbon monoxide,
                                  beginning within 180 days after completion of
                                  the initial performance test required in Section
                                  III.D.2.e.(ii)(A).

                                 III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(1) If the engine does not
                                         operate continuously, conduct portable
                                         analyzer monitoring for carbon dioxide
                                         semi-annually or within each 4,380‑hour
                                         operating period.

                                 III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(2) If the engine does not
                                         operate continuously and does not
                                         exceed 4,380 hours of operation within
                                         two (2) calendar years, a minimum of
                                         one portable analyzer test must be
                                         completed every two years.

                                 III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(3) At least sixty (60) calendar
                                         days must separate the semi-annual
                                         tests.

                                 III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(4)  All portable analyzer
                                         testing required by this section must be




                                                                                 30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                       conducted using the Division’s Portable
                                       Analyzer Monitoring Protocol (version:
                                       March 2006).

                                III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(5)    Tuning of an engine prior
                                        to semi-annual monitoring events
                                        required by this Section III.D.2.e. is not
                                        a violation of this rule. However,
                                        readjustment of an engine set point
                                        following the monitoring event that
                                        would negatively impact the
                                        performance (i.e., result in increased
                                        emissions above applicable permit
                                        limits) of the engine is a violation of this
                                        rule.

                                III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(6)  A performance test
                                        conducted pursuant to Section III.D.2.e.,
                                        40 CFR Part 60, Subpart JJJJ (August
                                        30, 2024), or a permit requirement may
                                        take the place of the next required semi-
                                        annual portable analyzer test required
                                        by this section.

                                III.D.2.e.(ii)(B)(7)   An engine subject to at
                                        least semi-annual portable analyzer
                                        testing requirements in an existing
                                        permit issued by the Division can
                                        comply with this Section III.D.2.e. by
                                        complying with the testing requirements
                                        in the permit.

                   III.D.2.e.(iii) The owner or operator of an engine complying
                           with the alternative emissions limitation in Section
                           III.D.2.c.(iii) must

                         III.D.2.e.(iii)(A)    Conduct an initial performance
                                 test for carbon monoxide within 180 days after
                                 startup.

                         III.D.2.e.(iii)(B)  Conduct subsequent
                                 performance tests annually.

                         III.D.2.e.(iii)(C)   Performance tests must be
                                 conducted in accordance with 40 CFR Part 63,
                                 Subpart ZZZZ, Section 63.6620 (August 30,
                                 2024).




                                                                                  31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                     III.D.2.e.(iv) Tuning of an engine prior to a performance test
                             required by Sections III.D.2.e.(ii) or III.D.2.e.(iii) is not
                             a violation of this rule. However, readjustment of an
                             engine set point following the performance test that
                             would negatively impact the performance of the
                             engine (i.e. result in increased emissions above
                             applicable permit limits) is a violation of this rule.

              III.D.2.f.      Recordkeeping. The owner or operator of each spark
                      ignition stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine
                      subject to a requirement under this Section III.D.2. must
                      maintain the following records, as applicable, for a period of
                      five (5) years and make records available to the Division
                      upon request.

                     III.D.2.f.(i)  The applicable records in 40 CFR Sections
                             63.6655 (August 30, 2024) and 63.6660 (March 3,
                             2010) or in 40 CFR Section 60.4245 (August 30,
                             2024).

                     III.D.2.f.(ii) Records demonstrating compliance with
                             Section III.D.2.d., including

                            III.D.2.f.(ii)(A) The date of the inspection.

                            III.D.2.f.(ii)(B) A description of what adjustment
                                    procedures were performed.

                            III.D.2.f.(ii)(C)A description of any corrective action
                                    taken.

                            III.D.2.f.(ii)(D)Whether the inspection was conducted
                                    pursuant to a New Source Performance
                                    Standard or National Emission Standard for
                                    Hazardous Air Pollutants, and which standard.

              III.D.2.g.    Reporting.

                     III.D.2.g.(i) The owner or operator of each source as
                             described in Section III.D.1. must submit the
                             applicable reports in 40 CFR Sections 63.6645 and
                             63.6650 (August 30, 2024) or in 40 CFR Section
                             60.4245 (August 30, 2024).

                     III.D.2.g.(ii) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             reciprocating internal combustion engines subject to
                             Sections III.D.2.c.(ii) or III.D.2.c.(iii), must submit




                                                                                       32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  performance test results to the Division within thirty
                                  (30) days of completion of each test.

         III.D.3.          Requirements for Stationary Combustion Turbines.

                    III.D.3.a.    Exemptions.

                           III.D.3.a.(i) Equipment or activities that are not required to
                                   be reported on TAC reports under Regulation Number
                                   3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7,
                                   Part B, Section V. are not subject to the requirements
                                   in Sections III.D.3.c. through III.D.3.h.

                           III.D.3.a.(ii) Stationary combustion turbines that
                                   commenced construction or reconstruction on or
                                   before September 1, 2026, if the owner or operator
                                   will remove or electrify the turbine as an emissions
                                   reduction measure to comply with Regulation Number
                                   7, Part B, Section VII.

                    III.D.3.b.    Definitions.

                           III.D.3.b.(i) “Area HAP source” means a stationary source
                                   of HAP that is not a major HAP source.

                           III.D.3.b.(ii) “Commenced construction” means for a
                                   stationary combustion turbine, the owner or operator
                                   has undertaken or has entered into a contractual
                                   obligation to undertake and complete a continuous
                                   program of construction. Construction meaning the
                                   on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of the
                                   stationary combustion turbine. Construction does not
                                   include the removal of a stationary combustion turbine
                                   from an existing location and reinstallation of such
                                   turbine at a new location.

                           III.D.3.b.(iii) “Deviation,” for purposes of this Section
                                   III.D.3., means any instance in which a stationary
                                   combustion turbine fails to meet an emissions or
                                   operating limitation.

                           III.D.3.b.(iv) “Fixed capital cost” means the capital needed
                                   to provide all the depreciable components of an
                                   existing stationary combustion turbine.

                           III.D.3.b.(v) “Major HAP source” has the same meaning as
                                   defined in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.




                                                                                           33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                      III.D.3.b.(vi) “Reconstruction” means the replacement of
                              components of an affected or previously non-affected
                              stationary combustion turbine to such extent that (1)
                              the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds
                              fifty (50) percent of the fixed capital cost that would be
                              required to construct a comparable new source and
                              (2) it is technologically and economically feasible for
                              the reconstructed source to meet the requirements in
                              this Section III.D.3.

                      III.D.3.b.(vii) “Startup” begins at the first firing of fuel in the
                              stationary combustion turbine. For simple cycle
                              turbines, startup ends when the stationary combustion
                              turbine has reached stable operation or after 1 hour,
                              whichever is less. For combined cycle turbines,
                              startup ends when the stationary combustion turbine
                              has reached stable operation or after 3 hours,
                              whichever is less. Turbines in combined cycle
                              configurations that are operating as simple cycle
                              turbines must meet the startup requirements for
                              simple cycle turbines while operating as simple cycle
                              turbines.

                      III.D.3.b.(viii) “Stationary combustion turbine” means all
                              equipment, including but not limited to the turbine, the
                              fuel, air, lubrication and exhaust gas systems, control
                              systems (except emissions control equipment), and
                              any ancillary components and sub-components
                              comprising any simple cycle stationary combustion
                              turbine, any regenerative/recuperative cycle
                              stationary combustion turbine, the combustion turbine
                              portion of any stationary cogeneration cycle
                              combustion system, or the combustion turbine portion
                              of any stationary combined cycle steam/electric
                              generating system. Stationary means that the
                              combustion turbine is not self-propelled or intended to
                              be propelled when performing its function. Stationary
                              combustion turbines do not include turbines located at
                              a research or laboratory facility, if research is
                              conducted on the turbine itself and the turbine is not
                              being used to power other applications at the
                              research or laboratory facility.

              III.D.3.c.     Emissions limitations.

                      III.D.3.c.(i) Beginning January 1, 2027, unless
                              implementation date is otherwise specified in Section



                                                                                      34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.D.1.g., the owner or operator of a stationary
                          combustion turbine that commenced construction or
                          reconstruction after January 14, 2003, at a stationary
                          source described in Section III.D.1.a. that is also a
                          major HAP source must comply with the
                          formaldehyde emissions limitations in 40 CFR Part
                          63, Subpart YYYY, Table 1 (March 9, 2022) and the
                          operating limitations in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart
                          YYYY, Table 2 (March 9, 2022) that correspond to the
                          turbine.

                   III.D.3.c.(ii) The owner or operator of a stationary
                           combustion turbine described in Sections
                           III.D.3.c.(ii)(A) and III.D.3.c.(ii)(B) that is not subject to
                           the formaldehyde emissions limitations in 40 CFR
                           Part 63, Subpart YYYY (March 9, 2022) must comply
                           with either Section III.D.3.c.(ii)(C) or III.D.3.c.(ii)(D).

                          III.D.3.c.(ii)(A)        A stationary combustion turbine
                                  that commences construction or reconstruction
                                  after September 1, 2026, at a stationary source
                                  described in Sections III.D.1.a. or a stationary
                                  source described in Section III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) that
                                  meets the criteria set forth in either Section
                                  III.D.1.c.(i) or III.D.1.c.(ii).

                          III.D.3.c.(ii)(B)        A stationary combustion turbine
                                  that commences construction or reconstruction
                                  at a stationary source described in Section
                                  III.D.1.b.(iii).

                          III.D.3.c.(ii)(C)     The owner or operator must
                                  comply with the applicable carbon monoxide
                                  emission limit provided in Table 2.

                                  III.D.3.c.(ii)(C)(1)   Compliance with the
                                          applicable carbon monoxide emissions
                                          limit must be achieved upon and after
                                          startup of the stationary combustion
                                          turbine.




                                                                                      35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission




              Table 2

             mum heat input                        CO emissions
              (MMBtu/hr)                           concentration (ppmvd @
                                                   15% O2)

                                                   Gaseous       Liquid fuels
                                                   fuels

              > 10 and < 150     Simple and        6.0           10.0
                                 regenerative

              > 150              Simple and        4.5           5.0
                                 regenerative

              > 10 and < 150     Combined          5.0           10.0

              > 150              Combined          2.0           2.0



                            III.D.3.c.(ii)(D)      The owner or operator must
                                    comply with the formaldehyde emissions
                                    limitations in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart YYYY,
                                    Table 1 (March 9, 2022).

                                    III.D.3.c.(ii)(D)(1)   Compliance with the
                                            applicable formaldehyde emissions limit
                                            must be achieved upon and after startup
                                            of the turbine.

                      III.D.3.c.(iii) The emissions limits in Table 2 do not apply
                              during periods of startup or shutdown. During periods
                              of startup or shutdown, owners or operators must
                              maintain and operate the stationary combustion
                              turbine in a manner consistent with good air pollution
                              control practices for minimizing emissions.

              III.D.3.d.      All stationary combustion turbines and associated air
                      pollution control and monitoring equipment located at a
                      stationary source described in Sections III.D.1.a.,
                      III.D.1.b.(iii), or III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) where the III.D.1.c.(iv)(B)
                      source also meets the criteria set forth in either Section
                      III.D.1.c.(i) or III.D.1.c.(iii) must be operated and maintained
                      pursuant to the manufacturing specifications or equivalent to



                                                                                     36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                        5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                     the extent practicable, and consistent with technological
                     limitations and good engineering and maintenance practices.
                     The owner or operator must keep manufacturer
                     specifications or equivalent on file.

              III.D.3.e.    Compliance monitoring and performance testing.

                     III.D.3.e.(i) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             combustion turbine subject to Section III.D.3.c.(i) must
                             comply with the performance testing requirements in
                             40 CFR Part 63, Subpart YYYY, Table 3 (March 9,
                             2022).

                     III.D.3.e.(ii) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             combustion turbine greater than or equal to 150
                             MMBtu/hr complying with Section III.D.3.c.(ii)(C) must
                             demonstrate compliance with the applicable carbon
                             monoxide emissions limit in Table 2 using 3-hour
                             rolling averaging times based on 1-hour blocks as
                             monitored by a continuous emissions monitoring
                             system (CEMS).

                     III.D.3.e.(iii) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             combustion turbine less than 150 MMBtu/hr
                             complying with Section III.D.3.c.(ii)(C) must
                             demonstrate compliance with the applicable carbon
                             monoxide emissions limit in Table 2 using

                            III.D.3.e.(iii)(A)     An initial performance test for
                                    carbon monoxide within 180 days after startup
                                    conducted in accordance with the applicable
                                    reference test methods of 40 C.F.R. Part 60,
                                    Appendix A (July 1, 2019), and a test protocol
                                    submitted to the Division for review at least
                                    thirty (30) days prior to testing and in
                                    accordance with AQCC Common Provisions
                                    Regulation Section II.C., and

                            III.D.3.e.(iii)(B)    Quarterly portable analyzer
                                    monitoring for carbon monoxide.

                                   III.D.3.e.(iii)(B)(1) For stationary combustion
                                           turbines that do not operate
                                           continuously, conduct portable analyzer
                                           monitoring quarterly or within each
                                           2,190 hour operating period.




                                                                                  37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                III.D.3.e.(iii)(B)(2) For stationary combustion
                                        turbines that do not operate
                                        continuously and that do not exceed
                                        2,190 hours of operation within two
                                        years, a minimum of one portable
                                        analyzer test must be completed every
                                        two years.

                                III.D.3.e.(iii)(B)(3) At least 30 days must
                                        separate the quarterly tests.

                         III.D.3.e.(iii)(C)  Portable analyzer testing must be
                                 conducted using the Division’s Portable
                                 Analyzer Monitoring Protocol (version: March
                                 2006).

                         III.D.3.e.(iii)(D)    A performance test conducted
                                 pursuant to 40 CFR Part 60, Subparts KKKK or
                                 KKKKa (January 15, 2026), or a permit
                                 requirement may take the place of the next
                                 required quarterly portable analyzer test
                                 required by this section.

                         III.D.3.e.(iii)(E)     Tuning of a turbine prior to
                                 quarterly monitoring events or performance
                                 tests required by this Section III.D.3.e. is not a
                                 violation of this rule. However, readjustment of
                                 a turbine set point following the monitoring
                                 event that would negatively impact the
                                 performance (i.e., result in increased emissions
                                 above applicable permit limits) of the turbine is
                                 a violation of this rule.

                         III.D.3.e.(iii)(F)   As an alternative to conducting
                                 performance tests and quarterly portable
                                 analyzer monitoring, the owner or operator
                                 may demonstrate compliance with the carbon
                                 monoxide emissions limit using 3-hour rolling
                                 averaging times based on 1-hour blocks as
                                 monitored by a continuous emissions
                                 monitoring system (CEMS).

                   III.D.3.e.(iv) The owner or operator of a stationary
                           combustion turbine complying with Section
                           III.D.3.c.(ii)(D) must




                                                                                38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.D.3.e.(iv)(A)     Conduct an initial performance
                                  test for formaldehyde within 180 days after
                                  startup.

                          III.D.3.e.(iv)(B)   Conduct subsequent
                                  performance tests for formaldehyde annually.

                          III.D.3.e.(iv)(C)    Performance tests must be
                                  conducted in accordance with the procedures
                                  in 40 CFR, Part 63, Subpart YYYY, Table 3
                                  (March 9, 2022).

                          III.D.3.e.(iv)(D)    As an alternative to conducting
                                  performance tests, the owner or operator may
                                  demonstrate compliance with the formaldehyde
                                  emissions limitation using 3-hour rolling
                                  averaging times based on 1-hour blocks as
                                  monitored by a continuous emissions
                                  monitoring system (CEMS).

                   III.D.3.e.(v) The owner or operator of a stationary
                           combustion turbine utilizing an oxidation catalyst to
                           comply with the applicable carbon monoxide or
                           formaldehyde emissions limitation in Sections
                           III.D.3.c.(ii)(C) or III.D.3.c.(ii)(D), and that is not
                           demonstrating compliance using a CEMS pursuant to
                           Sections III.D.3.e.(ii), III.D.3.e.(iii)(F) or
                           III.D.3.e.(iv)(D), must continuously monitor the inlet
                           temperature to the catalyst and maintain the 4-hour
                           rolling average of the inlet temperature within the
                           range suggested by the catalyst manufacturer.
                           Catalyst inlet temperature data recorded during
                           startup is not required to be included in the
                           calculations of the 4-hour rolling average catalyst inlet
                           temperature.

                   III.D.3.e.(vi) The owner or operator of a stationary
                           combustion turbine not utilizing an oxidation catalyst
                           to comply with the formaldehyde emissions limitation
                           in Section III.D.3.c.(ii)(D) or the carbon monoxide
                           emissions limitation in Section III.D.3.c.(ii)(C) and
                           compliance is not demonstrated as monitored by a
                           continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS)
                           must within 30 days after completion of the initial
                           compliance test develop and implement an operating
                           parameter monitoring plan that includes operating
                           parameters and ranges to demonstrate compliance



                                                                                 39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                     5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                        with the applicable emissions limitation. The operating
                        plan must

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(A)     Identify the operating parameters
                                that influence formaldehyde or carbon
                                monoxide emissions for the specific stationary
                                combustion turbine, which may include
                                parameters such as combustion chamber
                                temperature, turbine load, air‑to‑fuel ratio, fuel
                                characteristics, or any other parameters
                                demonstrated to be reliable indicators of
                                emission performance;

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(B)      Establish allowable operating
                                ranges for each selected parameter based on
                                the conditions measured during the most
                                recent performance test and any manufacturer
                                recommendations as applicable, including
                                documentation of how the ranges were derived
                                and justification that the ranges ensure
                                ongoing compliance with the applicable
                                emission limit;

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(C)     Describe the monitoring
                                equipment, measurement methods, and
                                monitoring frequency for each parameter,
                                including calibration, quality assurance, and
                                quality control procedures sufficient to ensure
                                data accuracy, as applicable;

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(D)    Specify the corrective actions the
                                owner or operator will take when any
                                monitored parameter falls outside the
                                established allowable range, including
                                procedures for returning the stationary
                                combustion turbine to compliant operation and
                                documenting the duration and cause of the
                                excursion; and

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(E)     Include recordkeeping and
                                reporting procedures that document parameter
                                readings, excursions, corrective actions, and
                                any updates to the operating parameter
                                monitoring plan.

                        III.D.3.e.(vi)(F)    The owner or operator must
                                maintain the operating monitoring plan and




                                                                                40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                     revise the plan whenever a performance test,
                                     equipment modification, or operational change
                                     affects the parameters or ranges relied upon to
                                     demonstrate compliance. Plans must be made
                                     available to the Division upon request.
                                     Revisions must be made to the plans at the
                                     request of the Division.

              III.D.3.f.      Beginning in calendar year 2027 or the calendar year
                      after initial startup, whichever is later, the owner or operator
                      of a stationary combustion turbine at a facility described in
                      Sections III.D.1.a., III.D.1.b.(iii), or III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) where the
                      III.D.1.c.(iv)(B) source also meets the criteria set forth in
                      either Section III.D.1.c.(i) or III.D.1.c.(iii) must conduct the
                      following inspections and adjustments annually.

                     III.D.3.f.(i)  Inspect turbine inlet systems and align, repair,
                             or replace components as necessary.

                     III.D.3.f.(ii) Inspect the combustion chamber components,
                             combustion liners, transition pieces, and fuel nozzle
                             assemblies and clean, repair, or replace components
                             as necessary.

                     III.D.3.f.(iii) Inspections must be conducted when burning
                             the fuel that provides the majority of the heat input
                             since the last combustion process adjustment and
                             when operating at a firing rate typical of normal
                             operation, confirm proper setting and calibration of the
                             combustion controls.

                     III.D.3.f.(iv) The owner or operator of a stationary
                             combustion turbine that is subject to and required to
                             conduct a periodic tune-up or combustion adjustment
                             by the applicable requirements of a New Source
                             Performance Standard in 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1,
                             2025) or National Emission Standard for Hazardous
                             Air Pollutants in 40 CFR Part 63 (July 1, 2025) may
                             conduct tune-ups or adjustments according to the
                             schedule and procedures of the applicable
                             requirements of 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2025) or 40
                             CFR Part 63 (July 1, 2025).

                     III.D.3.f.(v) If the stationary combustion turbine was
                             constructed for the purpose of supplying more than
                             one-third of its potential electric output capacity to any




                                                                                        41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                            utility power distribution system for sale, the
                            inspection may be delayed

                            III.D.3.f.(v)(A)      Until a unit outage, not to exceed
                                    twenty-four (24) months from the prior
                                    inspection required by Section III.D.3.f.; or

                            III.D.3.f.(v)(B)        If the stationary combustion
                                    turbine is offline when the deadline to perform
                                    the inspection required by Section III.D.3.f.
                                    passes. The owner or operator of the
                                    stationary combustion turbine must perform the
                                    inspection within 720 unit operating hours after
                                    startup.

              III.D.3.g.     Recordkeeping. The owner or operator of each
                      stationary combustion turbine subject to a requirement in this
                      Section III.D.3. must maintain the following records, as
                      applicable, for a period of five (5) years and make records
                      available to the Division upon request.

                     III.D.3.g.(i) For stationary combustion turbines subject to
                             Section III.D.3.c.(i), the applicable records in 40 CFR
                             Section 63.6155 (March 9, 2022).

                     III.D.3.g.(ii) For stationary combustion turbines subject to
                             Section III.D.3.c.(ii), records of, as applicable

                            III.D.3.g.(ii)(A)    Performance tests;

                            III.D.3.g.(ii)(B)     The date, time, and duration of
                                    each startup;

                            III.D.3.g.(ii)(C)      Daily fuel usage for lean premix
                                    gas-fired stationary combustion turbines or
                                    diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion
                                    turbines that use any quantity of distillate oil;

                            III.D.3.g.(ii)(D)    Maintenance on the air pollution
                                    control equipment;

                            III.D.3.g.(ii)(E)    Records of manufacturer
                                    guarantee and owner or operator operation
                                    and maintenance in accordance with
                                    manufacturer instructions for the continuous
                                    emissions monitoring system (CEMS), if
                                    required pursuant to Section III.D.3.e.(ii) or
                                    used pursuant to III.D.3.e.(iii)(F);



                                                                                     42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.D.3.g.(ii)(F)      Records to show compliance with
                                  the catalyst inlet temperature as specified in
                                  Section III.D.3.e.(v);

                          III.D.3.g.(ii)(G)     Records of the operating plan as
                                  specified in Section III.D.3.e.(vi); and

                          III.D.3.g.(ii)(H)     Records of manufacturer
                                  specifications or equivalent related to
                                  compliance with the operation and
                                  maintenance requirement in Section III.D.3.d.

                   III.D.3.g.(iii) Records demonstrating compliance with
                           Section III.D.3.f., including

                          III.D.3.g.(iii)(A)    The date of the inspection.

                          III.D.3.g.(iii)(B)  A description of what adjustment
                                  procedures were performed.

                          III.D.3.g.(iii)(C)    A description of any corrective
                                  action taken.

                          III.D.3.g.(iii)(D)   Whether the inspection was
                                  conducted pursuant to a New Source
                                  Performance Standard or National Emission
                                  Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants, and
                                  which standard.

                   III.D.3.g.(iv) Records of CEMS monitoring, as applicable.

                   III.D.3.g.(v)   Records of the number of deviations, including

                          III.D.3.g.(v)(A)      The date, time, cause, and
                                  duration of the deviation;

                          III.D.3.g.(v)(B)      A list of the affected stationary
                                  combustion turbine(s), an estimate of the
                                  quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted
                                  over any emission limitation and a description
                                  of the method used to estimate the emissions;
                                  and

                          III.D.3.g.(v)(C)      Description of actions taken to
                                  minimize emissions and any corrective actions
                                  taken to return the affected stationary
                                  combustion turbine to normal operation.




                                                                                  43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

              III.D.3.h.      Reporting. The owner or operator of each stationary
                      combustion turbine subject to a requirement in this Section
                      III.D.3. must submit the following reports to the Division, as
                      applicable.

                     III.D.3.h.(i) For stationary combustion turbines at sources
                             specified in Section III.D.3.c.(i), the applicable reports
                             in 40 CFR Sections 63.6145 and 63.6150 (March 9,
                             2022).

                     III.D.3.h.(ii) For stationary combustion turbines subject to
                             Section III.D.3.c.(ii), owners or operators must submit
                             the following annually on a Division-approved form,

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(A)     Company name and address;

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(B)   Date of the report and beginning
                                    and ending dates of the reporting period;

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(C)    Identification of each stationary
                                    combustion turbine included in the report,
                                    including AIRS number;

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(D)      Lean premix gas-fired stationary
                                    combustion turbines or diffusion flame gas-
                                    fired stationary combustion turbines that use
                                    any quantity of distillate oil must include the
                                    number of hours distillate oil was fired during
                                    the reporting period;

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(E)     For stationary combustion
                                    turbines determining compliance using CEMS,
                                    semi-annual excess emissions reports no later
                                    than the 30th day following the end of each
                                    semi-annual period. Excess emissions means
                                    emissions that exceed the applicable
                                    limitations contained in Section III.D.3.b.(ii).
                                    Excess emission reports must include the
                                    information specified in 40 CFR Part 60,
                                    Section 60.7(c) (February 12, 1999); and

                            III.D.3.h.(ii)(F)     For each deviation,

                                    III.D.3.h.(ii)(F)(1)  The start date, start time,
                                            duration, and cause of each deviation,
                                            and the corrective action taken;




                                                                                     44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                           III.D.3.h.(ii)(F)(2)  A list of the affected
                                                   stationary combustion turbine(s), an
                                                   estimate of the quantity of each
                                                   regulated pollutant emitted over any
                                                   emission limit, and a description of the
                                                   method used to estimate the emissions;

                                           III.D.3.h.(ii)(F)(3)  Information on the
                                                   number, duration, and cause for monitor
                                                   downtime incidents (including unknown
                                                   cause, if applicable, other than
                                                   downtime associated with zero and
                                                   span and other daily calibration checks),
                                                   as applicable, and the corrective action
                                                   taken; and

                                           III.D.3.h.(ii)(F)(4)  The total operating time of
                                                   the stationary combustion turbine during
                                                   the reporting period.

                                  III.D.3.h.(ii)(G)      Each report must be
                                          accompanied by a certification by a
                                          responsible official that, based on the
                                          information and belief formed after reasonable
                                          inquiry, the statements and information in the
                                          document are true, accurate, and complete.

    III.E. Hydrogen sulfide

          III.E.1.         Applicability

                     III.E.1.a.     An owner or operator of a stationary source that (1)
                             commenced construction before June 14, 2026; (2) is an
                             asphalt processing plant, has asphalt roofing plant
                             operations, or operates an anaerobic digester; and (3) has
                             actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide at or above 10,000
                             pounds per year (lb/yr).

                           III.E.1.a.(i) The stationary source’s actual annual
                                   hydrogen sulfide emissions are determined as
                                   follows:

                                  III.E.1.a.(i)(A) The highest stationary source-wide
                                          actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide recorded
                                          on the stationary source’s 2023, 2024, or 2025
                                          TAC report (as available). If the stationary
                                          source did not submit a 2023, 2024, or 2025
                                          TAC report, the emissions are based on the



                                                                                           45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  most recent Air Pollutant Emission Notices
                                  (APENs), excluding any cancelled APEN for
                                  points that were not operating after June 30,
                                  2026, data (if available), unless an emissions
                                  update report is received by June 30, 2026.

                           III.E.1.a.(i)(B) A stationary source may choose to
                                   determine actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide
                                   based on the three year average of the actual
                                   emissions of hydrogen sulfide recorded on the
                                   stationary source’s TAC reports for calendar
                                   years 2023, 2024, and 2025.

                           III.E.1.a.(i)(C)      A stationary source that
                                   commenced construction prior to June 14,
                                   2026, but did not commence operation as of
                                   June 14, 2026, must determine actual
                                   emissions of hydrogen sulfide based on the
                                   first 12 months after commencing operation.

              III.E.1.b.      An owner or operator of a stationary source that
                      commences construction on or after June 14, 2026, that will
                      operate an asphalt processing plant, asphalt roofing plant
                      operation, or an anaerobic digester, with forecasted actual
                      hydrogen sulfide emissions must submit the forecasted
                      hydrogen sulfide emissions as specified in Sections
                      III.E.1.b.(i) through III.E.1.b.(iii).

                    III.E.1.b.(i) Forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions
                            must be submitted in a Division-approved format with
                            the permit application.

                    III.E.1.b.(ii) If no permit application is required, the
                            forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions must be
                            submitted to the Division in a Division-approved
                            format before the source commences operation of the
                            asphalt processing plant, asphalt roofing plant
                            operation, or anaerobic digester.

                    III.E.1.b.(iii) If the forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide
                            emissions meet or exceed ten thousand (10,000)
                            pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or operator of such
                            stationary source must comply with relevant emission
                            control requirements in this Section III.E. upon
                            commencement of operation of the asphalt
                            processing plant, asphalt roofing plant operation, or
                            anaerobic digester.




                                                                                 46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

              III.E.1.c.      An owner or operator of a stationary source that
                      commences construction before June 14, 2026, that
                      undergoes a modification of an asphalt processing plant,
                      asphalt roofing plant operation, or anaerobic digester after
                      June 14, 2026, must submit the forecasted actual hydrogen
                      sulfide emissions as specified in Sections III.E.1.c.(i) through
                      III.E.1.c.(iii).

                      III.E.1.c.(i) Forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions
                              must be submitted in a Division-approved format with
                              the permit application.

                      III.E.1.c.(ii) If no permit application is required, the
                              forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions must be
                              submitted to the Division in a Division-approved
                              format before the source commences construction or
                              reconstruction on the asphalt processing plant,
                              asphalt roofing plant operation, or anaerobic digester.

                      III.E.1.c.(iii) If the forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide
                              emissions meet or exceed ten thousand (10,000)
                              pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or operator of such
                              stationary source must comply with relevant emission
                              control requirements in this Section III.E. upon
                              commencement of operation of the asphalt
                              processing plant, asphalt roofing plant operation, or
                              anaerobic digester.

              III.E.1.d.      Emissions from equipment or activities that are not
                      required to be reported on TAC reports under Regulation
                      Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. (or for ONGAEIR sources:
                      activities, emissions, or equipment not required to be
                      reported under Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.),
                      will not be considered in determining whether the stationary
                      source-wide emissions meet or exceed the hydrogen sulfide
                      emission threshold in this Section III.E.1.

              III.E.1.e.     Definitions, for purposes of determining applicability.

                      III.E.1.e.(i) “Actual emissions” (for the purposes of this
                              Part B, Section III.), has the same meaning set forth
                              in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX.

                      III.E.1.e.(ii) “ Commenced construction” for a stationary
                              source, has the same meaning set forth in Regulation
                              Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.14.




                                                                                   47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.E.1.e.(iii) “Forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions”
                            means the highest actual emissions, in tons per year,
                            at which a stationary source described in Sections
                            III.E.1.b. or III.E.1.c. is projected to emit hydrogen
                            sulfide in any one of the five calendar years (twelve-
                            month periods) including and following the
                            commencement of operation of the new or modified
                            stationary source. In determining the forecasted
                            actual hydrogen sulfide emissions, before
                            commencing construction, the owner or operator of
                            the stationary source must consider all relevant
                            information, including but not limited to, historical
                            operational data, the company's own representations,
                            the company's expected business activity and the
                            company's highest projections of business activity, the
                            company's filings with the State or Federal regulatory
                            authorities, and compliance plans.

                    III.E.1.e.(iv) “Modified” or “modification” has the same
                            meaning set forth in Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                            Section I.B.33.

                    III.E.1.e.(v) “Stationary source” has the meaning set forth
                            in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section I.B.52.

              III.E.1.f.     Recordkeeping, for the purposes of determining
                      applicability.

              The owner or operator of each stationary source as described in
              Sections III.E.1. must maintain the following records, as applicable,
              for a period of five (5) years and make records available to the
              Division upon request.

                    III.E.1.f.(i)  No later than June 30, 2026, an owner or
                            operator of a stationary source that is determining
                            applicability in accordance with Section III.E.1.a. must
                            maintain the following records.

                           III.E.1.f.(i)(A) Records of the stationary source’s
                                   actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide and the
                                   supporting methodology used to determine
                                   emissions in accordance with Section
                                   III.E.1.a.(i), and the date of the initial emissions
                                   threshold determination.

                    III.E.1.f.(ii) No later than 60 days after the first 12 calendar
                            months of operation, an owner or operator of a




                                                                                    48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                         5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                             stationary source that commenced construction prior
                             to June 14, 2026, but did not commence operation as
                             of June 14, 2026, and that determines stationary
                             source applicability in accordance with Section
                             III.E.1.a.(i)(C) must maintain records of stationary
                             source-wide actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide.

                      III.E.1.f.(iii) An owner or operator that is determining
                              stationary source applicability in accordance with
                              Section III.E.1.b. must maintain records of stationary
                              source-wide forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide
                              emissions and the date of the initial applicability
                              emission threshold determination.

                             III.E.1.f.(iii)(A)     An owner or operator that is
                                     determining applicability in accordance with
                                     Section III.E.1.b., its forecasted actual
                                     hydrogen sulfide emissions are below the
                                     10,000 lb/yr applicability threshold must
                                     maintain records of the stationary source-wide
                                     annual actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide for
                                     each of the five (5) calendar years after
                                     commencement of operation of the new
                                     stationary source.

                      III.E.1.f.(iv) An owner or operator that is determining
                              stationary source applicability in accordance with
                              Section III.E.1.c., must maintain records of stationary
                              source-wide forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide
                              emissions and the date of the initial applicability
                              emission threshold determination.

                             III.E.1.f.(iv)(A)      An owner or operator that is
                                     determining applicability in accordance with
                                     Section III.E.1.c., its forecasted actual
                                     hydrogen sulfide emissions are below the
                                     10,000 lb/yr applicability threshold must
                                     maintain records of the stationary source-wide
                                     annual actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide for
                                     each of the five (5) calendar years after
                                     commencement of operation of the modified
                                     stationary source.

                      III.E.1.f.(v) Records of reports related to applicability
                              submitted pursuant to Section III.E.1.h.

              III.E.1.g.     Reports related to applicability.




                                                                                   49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                       5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                   III.E.1.g.(i) Emission update report: No later than June 30,
                           2026, if an owner or operator assessing stationary
                           source-wide emissions in accordance with Section
                           III.E.1.a. elects to use the emission update
                           mechanism in Section III.E.1.a.(i)(A) and stationary
                           source-wide actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide are
                           below 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or
                           operator must submit an update to previously
                           reported emissions in a Division-approved format.

                          III.E.1.g.(i)(A) The emissions update must verify that
                                  the stationary source-wide actual emissions
                                  are below the hydrogen sulfide emissions
                                  threshold of 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr)
                                  based on calendar year 2025 actual emissions,
                                  or based on the three year average of the
                                  actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide recorded
                                  on the stationary source’s TAC reports for
                                  calendar years 2023, 2024, and 2025, in
                                  accordance with procedures and exemptions
                                  set forth in Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                                  Section IX., or Regulation Number 7, Part B,
                                  Section V.

                   III.E.1.g.(ii) Notice of Applicability for an existing stationary
                           source that had not yet commenced operation as of
                           June 14, 2026: No later than 60 days after the first 12
                           months of operation, for an owner or operator of a
                           stationary source that commenced construction prior
                           to June 14, 2026, but had not yet commenced
                           operation as of that date, and the stationary source-
                           wide actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide meet or
                           exceed 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), the owner or
                           operator must:

                          III.E.1.g.(ii)(A)      Submit a notification of
                                  applicability to the Division which verifies the
                                  calendar year of actual emissions of hydrogen
                                  sulfide from the first 12 months after
                                  commencing operation met or exceeded10,000
                                  pounds per year (lb/yr); and

                          III.E.1.g.(ii)(B)     Comply with any applicable
                                  requirements in this Section III.E. within one
                                  hundred and eighty (180) days of the date the
                                  notification was due.




                                                                                  50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          III.E.1.g.(iii) Notice of Applicability for a new stationary
                                  source: If a stationary source’s forecasted actual
                                  hydrogen sulfide emissions are below 10,000 pounds
                                  per year (lb/yr), and the source subsequently has
                                  actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide at or above
                                  10,000 lb/yr in any of the first five (5) calendar years
                                  after operation, no later than March 1 of the
                                  subsequent calendar year where actual emissions of
                                  hydrogen sulfide meet or exceed 10,000 pounds per
                                  year (lb/yr), the owner or operator must submit a
                                  notification of applicability in a Division-approved
                                  format which verifies the calendar year of actual
                                  emissions of hydrogen sulfide that met or exceeded
                                  10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr).

                                 III.E.1.g.(iii)(A)    The owner or operator of such
                                         stationary source must comply with any
                                         applicable requirements in this Section III.E.
                                         within one hundred and eighty (180) days of
                                         the date the notification was due.

                          III.E.1.g.(iv) Notice of Applicability after a stationary source
                                  modifies: If a stationary source’s forecasted actual
                                  hydrogen sulfide emissions are below 10,000 pounds
                                  per year (lb/yr), and the source subsequently has
                                  actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide at or above
                                  10,000 lb/yr in any of the first five (5) calendar years
                                  after operation, no later than March 1 of the
                                  subsequent calendar year where actual emissions of
                                  hydrogen sulfide meet or exceed 10,000 pounds per
                                  year (lb/yr), the owner or operator must:

                                 III.E.1.g.(iv)(A)      Submit a notification of
                                         applicability to the Division which verifies the
                                         calendar year of actual emissions of hydrogen
                                         sulfide that met or exceeded 10,000 pounds
                                         per year (lb/yr); and

                                 III.E.1.g.(iv)(B)     Comply with any applicable
                                         requirements in this Section III.E. within one
                                         hundred and eighty (180) days of the date the
                                         notification was due.

         III.E.2.         Exemptions for categorical hydrogen sulfide requirements

                    III.E.2.a.    The owner or operator of a stationary source that is
                            an asphalt processing plant or has asphalt roofing plant




                                                                                          51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          operations and that has submitted a permit application
                          seeking a source‑wide hydrogen sulfide emission limit below
                          10,000 pounds per year that has been received and deemed
                          administratively complete by the Division as of June 14,
                          2026, is exempt from Section III.E., provided that:

                          III.E.2.a.(i) The owner or operator cooperates with the
                                  Division to obtain permit(s) limiting hydrogen sulfide
                                  emissions to below 10,000 pounds per year;

                          III.E.2.a.(ii) The owner or operator begins construction on
                                  any control devices necessary to meet the permitted
                                  limit(s) within 6 months of permit issuance; and

                          III.E.2.a.(iii) The stationary source’s actual hydrogen sulfide
                                  emissions, after commencing operation of the control
                                  devices authorized by the final permit, remain below
                                  10,000 pounds per year.

                    III.E.2.b.     Equipment or activities that are not required to be
                            reported on TAC reports under Regulation Number 3, Part A,
                            Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.
                            are not subject to the requirements in Section III.E.

         III.E.3.         Definitions for categorical hydrogen sulfide requirements

                    III.E.3.a.     “Anaerobic digester” means a biological treatment
                            system that decomposes organic materials such as manure
                            anaerobically in the absence of oxygen to produce biogas.
                            The generated biogas is made up of methane (CH4), carbon
                            dioxide (CO2), and digestate, a nutrient-rich byproduct.
                            During this process, sulfur-containing compounds in the
                            feedstock are broken down by sulfate-reducing bacteria,
                            generating H2S as a byproduct.

                    III.E.3.b.     “Asphalt processing plant” has the same meaning as
                            40 CFR Part 60, Subpart UU, Section 60.471 (October 17,
                            2000).

                    III.E.3.c.    “Asphalt processing operation” has the same meaning
                            as 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart AAAAAAA, Section 63.11556
                            (November 19, 2020).

                    III.E.3.d.     “Asphalt roofing plant” has the same meaning as 40
                            CFR, Part 60, Subpart UU, Section 60.471 (October 17,
                            2000).




                                                                                           52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                    III.E.3.e.    “Asphalt roofing manufacturing operation” has the
                            same meaning as 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart AAAAAAA,
                            Section 63.11556 (November 19, 2020).

         III.E.4.         Emission limitations

                    III.E.4.a.      Asphalt processing plants and asphalt roofing plant
                            operations. Beginning March 15, 2027, or upon
                            commencement of operation if such date is after June 14,
                            2026, or upon such date as specified in Section III.E.1.g.,
                            owners or operators of a stationary source described in
                            Sections III.E.1.a. or III.E.1.b. or III.E.1.c. with asphalt
                            processing plant or asphalt roofing plant operations must
                            utilize an abatement device (e.g., regenerative thermal
                            oxidizer(s)) to control hydrogen sulfide emissions from
                            asphalt manufacturing operations including such emissions
                            from any tanks used for storage, surge, or mixing; coating or
                            applicator equipment; sealant; and any loadout racks.

                          III.E.4.a.(i) The owner or operator must install and operate
                                  an emissions abatement device designed to achieve
                                  either a minimum hydrogen sulfide destruction
                                  efficiency of 97% or a minimum VOC destruction
                                  efficiency of 97%.

                          III.E.4.a.(ii) The owner or operator must conduct initial
                                  performance testing to demonstrate the destruction
                                  efficiency of either hydrogen sulfide or VOCs within
                                  180 days of commencement of operation of the
                                  abatement device. If the owner or operator elects to
                                  demonstrate compliance via VOC destruction
                                  efficiency, such results will serve as a surrogate for
                                  hydrogen sulfide control performance. The pollutant
                                  selected for testing must be identified in a test
                                  protocol submitted to the Division for approval before
                                  conducting the test.

                          III.E.4.a.(iii) The owner or operator must maintain the
                                  thermal oxidizer’s, or other abatement device’s, 3-
                                  hour average combustion zone temperature at or
                                  above the operating value established during the
                                  most recent emission test as specified in 40 CFR Part
                                  63, Subpart AAAAAAA, Table 4 (March 18, 2010).

                          Any installed abatement device must be operated in
                          accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and a
                          Division approved operation and maintenance plan.




                                                                                       53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

         III.E.5.          Work practices

                    III.E.5.a.     Asphalt processing plants and asphalt roofing plant
                            operations. Beginning June 14, 2026, or upon
                            commencement of operation if such date is after June 14,
                            2026, or upon such date as specified in Section III.E.1.g.,
                            owners or operators of a stationary source described in
                            Sections III.E.1.a or III.E.1.b. or III.E.1.c., with asphalt
                            processing operations or asphalt roofing manufacturing
                            operations must comply with the following best management
                            practices to minimize hydrogen sulfide emissions from
                            asphalt processing operations or asphalt roofing
                            manufacturing operations.

                           III.E.5.a.(i) Upon commencement of operation of the
                                   abatement device required under Section III.E.4.a.,
                                   conduct inspection and maintenance as
                                   recommended by the manufacturer.

                           III.E.5.a.(ii) Conduct weekly visual inspections of asphalt
                                   processing or asphalt roofing manufacturing
                                   operations and perform maintenance on equipment
                                   as necessary.

                           III.E.5.a.(iii) Inspect and replace filters on asphalt
                                   processing or asphalt roofing manufacturing
                                   operations in accordance with the manufacturer’s
                                   specifications and a Division-approved operation and
                                   maintenance plan (e.g., monthly, yearly).

                           III.E.5.a.(iv) Conduct and record inspection and
                                   maintenance on the asphalt storage and surge tanks,
                                   as follows:

                                  III.E.5.a.(iv)(A)     Daily visual inspections.

                                  III.E.5.a.(iv)(B)    Conduct routine inspections and
                                          cleaning; however, the interval between
                                          cleanings must not exceed five years.

                                  III.E.5.a.(iv)(C)   Perform structural thickness
                                          measurements in accordance with current
                                          manufacturer’s specifications and schedule.

                    III.E.5.b.      Anaerobic digesters. Beginning June 14, 2026, unless
                            implementation date is otherwise specified in Section
                            III.E.1.g., owners or operators of a stationary source
                            described in Sections III.E.1.a or III.E.1.b. or III.E.1.c. with



                                                                                         54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                   anaerobic digesters that use manure as a feedstock for the
                   digester must comply with the following best management
                   practices to minimize emissions of hydrogen sulfide.

                   III.E.5.b.(i) The owner or operator must continuously inject
                           a non-corrosive hydrogen sulfide-control additive into
                           the manure handling or storage system during
                           transfer operations. The injection rate must be
                           operationally optimized based on the manure flow
                           rate to maintain hydrogen sulfide concentrations at or
                           below 500 ppm prior to the abatement device. The
                           owner or operator must submit a proposed operation
                           and maintenance plan for Division approval that
                           defines, at a minimum, the specific parameters for
                           additive selection, injection points, and flow‑rate
                           optimization.

                   III.E.5.b.(ii) During periods of system startup and, if there
                           are malfunctions that delay the movement of the
                           manure from the uncovered receiving pit or if
                           uncovered storage pits will hold manure for longer
                           than 1 day prior to moving into the covered storage
                           tanks, non-corrosive hydrogen sulfide-control additive
                           must also be added to these pit areas at a rate to be
                           determined based on the volume of the manure in the
                           pits.

                   III.E.5.b.(iii) Regularly remove manure from the manure
                           truck unloading pit or to the manure storage pit before
                           they are routed to the manure storage tanks as often
                           as possible but at a minimum of once per day to limit
                           biological and chemical conditions favoring hydrogen
                           sulfide formation and minimize fugitive hydrogen
                           sulfide release.

                   III.E.5.b.(iv) During periods of tank maintenance or
                           cleaning, deliveries to the receiving pit must be halted
                           only if the remaining operational storage capacity is
                           insufficient to contain incoming volumes. Deliveries
                           must be halted if all storage tanks are out of service
                           for cleaning for a period exceeding 24 hours.

                   III.E.5.b.(v) If there is a malfunction or shutdown of the
                           digesters or storage tank and pump that prevent the
                           manure from being moved out of the uncovered truck
                           unloading pit or storage pits and into the covered




                                                                                55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                      5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                          storage tanks for more than 1 day, deliveries must be
                          halted until normal operations can resume.

                   III.E.5.b.(vi) Maintain negative pressure and prevent gas
                           buildup and corrosion in the manure storage tank(s)
                           by interconnecting the vapor head space of the
                           tank(s) to the nearest covered anaerobic digester.

                   III.E.5.b.(vii) Maintain the inflated covers on the anaerobic
                           digester tank(s) that collects and stores digester gas
                           prior to transfer to the biogas transfer blower(s) or
                           compressor station(s) in a manner consistent with
                           recommendations by the manufacturer and with the
                           requirements of the Division-approved operations and
                           maintenance plan.

                   III.E.5.b.(viii) Operate and maintain approved filtration
                           equipment per the manufacturers’ recommendation.

                   III.E.5.b.(ix) Maintain a cover on the anaerobic lagoon
                           system.

                   III.E.5.b.(x) Operate and maintain the flare per the
                           manufacturers’ recommendation.

                   III.E.5.b.(xi) Route all gases from the anaerobic digester
                           tanks to the biogas upgrade system or to a flare.
                           Following the upgrade process, the resulting gas must
                           be injected into the natural gas pipeline or, if the gas
                           is off-spec or the pipeline is unavailable, routed to a
                           flare.

                   III.E.5.b.(xii) Continuous hydrogen sulfide monitors must be
                           operated and maintained in accordance with the
                           manufacturer’s recommendations and the
                           Division‑approved operation and maintenance plan at
                           the fenceline to monitor fugitive emissions. Failure to
                           operate a monitor according to these requirements
                           must be reported to the Division within an approved
                           timeframe.

                   III.E.5.b.(xiii) The owner or operator must install and operate
                           a Division approved continuous emission monitoring
                           system or process analysis system, combined with a
                           gas flow meter to measure concentrations of
                           hydrogen sulfide (H2S) from the anaerobic digester
                           outlet/H2S scrubber. Any installed continuous




                                                                                56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                                  emission monitoring system or process analysis
                                  system must be operated in accordance with the
                                  manufacturer’s recommendations and a
                                  Division‑approved operation and maintenance plan.
                                  Additionally, any installed process analysis system
                                  must undergo Quality Assurance/Quality Control
                                  (QA/QC) testing following the guidelines in the latest
                                  approved version of the “Guidelines for State-Only
                                  Required Continuous Monitoring Systems in the State
                                  of Colorado.”

         III.E.6.          Recordkeeping. The following records must be kept for a
                    period of five (5) years and made available to the Division upon
                    request.

                    III.E.6.a.      Records demonstrating compliance with the
                            applicable emissions limitation requirements in Section
                            III.E.4., as well as records of all maintenance and repairs
                            conducted.

                    III.E.6.b.     Records demonstrating compliance with the
                            applicable best management practices in Section III.E.5.

                    III.E.6.c.     Records of all versions of operations and
                            maintenance plans and any reports or performance tests
                            required under Section III.E.7.

         III.E.7.          Reporting

                    III.E.7.a.      Beginning June 30, 2027, and annually thereafter, or
                            within one year of commencing operation, or modifying, if
                            after June 14, 2026, and annually thereafter, owners or
                            operators of stationary sources described in Sections
                            III.E.1.a., III.E.1.b., or III.E.1.c. with anaerobic digesters
                            incorporating manure as a feedstock must submit an annual
                            compliance report that covers the previous calendar year the
                            following in a Division-approved format. The report must
                            include the following:

                           III.E.7.a.(i) Company Information: Include the facility
                                   name, address, owner or operator name.

                           III.E.7.a.(ii) Any deviations from the required H2S ppm
                                   value noted in Section III.E.5.b.(i), including the date
                                   of the occurrence, the duration of the occurrence, the
                                   cause of the occurrence, explanation of any corrective




                                                                                          57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

                              actions, and a copy of the record(s) where the
                              deviation was recorded.

                       III.E.7.a.(iii) The total number of startup or malfunction
                               occurrences, and the duration of each such
                               occurrence, that prevented the manure from being
                               routed to the storage tanks for periods longer than
                               noted in Sections III.E.5.b.(ii) and III.E.6.b.(iii). For
                               each occurrence, provide a discussion of any
                               corrective actions taken to resolve these operational
                               concerns. This discussion shall include an indication
                               of any precautions taken during those periods to
                               minimize fugitive emissions through either delivery
                               adjustments or additional pit additives.

                       III.E.7.a.(iv) The number and dates of any readings of
                               fugitive monitors that exceed the alarm levels noted in
                               the latest approved operations and maintenance plan,
                               as well as an explanation of any corrective actions.

                       III.E.7.a.(v) An explanation of any procedures from the
                               stationary source’s operations and maintenance plan
                               that were not followed during the reporting period and
                               any corrective actions taken.

                       III.E.7.a.(vi) A certification that the procedures in the latest
                               Division-approved operations and maintenance plan
                               were followed, if applicable.

                III.E.7.b.     Beginning June 30, 2027, and annually thereafter, or
                        within one year of commencing operation if after June 14,
                        2026, and annually thereafter, owners or operators of
                        stationary sources described in Sections III.E.1.a or III.E.1.b.
                        with asphalt processing plants, asphalt processing
                        operations, asphalt roofing plants, or asphalt roofing
                        manufacturing operations must submit an annual compliance
                        report that covers the previous calendar year the following in
                        a Division-approved format. The report must include the
                        following:

                       III.E.7.b.(i) Company Information: Include the facility
                               name, address, owner or operator name.

                       III.E.7.b.(ii) Any deviations from the destruction efficiency
                               or operational parameters monitored under Section
                               III.E.4.a.

    III.F. Non-Categorical Existing Stationary Source Requirements



                                                                                       58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

         III.F.1.           Non-Categorical Reporting Requirements

                    III.F.1.a.      METAL CONTAINER CORP (AIRS ID: 123-0134),
                            must submit the analysis in Section III.F.2. or, no later than
                            September 1, 2026, submit a detailed emissions report on a
                            Division approved form to the Division that demonstrates the
                            stationary source’s actual emissions, as of calendar year
                            2025, are below 4,000 lb/yr of formaldehyde or a certification
                            that the stationary source’s location does not meet either of
                            the location criteria noted in Sections III.D.1.a.(i) or
                            III.D.1.a.(ii).

                    III.F.1.b.      No later than September 1, 2026, CF & I STEEL L.P.
                            DBA EVRAZ ROCKY MTN STEEL (AIRS ID: 101-0048)
                            must submit a detailed emissions report on a Division
                            approved form using a Division-approved testing method to
                            update its formaldehyde emission estimates or a certification
                            that the stationary source’s location does not meet either of
                            the location criteria noted in Sections III.D.1.a.(i) or
                            III.D.1.a.(ii).

                    III.F.1.c.       The emissions reports required under this Section
                            III.F.1. that estimate the actual annual emissions for
                            calendar year 2025 emissions of formaldehyde must be
                            submitted on a Division-approved form and in accordance
                            with allowable procedures and exemptions set forth in
                            Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX.

         III.F.2.           Non-Categorical Analysis Requirements

         No later than October 31, 2027, the stationary source subject to this
         requirement pursuant to Section III.F.1.a. of this Part B must submit to the
         Division a one-time analysis of cost effective and technically feasible
         measures to reduce applicable PTAC emissions. Measures for reducing
         emissions may include:

                    III.F.2.a.    Installation of control technologies.

                    III.F.2.b.    Lower or non-emitting alternative processes.

                    III.F.2.c.    Material substitutions.




                                                                                         59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


PART C        Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose

I.      Adopted: January 17, 2025

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complied with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act §§ 25-7-110, -110.5, and -110.8
C.R.S. (the State Air Act), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. § 1001-1.

Basis

In 2022, the General Assembly adopted House Bill (HB) 22-1244 (Public Protections
from Toxic Air Contaminants), now codified primarily in § 25-7-109.5, C.R.S. § 25-7-
109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S. directs the Commission to adopt rules that identify up to five
priority toxic air contaminants (PTACs) by no later than April 30, 2025.

The Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 30 to meet the statutory directive
at § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S.

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically § 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in § 25-7-102, C.R.S. and that are necessary for the proper implementation
and administration of the State Air Act. § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S. directs the
Commission to, by no later than April 30, 2025, identify up to five PTACs, considering:

I.      Existing data concerning toxic air contaminants gathered through the Air
        Pollution Control Division (Division) Monitoring programs;

II.     Data reported to the Division concerning emissions of toxic air pollutants;

III.    Data reported to the federal toxics release inventory pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §
        11023 and data prepared by the federal environmental protection agency's (EPA)
        air toxics screening assessment (AirToxScreens) program;

IV.     Any other relevant data submitted to the Commission during the rule-making
        process concerning the amount of emissions and concentrations of toxic air
        contaminants in the ambient air of the state, including data collected through
        community-led monitoring programs; and

V.      Input from the scientific community.




                                                                                         60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

As directed in § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S., the Commission adopted a new Regulation
Number 30, which identifies five PTACs.

Regulation Number 30 Regulatory Language and Outline

In Part A, General Provisions for Toxic Air Contaminants, the Commission adopted
necessary definitions. In Part B, Identification of Priority Toxic Air Contaminants, Section
1, the Commission identified five PTACs.

Prioritization Framework

The Commission adopted the five PTACs based on a prioritization framework
developed by Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) staff.
This prioritization framework involved input from a scientific community technical
working group, feedback from stakeholders, and months of research and data analysis,
consistent with the requirements set forth in § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S.

CDPHE staff collected data on statewide toxic air contaminants (TACs), following
requirements in § 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(I), C.R.S. These data sources included existing data
concerning toxic air pollutants gathered through Division monitoring programs, data
reported to the Division concerning emission of toxic air pollutants, data reported to or
prepared by the EPA for the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) and EPA’s AirToxScreen
program, data collected through community-led monitoring programs, and input from the
scientific community. These data sources were supplemented with additional monitoring
and modeled data suggested by the scientific community technical working group, and
data from the first annual reporting cycle of TAC that was required under § 25-7-
109.5(4)(a), C.R.S.

Using these data to understand the prevalence of different TACs in Colorado, staff then
estimated cancer and non-cancer health risks using pollutant-specific toxicity values.
These toxicity values were adjusted slightly during the rulemaking process based on
updates that EPA made to its regional screening level (RSL) table in November 2024.
Toxicity values are numerical indicators of the potential of a chemical to cause harmful
effects and are specific to either cancer or non-cancer health impacts. Cancer and non-
cancer health impacts are analyzed separately due to differences in dose-response
modeling. Chemicals that cause non-cancer impacts are generally considered to have a
threshold below which there are no health effects. By contrast, even small exposures to
chemicals that cause cancer are thought to increase a person’s cancer risk.

Non-cancer health impacts are expressed as a Hazard Quotient (HQ). A HQ below 1
indicates that negative health effects are not expected. If the HQ exceeds 1, adverse
health effects may be more likely to occur. Cancer health impacts i.e., the increased
potential to develop cancer–is expressed as the increased risk of cancer per 1 million
people.




                                                                                         61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

For pollutants with adequate monitored or modeled data from the sources described
above, the Division calculated screening level risk estimates for both cancer and non-
cancer health impacts using the pollutant-specific toxicity values. This analysis showed
a measure of health risk based on modeled or monitored ambient concentrations of
certain TACs.

CDPHE staff then assigned groupings to TACs using a tiered health risk approach. For
the purposes of prioritization, CDPHE used a cancer screening risk level of greater than
or equal to 1 in 1 million excess cancer cases. For non-cancer health impacts, CDPHE
used a screening risk level of a HQ of greater than or equal to 0.1. The threshold of a
HQ of 0.1 is commonly used during screening when multiple chemicals are present.
Though negative health impacts are not expected for a single chemical at an HQ of 0.1,
it is used in screening in order to account for exposures to multiple chemicals that could
act together to cause negative health impacts.

Once the pollutants meeting or exceeding the screening levels for modeled or
monitored data were identified, staff considered additional factors in analyzing those
pollutants. The Division compared the existing monitored or modeled data from the list
of approximately 40 pollutants to the various reporting program datasets it had available
(e.g., APEN, National Emissions Inventory (NEI) and TRI). The emissions reported in
each dataset were weighted by a relative toxicity factor from the EPA Risk Screening
Environmental Indicator (RSEI) model. These toxicity-weighted emissions were ranked
from highest to lowest. All of the top 11 toxicity-weighted pollutants in each dataset were
also identified in the list of 40 pollutants screened in the aforementioned risk thresholds,
further supporting the potential prioritization of pollutants on that list.

For modeled risk, staff evaluated the predominant source of each TAC that fell into this
category. TACs predominantly from sources that the Commission has authority to
regulate were prioritized over TACs predominantly resulting from sources outside the
scope of Commission rules (e.g., biogenic sources and wildfires). Separately, staff
limited its assessment for modeled risk to non-mobile sources. This was done to narrow
the list of potential TACs to no more than five PTACs, consistent with the statutory
direction. Staff determined that excluding mobile source emissions was reasonable
because § 25-7-109.5(7)(b)(II), C.R.S. specifically directs the Commissions to consider
stationary source emissions in developing emission control regulations for PTACs and
because § 25-7-109.5(8)(a), C.R.S. specifically directs the Division to assess its needs
to administer a PTAC stationary source permitting program. Additionally, Colorado is
currently pursuing several incentive and regulatory programs to reduce emissions from
mobile sources, such as state enterprises created under Senate Bill 21-260, including
the Clean Fleet Enterprise, Nonattainment Area Pollution Mitigation Enterprise, Clean
Transit Enterprise and Community Access Enterprise, the Colorado Clean Cars
Program and the Advanced Clean Trucks and Heavy-Duty Low NOx rules. These
mobile source programs are anticipated to begin achieving significant reductions of
TACs as a co-benefit. These modeled risks were then ranked from highest to lowest for
cancer risk and non-cancer HQ.




                                                                                         62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

Over three meetings with the scientific community technical working group, staff posed
questions and gathered feedback from group members on the prioritization framework.
Specifically, the group provided insight into quantifying risk from monitored and modeled
data, how to develop a risk-based framework, use of different toxicity values, and which
health effects to focus on during prioritization of TACs. Group members also
supplemented additional scientific research and sources of monitoring and modeling
data to be used in the prioritization framework.

Using the prioritization framework, staff identified three PTACs that had an estimated
HQ over 1 for non-cancer health impacts or over 100 in 1 million cancer risk. These
were acrolein, ethylene oxide, and hydrogen sulfide. Staff then considered populations
exposed to TACs that ranked among the top five modeled risks for cancer or non-
cancer to assess risk based on how many people may be impacted by these pollutants,
including how many of those people are located in a disproportionately impacted
community as prioritized in the Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation
(Reg.) 3 Disproportionately Impacted Community Layer in Version 1.0 of Colorado
EnviroScreen. The Division used this layer because it was designed to prioritize areas
that are relevant for stationary source regulations, and staff focused on stationary
source emissions in selecting the PTAC. Using census block and block group averages
from AirToxScreen 2020 data, staff estimated the number of people exposed to TACs
from non-mobile, anthropogenic sources of emissions. This analysis allowed staff to
identify three additional pollutants, formaldehyde, benzene, and hexavalent chromium,
for prioritization, over others with similar risk characterizations, given the exposure and
risk posed to more people state-wide. The Commission prioritized formaldehyde over
acrolein based on this population exposure analysis and feedback and data submitted
during the rulemaking process.

Identification of Five Priority Toxic Air Contaminants

Applying the foregoing analysis, the Commission adopted benzene, chromium
compounds (hexavalent), ethylene oxide (EtO), formaldehyde and hydrogen sulfide
(H2S) as the initial five PTACs.

Benzene

Benzene emissions met the screening threshold of over 1 in 1 million cancer risk based
on the estimated health risk from both monitoring and modeling data. Benzene is a
federally designated HAP. In Colorado, based on the EPA AirToxScreen modeling
results for human-caused, non-mobile sources, and considering adjustments made to
correct for inventory data used in the AirToxScreen modeling, benzene was among the
top five highest cancer risk based on AirToxScreen 2019 and among the top six highest
cancer risk based on AirToxScreen 2020 modeling results. In addition to this pollutant
ranking among the highest modeled cancer risk pollutants, staff further prioritized this
pollutant based on population-level exposures, finding there are approximately 180
people, of which 157 are located in a disproportionately impacted community, exposed
to benzene in Colorado at levels with an estimated risk of at least 10 excess cancer
cases per million people. There are also 1.4 million people, of which 697,000 are



                                                                                         63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

located in a disproportionately impacted community, exposed to benzene in Colorado at
levels with an estimated risk of between 1 and 10 excess cancer cases per million
people.

In addition to the modeled cancer risk, the available annual average monitoring data for
over 100 different monitored benzene concentrations is in the 1-10 per million excess
cancer cases range for the most part. Specifically, the available monitoring data ranges
from 1 to 27 per million excess cancer cases, with a mean of approximately 6 per million
excess cancer cases. Benzene is a volatile organic compound (VOC), a class of
chemicals released into the air from numerous sources, including vehicle exhaust,
cleaning products, paint, and gasoline. In Colorado, oil and gas operations, along with
other industrial activities, are significant sources of benzene emissions. Benzene is
naturally present in crude oil and natural gas, and significant emissions occur during
various stages of the handling of crude oil and natural gas. During the extraction
process, benzene is released when oil and gas is brought to the surface, as the volatile
compounds are exposed to the atmosphere. In the refining process, crude oil is
separated into different products, releasing benzene during the breakdown of
hydrocarbons. Similarly, when natural gas is processed for sale, benzene may be
released during various processing steps. Storage and transportation of oil and gas also
contribute to benzene emissions, especially if containment systems are not properly
sealed, allowing volatile compounds to escape into the air. Additionally, benzene
emissions occur from combustion of wood including residential burning and forest fires.
Chronic exposure to benzene may cause disorders in the blood by affecting bone
marrow. Aplastic anemia (a risk factor for a specific type of leukemia), excessive
bleeding, and damage to the immune system (by changes in blood levels of antibodies
and loss of white blood cells) may develop. Benzene exposure may cause structural
and numerical chromosomal abnormalities. Animal and human studies have provided
evidence that exposure to benzene may impact reproductive and developmental
organs. The EPA classifies benzene as a carcinogen. Long term exposure to benzene
can cause leukemia. There have also been studies that show an association between
benzene exposure and types of lymphoma, myeloma, and lung cancers.

Chromium

Chromium compounds, hexavalent, also called hexavalent chromium, had an estimated
excess cancer risk that met the screening threshold of over 1 in 1 million cancer risk
based on the estimated health risk from modeled data after corrections to inventory data
were made. Chromium compounds are federally designated HAPs and hexavalent
chromium is a state designated HAP under § 25-7-109.3(5)(a) C.R.S. In Colorado,
based on the EPA AirToxScreen modeling results for human-caused, non-mobile
sources, and considering adjustments made to correct for inventory data used in the
AirToxScreen modeling, hexavalent chromium was among the top five highest cancer
risk based on AirToxScreen 2019 and 2020. Staff further prioritized this pollutant based
on population-level exposures, finding that, based on the updated RSL values and EPA
AirToxScreen 2020 modeling results for human-caused, non-mobile sources,
approximately 33 people, all of which are located in a disproportionately impacted
community, are exposed to hexavalent chromium at levels with an estimated risk of at



                                                                                     64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

least 10 excess cancer cases per million people and 7,800 people, of which 5,400 are
located in a disproportionately impacted community, are exposed to hexavalent
chromium at levels with an estimated risk of between 1 and 10 excess cancer cases per
million people. This population exposure is the next highest after benzene among
pollutants that had the top five highest modeled cancer or non-cancer health impacts,
with the exception of formaldehyde.

Hexavalent chromium is generated when chromium compounds combine with other
elements during industrial processes. These compounds are widely used in various
manufacturing applications, such as in the production of metal alloys (i.e., stainless
steel, brass, aluminum, or plastic) and in decorative chromium electroplating for car
parts, furniture, hydraulic cylinders, and aircraft landing gears. Hexavalent chromium is
also utilized in anodizing operations to prevent corrosion in aerospace components and
their machined parts. Hexavalent chromium is released into the air during the
combustion of oil, natural gas, coal, and in certain manufacturing processes, including
cement and hazardous waste facilities. Cigarette smoke and industrial emissions from
metal processing are additional sources. Furthermore, it is released from plating tanks
through control devices and vents, windows, and doors as fugitive emissions during
chrome plating operations.

Coal-fired power plants are the largest emitter in Colorado followed by fabricated metal
product manufacturing, particularly processes used in electroplating operations and
abrasive blasting of metal parts. The sources driving the highest risk from hexavalent
chromium are these smaller sources due to their proximity to more densely populated
areas. Chronic exposure to hexavalent chromium may cause respiratory effects,
including perforations and ulcerations of the septum, bronchitis, decreased pulmonary
function, pneumonia, asthma, and nasal itching or soreness. There is limited evidence
that exposure to hexavalent chromium may result in complications during pregnancy
and childbirth. Epidemiological studies of workers have found clear associations
between chromium exposure and lung cancer. EPA, DHHS, and IARC have all
classified hexavalent chromium as a carcinogen.

Ethylene Oxide

Ethylene oxide (EtO) emissions had an estimated cancer risk exceeding 100 in 1 million
exposed people, based on the estimated health risk from both modeling data, including
only human-caused, non-mobile sources, and monitoring data in the state. EtO is a
federally designated HAP. EtO is a colorless gas, used in making a range of products
such as antifreeze, textiles, plastics, detergents, and adhesives. EtO is also used to
sterilize equipment and plastic devices, often medical equipment, unable to be cleaned
by steam. In Colorado, sterilizers located in commercial sterilization facilities, or
supporting other industrial processes or research and development applications, are the
largest contributors to EtO emissions. The storage of sterilized materials is also one
source of emissions.

While the EPA finalized a regulation on April 5, 2024, see 89 Fed. Reg. 24090, to
reduce emissions from four existing commercial sterilizers as well as any new sterilizer



                                                                                       65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

facility that should be built in the state, there are other sources of EtO in the state that
are not covered by EPA’s rule. Additionally, this PTAC had the highest estimated cancer
risk of any pollutant in the state. Chronic exposure to EtO may cause eye, skin, and
respiratory irritation, as well as impacts to the nervous system, including headache,
nausea, memory loss, and numbness. EtO exposure may cause an increased rate of
miscarriages as well as other reproductive effects. The EPA classifies EtO as a
carcinogen. EtO has been shown to cause lymphoid cancer and breast cancer in
humans.

Formaldehyde

Formaldehyde met the screening threshold of over 1 in 1 million cancer risk based on
the estimated health risk from both monitoring and modeling data. Additionally,
formaldehyde met the screening threshold of an HQ over 0.1 from both monitoring and
modeling data. Formaldehyde is a federally-designated HAP. Formaldehyde is a
colorless, flammable gas at room temperature with a strong, pungent odor and is highly
reactive and is classified as a VOC. In Colorado, based on the EPA AirToxScreen
modeling results for human-caused, non-mobile sources, and considering adjustments
made to correct for inventory data used in the AirToxScreen modeling, formaldehyde
was among the top five highest cancer risk based on AirToxScreen 2019 and
AirToxScreen 2020 modeling results. Formaldehyde also had the sixth highest HQ for
AirToxScreen 2020 modeling results.

In addition to this pollutant ranking among the highest modeled cancer risk pollutants,
staff further prioritized this pollutant based on population-level exposures, finding there
are approximately 400,000 people, of which 2,000 are located in a disproportionately
impacted community, exposed to formaldehyde from human-caused, non-mobile
sources in Colorado at levels with an estimated risk of at least 10 excess cancer cases
per million people. There are also 4.15 million people, of which 93,000 are located in a
disproportionately impacted community, exposed to formaldehyde in Colorado at levels
with an estimated risk of between 1 and 10 excess cancer cases per million people.
Some of this same population, approximately 229,000 people, of which 2,000 are
located in a disproportionately impacted community, is also exposed to an HQ between
0.1 and 0.6. In addition to the modeled cancer risk, the available annual average
monitoring data for 13 different monitored formaldehyde observations ranges from 15 to
57 per million excess cancer cases, with a mean of approximately 38 per million excess
cancer cases. For monitored HQ, the available data is in the range of 0.17 - 0.63 with a
mean of 0.41 HQ.

In Colorado, formaldehyde is a notable byproduct of incomplete combustion including
the burning of organic matter, like wood (e.g., wildfires, residential wood combustion, or
open burning), other combustion associated with industrial operations and electricity
generation, motor vehicle exhaust, and decaying organic matter. Much of the
combustion occurring in the industrial sector is associated with oil and gas extraction
and production including combustion engines used for drilling or compression activities
or flaring, as well as combustion to operate glycol dehydrators and regeneration units at
natural gas processing plants. Formaldehyde is also emitted from surface coating or



                                                                                         66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

solvent usage and during the production or of composite wood products. Secondary
formation is also a significant source of formaldehyde emissions, resulting from
atmospheric reaction between VOCs in the atmosphere. Chronic exposure to
formaldehyde may cause respiratory symptoms, sensitization leading to asthma and
contact dermatitis, neurological effects, and eye, nose, and throat irritation.
Occupational and animal studies have shown epithelial lesions from chronic inhalation
exposure. There is limited evidence that pulmonary functions may also be adversely
affected. EPA has classified formaldehyde as a probable human carcinogen.
Occupational studies have found limited evidence of associations between
formaldehyde exposure and increased incidence of lung and nasopharyngeal cancer.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) and Department of Health
and Human Services (DHHS) have classified formaldehyde as a human carcinogen.

Hydrogen Sulfide

Hydrogen Sulfide emissions had an estimated health risk from monitoring data that
exceeded a HQ of 1 for non-cancer health impacts. Estimated health risk from modeling
data, including only human-caused, non-mobile sources, met the screening criteria of a
HQ over 0.1. Hydrogen Sulfide is not a HAP under federal or state law, but it is a
“covered air toxic,” as defined at § 25-7-141(2)(b), C.R.S. Since Hydrogen Sulfide is not
a HAP, it is not reported to the EPA National Emission Inventory (NEI) or used in EPA
AirToxScreen modeling analysis. The scientific community technical working group
provided feedback to expand the data sources considered to include CDPHE modeling
studies to address this gap. Staff developed dispersion modeling conducted in a
selected 20-kilometer area near Commerce City North Denver to assess the health risk
from this pollutant. This area was selected for modeling because it has the highest
concentration of reported hydrogen sulfide emissions in the state. Additionally, 3 other
stationary monitors had monitoring data available for hydrogen sulfide that were above
the screening criteria of a HQ of 0.1.

Hydrogen sulfide is a colorless gas released from both natural sources, such as the
decay of organic matter, and human activities, including waste disposal (wastewater
treatment and landfilling), industrial processes like petroleum refining, natural gas
processing, wastewater treatment, roofing and asphalt material manufacturing, meat
processing, gas processing plants and compressions stations, renewable natural gas
processing from biogas and molybdenum mining. Chronic exposure to hydrogen sulfide
may cause low blood pressure, headache, nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, eye-
membrane inflammation, loss of muscle control, chronic cough, and psychological
disorders. Low concentrations can result in irritation of the eyes, nose, and throat, while
higher concentrations may lead to more severe respiratory issues, headaches,
dizziness, and chronic conditions.

As resources allow, the Commission encourages the Division to move forward with
identifying additional PTACs sooner than 2029. In addition to other toxins the Division
deems deserving of further study after consultation with scientific experts, stakeholders,
and the affected public, we would encourage the Division to also study polycyclic




                                                                                         67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

organic matter (including benzo(a)pyrene), ultrafine particles, and radionuclides for
potential identification as a PTAC.

The Commission recognizes both the importance and complexity of this statutorily-
directed rulemaking and notes that it will be followed by subsequent rulemakings to
adopt health-based standards and control measures, as well as the opportunity for
designating additional PTACs in the future. In selecting these five initial PTACs, the
Commission relied upon the information in the record, while being responsive to
community input about compounds of concern to their lived experience.

The Commission was statutorily constrained to a maximum of five toxic air
contaminants in designating the initial set of PTACs. The Commission believes that the
Division appropriately filtered its potential list of initial PTACs to focus first on those from
stationary sources. However, there is no numeric limit in the statutes on how many
TACs can be designated as PTACs throughout the life of this program. The
Commission encourages the Division to not limit its study and analysis just to TACs
associated with stationary sources but to also consider those associated with mobile
sources to the extent supported by data.

Additional Considerations

There are no direct federal requirements that correspond with the new rule. However, to
the extent the new rule could be construed to exceed or differ from any related
requirements of federal law, the Commission provides the following additional
statement, consistent with § 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S.:

(I)    Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
       on those requirements;

       There are no federal regulations applicable to Colorado’s identification of up to
       five priority toxic air contaminants as such identification is a state statutory
       requirement. However, EPA is required under the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §
       7412(b)(2), to periodically review and, where appropriate, revise the list of
       hazardous air pollutants established by Congress in § 7412(b)(1). EPA has, to
       date, identified 188 hazardous air pollutants. EPA is also required under 42
       U.S.C. § 7412 to promulgate regulations establishing emission standards for
       each category or subcategory of major sources and area sources of hazardous
       air pollutants listed for regulation. Four of the five identified priority toxic air
       contaminants are also listed by EPA as a hazardous air pollutant.

(II)   Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
       technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
       if not, why not;

       The federal requirement to list hazardous air pollutants is not performance-based
       or technology-based. EPA adds pollutants which present, or may present,
       through inhalation or other routes of exposure, a threat of adverse human health
       or environmental effects.



                                                                                             68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;

        The federal requirement to list hazardous air pollutants do not specifically
        address Colorado’s statutory directive to identify up to five priority toxic air
        contaminants.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;

        This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
        no timing issue exists.

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community and, therefore, does not
        impact future growth.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
       enacted;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;




                                                                                            69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements.

(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants does not directly establish
        additional requirements on the regulated community.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The identification of five priority toxic air contaminants achieves the statutorily
        mandated directive to identify such air contaminants. An alternative list of up to
        five priority toxic air contaminants could achieve that statutory directive, however,
        the five proposed were selected considering state and federal reported toxic air
        pollutants data; monitoring data; input from the scientific community; and a
        prioritization framework that considered, among other things, the potential for
        emissions reductions and exposures on vulnerable populations.

Findings of Fact

§ 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements do not apply to this rulemaking because the
adopted rule is not directly intended to reduce air pollution. To the extent § 25-7-110.8,
C.R.S. does apply to this rulemaking, after considering all the information in the record,
the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     The rule is based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
        scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information
        submitted by interested parties.

(II)    The rule is not intended, directly, to address a reduction in air pollution, or, in the
        alternative, is administrative in nature.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule provides benefits that
        justify the costs to government to implement the rule, and the rule does not result
        in any cost to the regulated community or public.

(IV)    The rule has no regulatory impact on any person, facility, or activity and,
        therefore, the analysis under § 25-7-110.5(4), C.R.S. is not required. Additionally,
        the rule is not intended, directly, to achieve a reduction in air pollution.



                                                                                             70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

(V)     The rule does not directly result in air quality benefits.

APPENDICES, BY PART

Part B:

Appendix A: Priority Toxic Air Contaminants

CAS Number               Toxic Air Contaminant                       Date Identified

71432                    Benzene                                     1/17/2025

18540299                 Chromium Compounds, Hexavalent              1/17/2025

75218                    Ethylene Oxide                              1/17/2025

50000                    Formaldehyde                                1/17/2025

7783064                  Hydrogen Sulfide                            1/17/2025

II.     Adopted: September 19, 2025

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complied with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S.,
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act sections 25-7-110, -110.5, and -
110.8 C.R.S. (the State Air Act), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. section 1001-1.

Basis

On June 2, 2022, House Bill (HB) 22-1244: Public Protections for Toxic Air
Contaminants was signed into law. The law, now primarily codified at section 25-7-
109.5, C.R.S., directed the Commission to propose health-based standards for each
identified Priority Toxic Air Contaminant (PTAC) by April 30, 2026, for General
Assembly approval. On January 17, 2025, the Commission adopted Regulation Number
30 (Regulation 30) and identified five initial PTACs. In this action, the Commission
adopted revisions to Regulation 30 to propose chronic health-protective benchmarks,
which meet the statutory definition of health-based standards, for each identified PTAC
for General Assembly approval. Further, the Commission adopted revisions to address
typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors found throughout the regulation.

The Commission did not define use-cases for the chronic health-protective benchmarks
at the time of rule adoption. Without limiting the Division’s existing authority under the
State Air Act or Commission regulations, the Commission acknowledges that before the
Division may use the chronic health-protective benchmarks as a level that could trigger
a regulatory or economic impact, or as the determining factor that could trigger a
regulatory or economic impact, the Commission must have promulgated an enabling
regulation.



                                                                                        71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in section 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-109.5(6)(a), C.R.S.
required the Commission to adopt rules that, no later than April 30, 2026, propose
health-based standards for each identified PTAC for approval by the General Assembly.

Section 25-7-109.5(1)(e), C.R.S. defines health-based standards as “the chronic
exposure limits for each priority toxic air contaminant required to protect the public from
adverse health effects of that priority toxic air contaminant, allowing for an ample margin
of safety, represented as benchmark numerical concentrations in the ambient air.”
“Adverse health effects” is defined at section 25-7-109.5(1)(a), C.R.S. as “the
detrimental health effects from exposure to emissions of a toxic air contaminant,
including the cumulative effects to health from exposure to the combined air emissions
of the toxic air contaminant from multiple sources, whether the emissions are emitted
routinely, intermittently, or accidentally.”

In determining the health-based standards, the statute required:

I.     Consideration of the best available peer-reviewed toxicity values regarding the
       levels of exposure to PTACs that may cause or contribute to adverse health
       effects;

II.    Consideration of standards adopted in other states to reduce or limit
       concentrations of toxic air contaminants (TACs) in the ambient air;

III.   Consideration of the effects of exposure to PTACs on vulnerable groups of the
       state, including disproportionately impacted communities, infants, children,
       fetuses, the elderly, and people with disabilities;

IV.    Consideration of both cancer-related health risks and non-cancer-related health
       risks and identification of the excess cancer and non-cancer risk levels used in
       determining the health-based standards;

V.     Provision of a sufficient margin of safety that accounts for the various effects that
       different populations may experience from exposure to PTACs; and

VI.    Consultation with the scientific community through holding at least one public
       hearing.

Purpose

Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks

In this Regulation Number 30, the Commission adopted proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks for each PTAC to satisfy the statutory directive in section 25-7-



                                                                                          72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

109.5(6)(b), C.R.S. to adopt proposed health-based standards, as informed by the
factors identified in section 25-7-109.5(6)(b), C.R.S. As levels below which there is a
high degree of scientific confidence that adverse health effects are unlikely to occur
from exposure to each PTAC on an individual basis, the chronic health-protective
benchmarks adopted by the Commission satisfy the statutory direction to adopt chronic
exposure limits for each PTAC, represented as benchmark numerical concentrations in
the ambient air, that protect the public from adverse health effects of that PTAC,
allowing for an ample margin of safety.

The Commission included the defined term “chronic health-protective benchmark” in
Regulation Number 30 for two reasons.

First, the term “chronic health-protective benchmarks” accurately describes the
proposed values the Commission adopted. As explained above, the adopted values are
set at levels the Commission determined to be health-protective for each individual
PTAC, with an ample margin of safety. As such, the adopted values meet the statutory
definition of health-based standards when that definition is read as a whole and together
with the considerations listed under section 25-7-109.5(6)(b), C.R.S. on an
individualized PTAC basis. Party comments during the rulemaking raised the potential
for confusion around parallels between the National Ambient Air Quality Standards
(NAAQS) and chronic health-protective benchmarks due to similar, though not identical,
language in the federal Clean Air Act and HB 22-1244. Based on Division research for
how ambient air concentrations for air toxics were developed for other state programs,
the Commission determined that the chronic health-protective benchmarks are not
intended to function as ambient air quality standards similar to the NAAQS. To avoid
future conflation of the chronic health-protective benchmarks and ambient air quality
standards, the Commission described the adopted values as chronic health-protective
benchmarks, clarifying that the values represent levels below which adverse health
effects are unlikely to occur, not levels that must be achieved to ensure public health is
protected.

Second, adopting a definition of chronic health-protective benchmarks will allow for
distinguishing the adopted values in this action from future iterations of health-based
standards. Section 25-7-109.5(6)(c), C.R.S. provides that the Commission must
consider in the future whether to include acute exposure limits for PTACs in the
definition of health-based standards. By identifying the proposed values adopted in this
action as chronic health-protective benchmarks, the Commission can easily distinguish
such values from any future acute values.

The Commission also adopted revisions at Part A, Section I.A. to establish definitions
essential to understanding how the chronic health-protective benchmarks were
calculated. In Part B, Section II.A. the Commission adopted proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks, as set out in Appendix B. Part B, Section II.A. and Appendix B
may be revised with future iterations of PTAC identification and health-based standard
adoption, as required under section 25-7-109.5(6)(d), C.R.S. They may also be revised
in the future to modify existing health-based standards, consistent with section 25-7-
109.5(6)(c), C.R.S.



                                                                                       73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

The chronic health-protective benchmark table in Part B, Appendix B, differentiates
between cancer risk and/or non-cancer health risk. The table also denotes where the
toxicology values were derived and the most recent year the values have been updated.

The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks were calculated using (1) pollutant-
specific toxicity values and (2) selected cancer and non-cancer health risk levels. These
two inputs are discussed below.

After considering all the information in the record, the Commission selected the risk
levels used in the chronic health-protective benchmarks as the appropriate levels for the
state of Colorado as a matter of policy. The selected levels were informed by the
statutory definitions of “health-based standards” and “adverse health effects,” and by
the considerations at section 25-7-109.5(6)(b). The Commission determined the toxicity
values used in the chronic health-protective benchmarks were the best available peer-
reviewed toxicity values, see section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(I), considering evidence in the
record and largely in accordance with longstanding CDPHE policy.

Toxicity Values

Toxicity values are numerical values that indicate the relative toxicity of individual
chemicals and their capacity to cause adverse health effects. Pollutants can have
toxicity values for either or both cancer and non-cancer health risk. Toxicity values for
carcinogenic pollutants are expressed as an inhalation unit risk (IUR), as defined in
Section I.A.3, while toxicity values for pollutants with non-cancer health impacts are
expressed as a reference concentration (RfC), as defined in Section I.A.5.

Consideration of the best available toxicity values (section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(I), C.R.S.)

The best available toxicity values used to determine the proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks were selected largely based on a Colorado Department of Public
Health & Environment (CDPHE) policy entitled On Use Of Human Health Toxicity
Values In Environmental Risk Assessment And Remediation Management, published in
2004. The policy establishes a hierarchy of federal and some state sources to consult
when deciding upon a toxicity value to use for various risk-management or policy-
related decision making. This policy aligns with EPA’s approach in other programs
including the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, AirToxScreen, and the Risk-
Screening Environmental Indicators Model.

The Commission recognizes the value in following a systematic approach to the
selection of toxicity values. For the non-cancer toxicity value for benzene, however, the
Commission determined to use the value from the California Office of Environmental
Health Hazard Assessment rather than the value from the EPA Integrated Risk
Information System (IRIS), as would have been dictated by existing CDPHE policy. The
Commission made this decision based on evidence presented by parties to the
rulemaking and the Commission’s informed judgment. The Commission may revisit
toxicity values, including the selection process, in future rulemakings to adopt new
chronic health-protective benchmarks or to revise existing chronic health-protective




                                                                                            74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

benchmarks, as appropriate. Consideration of margin of safety and vulnerable groups in
toxicity values (sections 25-7-109.5(1)(e) and 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(III), (V), C.R.S.)

The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks, by definition, had to allow for “an
ample margin of safety.” Further, in determining the chronic health-protective
benchmarks, the Commission had to consider the effects of exposure to PTACs on
vulnerable groups in the state and provide a sufficient margin of safety that accounts for
the various effects that different populations may experience from PTAC exposure. The
selected toxicity values satisfied these requirements because all of the sources of
toxicity values chosen to calculate the proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks
incorporate uncertainty factors to account for variations in susceptibility within the
human population. These uncertainty factors are used by different sources, like the EPA
Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS), when translating scientific studies, which
often only include a single group (for example a group of workers), into values that are
protective for the larger public. The application of these uncertainty factors means that
the toxicity values selected include considerations for differences in sensitivity between
humans that may arise from differences like age and health status. The toxicity values
used are all chronic toxicity values, which are developed to be protective for exposures
which may occur over a person’s lifetime.

Consultation with the scientific community on toxicity values (section 25-7-
109.5(6)(b)(VI), C.R.S.)

In meetings with a scientific community technical working group, staff presented options
for toxicity values for the identified PTACs. Several members of the working group were
supportive of using the CDPHE policy for toxicity values. Further, as required by section
25-7-109.5(6)(b)(VI), C.R.S., the Commission convened a public hearing on February
21, 2025, during which the Commission heard from the scientific community technical
working group and the Division regarding the proposed framework to calculate chronic
health-protective benchmarks. This briefing provided the Commission with an
opportunity to receive technical perspectives and better understand the context
surrounding the toxicity values being considered for the proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks. Working group members noted that the CDPHE policy was
consistent with other EPA policies on toxicity value hierarchies. Some members
expressed concern that newer values should be prioritized regardless of the tier of the
source in the CDPHE policy.

Consideration of toxicity values used in other states (section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(II),
C.R.S.)

CDPHE staff conducted research on numerous other state regulatory agency programs
for air toxics. This research included how ambient air concentrations were derived and
applied across the different programs. A majority of the programs used similar sources
of toxicity values as the CDPHE policy, with the most common source being EPA’s IRIS
(tier 1 in CDPHE’s policy). A few states derive their own toxicity values either informed
by existing sources or developed with help from scientific boards or committees. There
are several states that have opted to use occupational values from agencies such as



                                                                                       75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, The National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health, or American Conference of Governmental Industrial
Hygienists. Since these values are developed for healthy workers exposed for a typical
work-span, these states may make adjustments to these values when they are used for
a population level risk assessment or screening.

Risk levels

In addition to toxicity values, the other key input in determining the proposed chronic
health-protective benchmarks was risk level. The statute required consideration of both
cancer and non-cancer health impacts and associated risk levels when determining the
proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks. Cancer risk, for the purposes of risk
assessment, is often expressed as the excess cancer cases per 1 million people
exposed to a given pollutant. Non-cancer health impacts are expressed using a HQ,
which shows the ratio between potential exposure to a pollutant and the level at which
no adverse health effects are expected from a single pollutant.

By definition, the proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks are required to be set
at a level to protect the public from adverse health effects, allowing for an ample margin
of safety. Further, in adopting the proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks, the
Commission had to consider the effects of exposures on vulnerable groups of the state
(section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(III)) and provide a sufficient margin of safety that accounts for
the various effects that different populations may experience from PTAC exposures
(section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(V)). In alignment with these directives, the Commission used
a cancer risk level of 1 excess cancer case in 1 million exposed people and a non-
cancer HQ of 1.0 to calculate the proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks.

A cancer risk level of 1 in 1 million aligns with long-standing precedent in federal
environmental policy. In particular, EPA identifies 1 in 1 million as its target to protect
the greatest number of people in its residual risk program and uses it as a screening
threshold in programs like EPA Superfund when assessing risk from multiple pollutants.
The cancer risk level of 1 in 1 million provides an ample margin of safety when
considering vulnerable populations exposed to multiple TAC as it allows for the
summing of multiple cancer risks while staying below the 100 in 1 million level, which
EPA considers unacceptable.

An HQ of 1 represents the threshold level at which no adverse health effects are
expected from exposure to that level of a single pollutant. A level below an HQ of 1 is
common practice in federal and state risk assessments where multiple pollutants and
shared target organs are involved.

Consideration of adverse health effects, margin of safety, and vulnerable groups in risk
levels (sections 25-7-109.5(1)(a), 25-7-109.5(1)(e), 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(III), (V), C.R.S.)

The risk levels selected by the Commission to calculate the proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks considered that the standards must provide an ample margin of
safety and consider vulnerable groups. The Commission recognizes that Coloradans




                                                                                          76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

are not exposed to emissions from a single pollutant at a time, and that the additive
effects from multiple exposures may exacerbate risk. Because the toxicological data
that are the basis of the CHPB are typically collected for only a single pollutant at a
time, multi-pollutant impacts are not included in these CHPB values. This important
consideration will be addressed in future rulemakings on this topic.

Consultation with the scientific community on risk levels (section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(VI),
C.R.S.)

In meetings with the scientific community technical working group, staff presented
options for risk levels for the identified PTACs. The scientific community working group
did not provide a consensus recommendation on the cancer or non-cancer risk levels to
be used in the chronic health-protective benchmarks .Some conveyed interest in using
the most conservative values, considering that people do not breathe a single PTAC in
isolation, while others were concerned that they could not advise on the risk levels
without knowing how the resulting chronic health-protective benchmarks might be used.
This feedback was shared with the Commission during a public hearing on February 21,
2025, with the Commission.

Consideration of risk levels adopted in other states (section 25-7-109.5(6)(b)(II), C.R.S.)

Staff also considered risk levels used in other states. Based on CDPHE staff research,
the most commonly chosen cancer risk level in other state programs was 1 in 1 million
excess cancer cases. Maine, Minnesota, Texas, and Maryland were in the minority by
choosing 10 in 1 million excess cancer cases. Importantly, Minnesota uses the same
cancer risk level, of 10 in 1 million excess cancer cases, for an individual carcinogen
and for the sum of multiple carcinogens from a source.

For non-cancer risk levels, the majority of state programs calculate their benchmark
values using an HQ of 1. Massachusetts and Texas both use values that are lower than
an HQ of 1. The values that the Texas uses in their permitting program are set at a level
that is effectively an HQ of 0.3 in order to “account for exposure to chemicals from
multiple sources.” Massachusetts uses an HQ of 0.2.

Calculations for Proposed Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks

Considering the above factors, staff considered the best available peer-reviewed
information concerning PTAC toxicity values, collaborated internally across
departments, and sought input from a variety of stakeholders, including the scientific
community, to select the appropriate level of risk to calculate the proposed chronic
health-protective benchmarks. The risk levels adopted by the Commission reflect
statutory directives to propose chronic health-protective benchmarks that consider
adverse health effects and incorporate an ample margin of safety, including for
vulnerable groups.

To calculate the proposed cancer chronic health-protective benchmarks, which are
presented as a concentration in the ambient air, micrograms per meter (µg/m3),
standard methodologies were used to convert the toxicity values and risk levels into



                                                                                           77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                            5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

concentrations. The cancer risk level (0.000001, representing 1 excess cancer case per
1 million people) is divided by the IUR, for each PTAC. For non-cancer risk, the RfC is
multiplied by the risk level (HQ of 1.0) for each PTAC and then multiplied by 1,000 to
align the units of the RfC with the desired units of each proposed chronic health-
protective benchmark (µg/m3).

Scope of the Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks

Although the statute defines a health-based standard and sets forth statutory
requirements for the development of health-based standards, it does not prescribe
specific regulatory applications of the proposed health-based standards. In assessing
how the proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks could be applied in the future,
staff research concluded that most states use benchmark concentrations to compare to
modeled emissions estimates from potential or existing sources during the permitting
process in order to determine if additional information or regulatory action might be
required, or if the permit application might require refinements to reduce the risk of
exposure to one or more air toxic pollutants. Some states also use benchmark
concentrations to evaluate monitoring data to identify potential areas of health concern
for further study. There are also several examples where the benchmark concentrations
are used as a requirement that permitted facilities must meet, as measured at the
facilities’ fencelines.

While the Commission is not adopting use-cases for the proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks at this time, these benchmark numerical concentrations will
inform the recommended permitting framework that will be published in the permitting
needs assessment submitted to the General Assembly in December 2025. The
Commission also understands that staff will present the proposed chronic health-
protective benchmarks for approval at this SMART Act hearing in January 2026 in order
to maximize the time available during the 2026 session for the General Assembly to
take action on the proposed values and provide any direction for a potential future
permitting program.

The Commission recognizes that section 25-7-109.5(6)(c), C.R.S. allows for an iterative
review of the chronic health-protective benchmarks, including incorporation of updated
toxicity values and/or risk levels over time. As part of this iterative review, the
Commission may determine whether to include acute exposure limits for PTACs in this
Regulation Number 30.

Additional Considerations

There are no direct federal requirements that correspond with the new rule. However, to
the extent the new rule could be construed to exceed or differ from any related
requirements of federal law, the Commission provides the following additional
statement, consistent with section 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S.:

(I)   Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
      on those requirements;




                                                                                      78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

        There are no federal requirements applicable to Colorado’s proposal for chronic
        health-protective benchmarks for each identified PTAC, as such identification is a
        state statutory requirement. While the federal framework for the National
        Emissions Standards for HAPs (NESHAPs) include risk assessment for certain
        source categories, there is no direct analog to the proposed chronic health-
        protective benchmarks required under section 25-7-109.5(6)(a)(II), C.R.S.

(II)    Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
        technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and
        if not, why not;

        Most NESHAPs are technology-based. However, the promulgation of the
        proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks is separate from and unrelated
        to these federal standards.

(III)   Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
        are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would
        reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal
        process that established the federal requirements;

        Although the federal NESHAP framework includes residual health risk
        assessment for certain types of source categories, and health risk was also
        considered in proposing the chronic health-protective benchmarks, the NESHAP
        framework does not specifically address Colorado’s statutory directive to propose
        chronic health-protective benchmarks for the identified PTACs. The statutory
        directive to propose such chronic health-protective benchmarks is separate from
        and does not mirror the source category-based NESHAP framework.
        Additionally, NESHAPs only apply to federally-designated HAPs, whereas the list
        of PTACs–for which chronic health-protective benchmarks must be proposed–
        includes pollutants that are not federally-designated HAPs.

(IV)    Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
        community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or
        potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty,
        or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent
        requirements later;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks have no specified regulatory
        application and do not establish additional requirements on the regulated
        community.

(V)     Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
        implementation of federal requirements;

        This is a state-specific rule that is not implementing federal requirements. Thus,
        no timing issue exists.




                                                                                          79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

(VI)    Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
        reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks for the five PTACs do not
        establish additional requirements on the regulated community and, therefore, do
        not impact future growth.

(VII)   Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
        the requirements for various sources;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks do not establish additional
        requirements on the regulated community.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
       enacted;

        There are no federal requirements applicable to Colorado’s proposal for chronic
        health-protective benchmarks and the proposed chronic health-protective
        benchmarks have no specified regulation application. As a result, whether others
        would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted is not relevant
        to this rulemaking.

(IX)    Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
        requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so,
        why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or
        monitoring requirements;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks do not establish additional
        procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements.

(X)     Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
        requirement;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks do not establish additional
        requirements on the regulated community.

(XI)    Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
        address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental
        gain;

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks do not establish additional
        requirements on the regulated community.

(XII)   Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
        required standard.

        The proposed chronic health-protective benchmarks achieve the statutorily
        mandated directive to propose health-based standards. A no-action alternative



                                                                                         80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

        would not meet the statutory directive. Alternative levels for the chronic health-
        protective benchmarks might exist, but would have to meet the statutory
        requirements, including that they must be set at levels to protect the public from
        adverse health effects (defined as including cumulative effects from multiple
        sources), that they must allow an ample margin of safety, and that they are
        otherwise supported by the criteria set out in section 25-7-109.5(6)(b), C.R.S.
        The chronic health-protective benchmarks proposed were selected to meet these
        requirements and considering the best available peer-reviewed toxicity values;
        both cancer-related and non-cancer-related health risks; standards adopted in
        other states; the effects of exposure on vulnerable groups of the state; a
        sufficient margin of safety; and input from the scientific community.

Findings of Fact

Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements do not apply to this rulemaking because the
adopted rule is not directly intended to reduce air pollution. To the extent section 25-7-
110.8, C.R.S. does apply to this rulemaking, after considering all the information in the
record, the Commission hereby makes the determination that:

(I)     The rule is based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound
        scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information
        submitted by interested parties.

(II)    The rule is not intended, directly, to address a reduction in air pollution, or, in the
        alternative, is administrative in nature.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rule provides benefits that
        justify the costs to government to implement the rule, and the rule does not result
        in any cost to the regulated community or public.

(IV)    The rule has no regulatory impact on any person, facility, or activity and,
        therefore, the analysis under section 25-7-110.5(4), C.R.S. is not required.
        Additionally, the rule is not intended, directly, to achieve a reduction in air
        pollution.

(V)     The rule does not directly result in air quality benefits.




                                                                                             81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                          5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


Appendix B: Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks for Priority Toxic Air
Contaminants

Table Notes:

1.    Each chronic health-protective benchmark is in units of micrograms per cubic
      meter (μg/m³).

2.    The cancer chronic health-protective benchmark is based on a risk level of 1
      excess cancer cases per million people exposed. Selected toxicity value
      reference includes the age dependent adjustment factor-adjustment for
      compounds classified as mutagens (i.e., ethylene oxide, hexavalent chromium,
      formaldehyde).

3.    The non-cancer chronic health-protective benchmark is based on a risk of HQ
      equal to 1.0.




                                                                                     82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                   5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission




                          Proposed Chronic Health-Protective Benchmarks
                                 (μg/m³) as of September 19, 2025.


                            Chronic Cancer2            Chronic Non-Cancer3


                         Cancer       Toxicity       Non-        Toxicity
                         Chronic       Value         Cancer       Value
                         Health-     Reference       Chronic    Reference
                         Protective                  Health-
                         Benchmark                   Protective
CAS       Priority Toxic (μg/m³)    Source Year      Benchmark Source Year
          Air                                        (μg/m³)
Number    Contaminant


71432     Benzene             0.13 IRIS       2000           3 CalEPA 2014


18540299 Chromium        0.000056 IRIS        2024        0.03 IRIS     2024
         Compounds,
         Hexavalent


75218     Ethylene         0.0002 IRIS        2016          30 CalEPA 2000
          Oxide


50000     Formaldehyde      0.091 IRIS        2024           7 IRIS     2024


7783064   Hydrogen                                           2 IRIS     2003
          Sulfide




                                                                             83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


III.    Adopted: April 17, 2026

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complied with the
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S.,
the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act sections 25-7-110, -110.5, and -
110.8 C.R.S. (the State Air Act), and the Air Quality Control Commission’s
(Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. section 1001-1.

Basis

On June 2, 2022, House Bill (HB) 22-1244: Public Protections for Toxic Air
Contaminants was signed into law. The law, now primarily codified at Section 25-7-
109.5, C.R.S., directed the Commission to adopt emission control regulations for each
identified Priority Toxic Air Contaminant (PTAC) by April 30, 2026. On January 17,
2025, the Commission adopted Regulation Number 30 (Regulation 30) and identified
five initial PTACs. In this action, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation 30
and Regulation Number 24 to establish emission control regulations for certain
stationary sources that emit one or more PTACs. Additional requirements were adopted
for additional reporting of PTAC emissions and to require site-specific analyses from
certain sources not subject to the emission control regulations. The emission control
regulations will reduce PTAC emissions, focusing on specific source categories and the
locations of sources that are in proximity to certain locations including proximity to
receptors within PTAC cancer risk areas or proximity to occupied areas that are in or
near disproportionately impacted communities areas for this initial set of strategies.

Section 25-7-109.5(7)(d), C.R.S. requires the Commission to revisit existing PTAC
emission control regulations and adopt emission control regulations for any additional
pollutant identified as a PTAC at least every five years. Consistent with this direction,
the Commission may revise these initial regulations and relevant applicability criteria,
including by adopting additional strategies for the initial PTACs and future PTACs, in
subsequent rulemaking actions in order to continue to target further emissions
reductions.

Specific Statutory Authority

The State Air Act, specifically Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration
set forth in Section 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper
implementation and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S.
required the Commission to, no later than April 30, 2026, adopt emission control
regulations to reduce emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reduction in
disproportionately impacted communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs.

In determining the emission control regulations, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b), C.R.S.
requires that the Commission consider:




                                                                                            84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

I.     Any emission control regulations adopted for PTACs in other states or by the
       federal government;

II.    The emission levels of a PTAC from different industries and categories of
       sources, including sources required to have an operating permit pursuant to
       Section 25-7-114.3, synthetic minor sources, and minor sources;

III.   The degree of reduction of each PTAC that is achievable and technically and
       economically feasible, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic
       impacts and other costs pursuant to the requirements described in Section 25-7-
       110.8;

IV.    The ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate the emissions of
       a PTAC, including non-emitting alternative processes and control technologies;
       and

V.     The availability, suitability, and relative efficacy of a less hazardous substitute for
       a PTAC.

In addition, for new PTAC emission sources, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(c), C.R.S. directs
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations that are more stringent than
those adopted for existing sources. It also provides that the Commission may adopt an
emission threshold below which new sources are not required to comply with the more
stringent regulations.

“Emission control regulation” is broadly defined at Section 25-7-103(11), C.R.S.
Emission control regulations pertaining to PTACs “may include application of measures,
processes, methods, systems, or techniques, including, but not limited to, measures
that: (a) [r]educe the volume of, or eliminate emissions of, such pollutants through
process changes, emission limitations, control technologies, substitution of materials, or
other modifications; (b) [e]nclose systems or processes to eliminate emissions; (c)
[c]ollect, capture, or treat such pollutants when released from a process, stack, storage,
or fugitive emissions points; (d) [a]re design, equipment, or work practice standards
(including requirements for operator training or certification); or (e) [a]re a combination
of the provisions of paragraphs (a) to (d) . . . .”

In addition to Section 25-7-109.5, C.R.S., Section 25-7-109, C.R.S. provides the
Commission authority to adopt emission control regulations for PTACs and Section 25-
7-106(6), C.R.S. provides the Commission authority to require sources to establish and
maintain reports; install, use, and maintain monitoring equipment or methods; record,
monitor, and sample emissions; and provide such other information as the Commission
may require.

Purpose

The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting revisions to
Regulation Number 24 and Number 30. As directed in Section 25-7-109.5(7), C.R.S.,
the Commission adopted emission control regulations for each PTAC.



                                                                                            85
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

PTAC Emissions Control Regulations

The Commission adopted the emission control regulations for the five initial PTACs
based on research and stakeholder outreach conducted by Division staff. Staff
developed the emission control regulations following the direction at Section 25-7-
109.5(7)(b), C.R.S. Staff compiled and analyzed emissions data from stationary sources
and the processes that result in emissions. Staff researched emission control
regulations for the five PTAC as adopted in other states and by the federal government,
emission levels from different types of source categories, considered the degree of
PTAC emissions reductions achievable and technically and economically feasible,
considered the ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate PTAC
emissions, and considered the availability, suitability, and efficacy of less hazardous
substitutes. Staff also held informational meetings with the public and industry groups,
as well as source-specific stakeholder meetings throughout the rule development
process to ensure adopted provisions effectively reduce PTAC emissions in ways that
are technically and economically feasible.

Progress Updates and Reports to the Public

CRS 25-7-109.5(7) directs the Commission to "adopt emission control regulations to
reduce emissions of each priority toxic air contaminant and prioritize reductions in
disproportionately impacted communities with multiple sources of emissions of priority
toxic air contaminants.” Recognizing the communities' stake in this program, the
Commission encourages Division staff to report progress under the rule in a user-
friendly dashboard format, consistent with the current Division efforts that the
Commission understands are underway. In its annual reports to the public, the
Commission will include summary information on the progress of the PTAC program
including available monitoring data and emissions trends.

Applicability Criteria

The Commission adopted applicability criteria that vary for sources of formaldehyde and
hydrogen sulfide in order to allocate finite resources and prioritize the types of new,
modified, and existing sources that must comply with these initial formaldehyde and
hydrogen sulfide emission control regulations. Applicability criteria fall into two
categories: emission thresholds and location-based criteria.

       Emission Threshold

The primary applicability criteria for formaldehyde and hydrogen sulfide is a stationary
source-wide annual emission threshold. The categories of source types and equipment
and activities that emit these PTAC vary widely, and thresholds are one way to prioritize
the initial number of control regulations and associated emissions reductions. The
Commission did not adopt an emission threshold for ethylene oxide or hexavalent
chromium because the applicability for these two pollutants was focused on sources
with specific processes that were known to emit these PTAC in Colorado. While the
Division’s staff analysis documented which source categories emitted different amounts




                                                                                      86
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

of benzene, the Commission did not adopt an emission threshold for benzene emission
control regulations because it adopted a control requirement for one source category –
petroleum refineries. There is only a single source belonging to this category in the state
of Colorado at this time and, therefore, further prioritization was unnecessary.

The adopted emission thresholds were informed by long-standing thresholds used in
New Jersey, which were adopted in 1998 and derived from de minimis emission levels
proposed by EPA to determine case-by-case maximum achievable control technology
standards for federal HAP. The Commission established the formaldehyde PTAC
applicability emission threshold as 4,000 pounds per year (2 tons per year), which is
below the federal thresholds for determining a major source of hazardous air pollutants
(HAP) (10 tons per year or more of a single HAP or 25 tons per year or more of
combined HAP emissions). Establishing applicability thresholds below major source
HAP thresholds will advance the state of technically and economically feasible PTAC
control strategies by addressing sources of PTAC emissions in Colorado that are not
addressed under a corresponding federal program. For hydrogen sulfide, the only PTAC
that is not a federal HAP, the Commission adopted a threshold of 5 tons per year, which
is consistent with the threshold rate for any toxic substance in New Jersey that is not
classified as a HAP. Similar to Colorado, New Jersey recently added hydrogen sulfide
as a state-only HAP. The Commission recommends the Division review whether
alternative emission thresholds are appropriate during development of the next iteration
of PTAC emission control regulations, considering available resources, in order to refine
the types of control strategies available and appropriate for Colorado.

To determine which existing sources have emissions above the thresholds for
formaldehyde and hydrogen sulfide, the Division reviewed all available data across
several datasets. These included the first two years of annual TAC reports required
under Section 25-7-109.5(4)(a), C.R.S., and EPA’s National Emission Inventory (NEI)
data from 2020. This data was further supplemented with the 2025 APEN inventory data
to fill in data gaps. For hydrogen sulfide, the Division also reviewed the most recently
reported EPA Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) from 2024, along with 2025 APEN data
and two years of annual TAC reports. These data sources helped the Commission
identify a priority set of emission control regulations focused on the key emitting
equipment and activities at sources above the emission threshold.

For the purposes of determining emissions to assess applicability, the Commission
clarified that activities, emissions or equipment that are not required to be reported on
annual TAC reports in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX., or on ONGAEIR forms
in Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. do not need to be considered when in
stationary source-wide emission estimates for formaldehyde or hydrogen sulfide.
Following existing exemptions in these programs streamlines requirements and creates
consistency for both stationary sources subject to the rule and Division staff reviewing
applicability.

Existing stationary sources (determining applicability with Sections III.D.1.a. for
formaldehyde or III.E.1.a. for hydrogen sulfide)




                                                                                        87
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

Stationary source emissions-based applicability will be determined based on the highest
reported emissions across the three years of TAC reports (calendar years 2023, 2024,
or 2025), if available, or data reported to the Division on APENs. The Commission
acknowledges that some stationary sources with wide variations in operating loads may
opt to base their applicability on a 3-year average for calendar year 2023, 2024, and
2025 TAC reports. Since these reports involve historical reported data, the Commission
also adopted an option for stationary sources to provide a one-time emission update
report for their annual emissions of the relevant PTAC by January 1, 2027, based on
their 2025 calendar year emissions (or the updated 3-year average if a stationary
source chooses). This update can explain any alignments with the equipment and
activity exemptions and the reporting thresholds for formaldehyde and hydrogen sulfide
established in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7,
Part B, Section V. (for ONGAEIR sources) or any other explanation for the updates. For
stationary sources who are not above the emission threshold, the Commission adopted
a requirement that the stationary source maintain records of their emissions, including
whether they based their emissions on the single highest year, a 3-year average, or an
emission update report, and make the report available to the Division upon request.

The Commission based the thresholds for existing stationary sources on actual
emissions because this was the basis of the data analysis used to identify the initial set
of control strategy requirements and the potential universe of facilities that may require
a non-categorical analysis. Because existing stationary sources are already built,
prioritizing the control strategies at facilities that are actually emitting PTAC above a
threshold will allow for the control strategies to be prioritized in order to align with
legislative declarations aimed at meaningfully reducing exposures from PTAC from
actual, not theoretical potential emissions. The Commission did not adopt on-ramp
provisions for existing stationary sources who do not modify. Should a stationary
source’s emissions increase above the thresholds in a future year, such sources could
become subject to PTAC emission control regulations at a future date, for example, at
the next scheduled Commission review of the standards pursuant to Section 25-7-
109.5(7)(d). This approach will allow time for the Division to assess what gaps may
emerge based on yet-to-be-reported annual TAC emission reports, as well as other
Division resource considerations. The Commission requests that the Division consider
whether on-ramp provisions for existing stationary sources at the next review of the
emission control regulations would be feasible or necessary.

New and modified stationary sources (determining applicability with Sections III.D.1.b.
or III.D.1.c. for formaldehyde or III.E.1.b. or III.E.1.c. for hydrogen sulfide)

For new and modified stationary sources, the Commission based the thresholds on
forecasted actual PTAC emissions. The Commission required a forecast period of five
years, as this period aligns with the long-term review cycles of the emission control
regulations and also the five-year renewal period for the Division’s APEN program. The
forecasted emission rates can take into account planned control device equipment or
other operations reflecting projected business growth. While the Commission
recognizes that some stationary sources may forecast emissions at or near full capacity,
other stationary sources anticipated to be covered by the formaldehyde requirements,



                                                                                        88
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

particularly in the power generation sector, may have variable emissions in response to
power demand loads or other predictable factors. Using forecasted actual PTAC
emissions to assess applicability, similar to actual annual PTAC emissions, ensures
strategic use of finite Division resources to implement the rule requirements while
furthering legislative declarations aimed at meaningfully reducing exposures from PTAC
emissions. A stationary source’s potential to emit may be represented as its forecasted
actual emissions. To reduce administrative burden, the Division will consider
opportunities to utilize or integrate existing Division-approved processes to meet the
requirement to submit forecasted actual emissions.

To address concerns with transparency and enforceability of these forecasted actual
PTAC emissions, the Commission required forecasted emissions to be included at the
time of permit application for the new or modified stationary source. If no permit
application is required, the stationary source must report its forecasted emissions before
the stationary source commences construction or reconstruction on any spark ignition
stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine or stationary combustion turbine.
Additionally, if a stationary source’s forecasted actual emissions are below the
threshold, the stationary source must track its post-operation actual annual emissions to
ensure such emissions do not exceed the threshold for five years after commencing
operation and maintain records. If actual emissions exceed the threshold, the stationary
source must notify the Division and must comply with the rule, as applicable and by the
prescribed deadline. If a stationary source anticipates operating its emitting equipment
year-round, it would not be precluded from listing its full-capacity value as their
forecasted actual PTAC emissions.

       Location-based criteria

A secondary applicability criteria for existing and modified stationary sources of
formaldehyde was added to further refine applicability by considering the location of the
stationary source relative to locations with modeled cancer risks above a certain level
and occupied areas that are in disproportionately impacted communities. The adopted
emission control regulations do not include this additional location-based applicability
criteria for the other PTACs because benzene, hexavalent chromium, and ethylene
oxide do not have emissions thresholds and hydrogen sulfide does not have modeled
cancer risk. Additionally, the Commission did not apply the secondary applicability
criteria for new sources so as to provide an additional level of stringency in
requirements applicable to new sources.

Due to the large number of formaldehyde-emitting sources, sources of formaldehyde
are subject to the emission control strategies if they (1) actually emit (or are forecasted
to emit) 4,000 pounds per year of formaldehyde, and are either (2) located within 1-mile
of an occupied area that is within a disproportionately impacted community or (3)
located within 1-mile from a census block that had a combined modeled cancer risk
from carcinogenic PTAC of at least 20 excess cancer cases per one million people,
based on modeled data in EPA’s AirToxScreen 2020 with certain adjustments. The
adjustments to AirToxScreen 2020 included the addition of toxicity factors used for each
PTAC as promulgated by the Commission in Appendix B of Section II. of this Regulation



                                                                                        89
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

30, data adjustments established by the EPA in 2020 AirToxScreen Emissions Update
Document to account for changes to modeling assumptions for the non-point oil and gas
sector for the 2020 modeling year, and exclusion of any biogenic estimates for
formaldehyde. The 2020 PTAC Cancer Risk Screening Area should not be interpreted
as current modeled risk in any given area. The 2020 AirToxScreen provides a snapshot
in time using emissions from calendar year 2020. Since 2020, emissions of PTAC could
have changed, but this screening level tool reflects that latest version of modeled PTAC
risk available for Colorado census blocks at the time of rule adoption.

The criteria of modeled cancer risk of at least 20 excess cancer cases was selected to
prioritize which existing or modified stationary sources would be subject to these control
regulations. This cancer risk level reflects the additive risk from four carcinogenic PTAC.
The Division’s staff research identified two other state programs where risk reduction
action was required based on additive facility-wide cancer risk thresholds. Specifically,
the Clean Air Oregon program has risk action levels of 25 in one million (voluntary risk
reduction) and 50 in one million (toxics best available control technology) for existing
sources, and the South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1402 has an action
risk level of 25 in one million for control of toxic air contaminants from existing sources.
The Commission recognizes that these other state programs have additive risk
thresholds that are compared to the risk from a much larger list of carcinogenic
pollutants, while the modeled risk adopted was limited to the four carcinogenic PTAC
used in this analysis.

The PTAC cancer risk criterion identifies areas of the state with the highest modeled
risk based on exposures. The Commission recognizes that modeled risk may change
over time as EPA periodically releases new versions of AirToxScreen, which could
change the areas that fall above the cancer risk threshold. The Division staff provided a
guidance document that listed the census blocks that are above the cancer risk
threshold as of the date of rule adoption and the Commission incorporated that
guidance document into the rule. The incorporated census block list determined
applicability of the cancer risk-based location criterion for this initial set of PTAC
emission control regulations. As of adoption of the rule, Division staff published that list
of census blocks and a geospatial information system shapefile on its website for
sources to determine whether they are located within a 1-mile of these areas. The
Commission also recommends that the Division revisit the list of census blocks at the
next scheduled Commission hearing to review the PTAC emission control regulations
and recommends that the Division create a mapping tool by July 31, 2026, to facilitate
the identification of locations that meet this criterion.

The disproportionately impacted community criterion specifically addresses the statutory
directive to prioritize reductions impacting disproportionately impacted communities in
recognition that these areas may experience higher environmental and health burdens
than other areas of the state. Combining proximity to disproportionately impacted
communities, including mobile home parks, or larger areas defined at the census block
group level with an option for sources to evaluate whether they are emitting PTAC near
an occupied area, prioritizes reductions from sources that may expose human receptors
to those PTAC emissions.



                                                                                          90
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

The Commission adopted a 1-mile buffer distance to be applied relative to the location
of potentially applicable stationary sources emitting formaldehyde. If the facility is
located in or within a 1-mile buffer area, or the source itself intersects with a 2020 PTAC
Cancer Risk Area or an occupied disproportionately impacted community, the stationary
source meets the relevant location-based applicability criterion. The buffer distance of 1-
mile was adopted for both criteria for consistency and ease of review for both owner or
operators of affected sources and Division staff assessing applicability. A 1-mile buffer
distance is also used in Commission Regulation No. 3, Part B, Section III.B.5.d. and
Regulation No. 27, Part B, Section II.A.6.

The Commission understands the Division will review ambient air toxics monitoring data
when the Division reviews the identification of disproportionately impacted communities
following the publication of updates to the Disproportionately Impacted Community
Mapping tool, to evaluate whether additional communities need to be prioritized in the
applicability location-criteria.

Emission Control Regulations by PTAC and Category

       Benzene

Applicability: The Commission adopted a control requirement for existing and new
petroleum refineries.

Exemptions: There are no exemptions from the benzene control requirement.

Rule Requirement: The Commission adopted more stringent leak detection and repair
(LDAR) standards for components at petroleum refineries in Regulation Number 24.

Other Facilities with Benzene Emissions: As noted below, the Division’s analysis
identified additional facilities with emissions above a 4,000 lb/yr benzene emissions
threshold that were not petroleum refineries and therefore not subject to the categorical
LDAR requirement. During the rulemaking process, however, those sources provided
additional information to Division staff demonstrating that they were either below the
threshold, or that they had already completed a substantive analysis of feasible control
strategies. The Commission, therefore, did not adopt requirements for these sources to
complete a non-categorical analysis report.

The Commission did not adopt control requirements or non-categorical benzene
analysis requirements for the upstream and midstream oil and gas segments as part of
this rulemaking, due to anticipated co-benefit reductions from other regulations
applicable to these segments and because improved TAC emissions information for
these segments is expected to come from the revised annual reporting requirements in
Regulation Numbers 3 and 7. The Commission asked the Division to provide updated
information on benzene emissions and ambient air quality trends and report to the
Commission on the possible need for PTAC emission control regulations, including from
upstream and midstream oil and gas segments, no later than August 2028.




                                                                                        91
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

This is the first emission control regulation for PTACs completed by the Commission
under HB22-1244. The Commission intends that the calculated cost figures for benzene
in this rulemaking, while appropriate for this action, are not intended to be precedent
setting for future rulemakings.

      Chromium Compounds, Hexavalent (Hexavalent Chromium)

Applicability: The Commission did not adopt a de minimis emissions threshold for
sources that have chromium electroplating or anodizing processes. The adopted
requirements are based on the federal NESHAP for Hard and Decorative Chromium
Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks (40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart N) and
California Air Resources Board (CARB)'s Airborne Toxic Control Measure (ATCM) for
Chromium Electroplating and Chromic Acid Anodizing Operations (division 3, chapter 1,
subchapter 7.5, Section 93102 of Title 17 of the California Code of Regulations) rule.
Neither of these rules have established minimum emission thresholds from chromium
electroplating and anodizing tanks and fugitive emission sources that need to comply
with their respective requirements.

Emission Limitations and Work Practices: While the federal NESHAP Subpart N
requires control of emissions from decorative and functional plating and anodizing
tanks, the Commission adopted additional requirements to reduce fugitive emissions
and further refine the control requirements from these tanks. These electrolytic
processes cause mists containing hexavalent chromium to be ejected from the plating
tanks, which can eventually be emitted into outdoor air through building openings and
vents. Other examples of fugitive emissions include dust containing hexavalent
chromium emitted from compressed air operations, buffing and grinding operations, and
cleaning. These and other types of fugitive emissions can contribute to ambient
concentrations of hexavalent chromium near the source. Since many of the facilities are
located in disproportionately impacted communities or are in close proximity to sensitive
receptors, the Commission determined the additional requirements are necessary to
reduce emissions of and exposure to this hazardous chemical in order to protect the
health of Coloradans.

The Commission adopted an approved fume suppressant list, and their associated
surface tension values and approved uses, that align with those that CARB adopted in
2023, and language that will allow the use of any other suppressant that has since been
approved by CARB under their alternative fume suppressant procedures (division 3,
chapter 1, subchapter 7.5, Section 93102.8 of Title 17 of the California Code of
Regulations). The Commission finds that the list of approved suppressants ensures
effective fume suppressants are used for the appropriate type of plating or anodizing
operation and that lower, surface tension values are adhered to which are more
stringent than the surface tension values in the federal NESHAP, to further reduce
emissions.

The Commission adopted a requirement for the installation of building enclosures at
sources of functional and decorative plating operations, and buffing, grinding, and
polishing operations at such sources that use hexavalent chromium. The inclusion of



                                                                                      92
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                  5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

specific requirements for enclosure openings, such as those on opposite ends of the
building or in proximity to sensitive receptors, which the Commission finds are
necessary to protect public health from the emissions of hexavalent chromium. The
Commission is allowing a two-year lead time for facilities to install these enclosures,
which is consistent with the compliance schedule set by CARB in the ATCM.

The Commission is adopting a prohibition, effective after June 14, 2026, on the
installation of new equipment, or modified equipment that involves the use or increase
in use of hexavalent chromium for decorative applications. This action is based on the
finding that safer, less toxic, and economically feasible alternatives are available, thus
halting the creation of new sources of hexavalent chromium from this source type.

Performance Testing: The Commission adopted a requirement for all sources that
continue to use hexavalent chromium in plating and anodizing operations to submit a
performance test by April 15, 2027, according to procedures outlined in in the federal
NESHAP (40 CFR 63.347). The testing deadline allows for four months after the
required deadline for sources to begin using an approved fume suppressant. The
Commission finds that because the federal NESHAP Subpart N only required initial
testing, the tests are outdated and often do not reflect current source operations, nor do
they reflect change to the resulting emissions that may occur as a result of these more
stringent surface tension requirements and approved suppressants.

Reporting and Recordkeeping: The Commission adopted a requirement for all sources
affected by this regulation to submit an annual compliance report for any facility
operating in the prior calendar year and to be due June 30, 2028, and annually
thereafter. An annual compliance report is necessary to improve Division oversight,
especially since many sources are not required to obtain a permit, and the federal
NESHAP Subpart N does not require reporting for smaller sources. The Commission
finds that the requirements and certifications will meet the goal of improving oversight
from these source types.

       Ethylene Oxide

Applicability: The Commission has adopted control regulations for sterilization facilities
and finds that all three sterilizer facilities in Colorado will reduce emissions as a result of
these emission control regulations. Further, any new sterilization facilities constructed in
the state would also be subject to these controls, including the more stringent emission
control requirements for new sources under 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart O (April 4, 2024).
The emission control regulation does not cover sterilization facilities used for research
and development or in hospitals, dentist offices, or veterinary clinics. While the
Commission is not aware of any other types of sterilization facilities in Colorado that use
ethylene oxide, the Commission understands that expanded reporting requirements for
ethylene oxide will begin with reports due between June 2027 and June 2028 and it will
evaluate whether additional types of sterilization facilities or other sources of ethylene
oxide may present an opportunity for control strategies at its next review of the
standards.




                                                                                            93
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

Emission Limitations: The Commission finds that the requirements in the federal
NESHAP for sterilization facilities (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart O (April 4, 2024)) are well
researched, health-protective, and generally effective at reducing ethylene oxide
emissions in Colorado while accommodating a phased compliance schedule that
recognizes sensitivities in the medical supply chain. To minimize potential conflicts with
federal requirements, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation 30 to include
emission control regulations that largely incorporate by reference the federal standard
that was finalized in April 2024. This incorporation ensures continuity even as the EPA
undertakes a reconsideration of the federal rule, providing regulatory stability ahead of
the State’s April 2026 deadline for adopting PTAC emission control regulations. The
Commission also made two revisions to the federal regulation to address Colorado-
specific needs.

First, the Commission adopted technically feasible emission control requirements for
one source, LivaNova (AIRS ID 059-1258), that was granted a presidential exemption
under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7412(i)(4) and 40 C.F.R. Part 63,
Subpart A at § 63(j). The presidential exemption extends deadlines for compliance with
the 2024 NESHAP Subpart O by two years. The Division understands that LivaNova is
the only source that has been granted a presidential exemption at the time of this
rulemaking. The Commission adopted standards for this source, beginning April 6,
2028, to require the facility to utilize a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS)
to demonstrate that the catalytic oxidizer controlling emissions from the sterilization
chamber vents (SCV), aeration room vents (ARV), and chamber exhaust vents (CEV)
complies with the applicable standards under 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart O (April 5,
2024) § 63.362(b), (c), (d), (e), or § 63.362(i), with periodic reports to verify compliance.
As an alternative to emission limitations adopted for sterilizers more generally, the
Commission has adopted an operational standard to allow the source an option to limit
annual ethylene oxide usage to 12 tons per year until the source can fully comply with
40 CFR Part 63, Subpart O (April 4, 2024), as incorporated into Regulation 30.

While the Commission accommodated LivaNova’s request for additional time to comply
with the CEMS requirements in Regulation 30, these accommodations were based only
on the Commission’s finding that meeting the requirements earlier than April 8, 2028,
would be technically infeasible based on information LivaNova submitted. The
Commission does not concede that the presidential exemptions preempt State authority
under Section 112(d)(7) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7412(d)(7) to adopt more
stringent emission control measures than the federal government requires. The
Commission has clear and explicit authority under State law to adopt emission control
regulations for PTAC, and nothing in CAA Section 112, including the presidential
exemption authority, diminishes that authority. Additional extensions to the presidential
exemption, if granted, will have no effect on compliance dates under the rule.
Additionally, the Commission clarifies that April 8, 2028, is the date for demonstration of
compliance for the CEMS at the LivaNova facility. This is the date by which full
compliance with emissions standards must be demonstrated.

Exemptions: For small sterilizers that use less than 400 lbs annually (in any given 12
month period) of ethylene oxide, the Commission exempted these sources from the



                                                                                           94
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

State PTAC emission control regulation. This exemption is anticipated to streamline
compliance demonstration provisions for these small sources.

       Formaldehyde

The Commission adopted revisions in Regulation 30 to establish emission control
strategies for new and existing stationary sources that emit formaldehyde. Regulation
30 revisions also include the non-categorical requirements for site-specific analysis for
applicable formaldehyde sources.

Applicability: The Commission adopted applicability criteria for existing stationary
sources (those that commenced construction before September 1, 2026) that have
actual emissions of formaldehyde at or above 4,000 pounds per year and meet the
location-based criteria described above. For modified sources (those that modify after
September 1, 2026), the applicability criteria is forecasted actual formaldehyde
emissions and location-based criteria. For new sources, (those that commenced
construction on or after September 1, 2026), the applicability criteria is forecasted actual
formaldehyde emissions at or above 4,000 pounds of formaldehyde per year.

The Commission adopted the Division's proposed compliance timelines for sources that
had not yet commenced construction as of September 1, 2026, and for sources that had
commenced construction but not operation as of September 1, 2026. However, the
Commission wanted to give more time for compliance to sources that had commenced
construction and operation as of September 1, 2026. For this latter group, the
compliance deadline was extended from September 1, 2026, to January 1, 2027.

Exemptions: The Commission exempted from the applicability determination equipment
or activities that are not required to be reported on TAC reports under Regulation
Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.

Emission Limitations: The Commission adopted emission control requirements for
stationary source engines and turbines in Regulation Number 30.

              Engines

The Commission recognizes that several regulations adopted in recent years address
emissions from existing spark ignition gas-fired engines in the upstream and midstream
oil and gas segments. The nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions limitations for engines
adopted in Regulation Number 26 in 2020 and 2023 as well as the NOx intensity and
use practices adopted revised in Regulation Number 7 in 2023 and further expanded in
2025 achieve formaldehyde emissions as a co-benefit to reducing NOx emissions from
various combustion equipment in oil and gas operations. Additionally, revisions to
Regulation Number 7 adopted in 2021 and 2024 that reduce greenhouse gas emissions
from fuel combustion equipment in the midstream segment are also expected to
achieve reductions in formaldehyde. The recent adoption of these NOx and greenhouse
gas reduction measures informed the Commission’s decision to not adopt extensive,
additional categorical requirements for existing engines and turbines located at sources




                                                                                         95
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

that met the applicability criteria for formaldehyde emissions in the upstream and
midstream oil and gas segments.

However, to ensure formaldehyde emission reductions and to complement the federal
NESHAP, Subpart ZZZZ (August 30, 2024), including where it defers to the federal
NSPS, Subpart JJJJ (August 30, 2024), the Commission adopted Subpart ZZZZ
requires for existing spark ignition (SI) reciprocating internal combustion engines (RICE)
(constructed or reconstructed before September 1, 2026) and additional emission
limitations for new SI RICE (constructed or reconstructed on or after September 1,
2026) at new and existing applicable sources.

For new or reconstructed non-emergency SI RICE rated at or above one hundred (100)
horsepower (hp), the Commission adopted a requirement for the engines to comply with
the carbon monoxide (CO) emissions limit of 0.40 g/hp-hr, unless otherwise specified in
Table 1 at Section III.D.2. In many cases, this CO limit is more stringent than Subpart
ZZZZ requirements and was identified to be a state-of-the-art, technically feasible level
of control in 2023 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. The
Commission understands that CO is commonly used as a surrogate emission limit and
pollutant to demonstrate formaldehyde emission reductions. However, rich burn engines
above 500 horsepower at major sources of HAP will be subject to formaldehyde specific
requirements under Subpart ZZZZ and, therefore, the Commission exempts these
engines from the CO limits in Table 1. This exemption will also avoid a conflict with the
Subpart ZZZZ requirements. The Commission also adopted alternative compliance
options, based on percent reductions of CO, that align with New Jersey state-of-the-art
program for two-stroke lean burn (LB), four-stroke LB, and rich burn (RB) SI RICE. The
adopted emission limitations do not apply during periods of startup or shutdown but
owners or operators must maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with
good air pollution control practices to minimize emissions during these periods.

The Commission also adopted annual inspection and adjustment (i.e., tuning)
requirements for engines. Owners or operators must maintain records of compliance
with the state-only annual tuning requirements or federal tune-up or adjustment
requirements, if applicable. Owners or operators must also conduct applicable
performance tests and keep records and submit reports in alignment with federal
NESHAP or NSPS provisions, with the expectation that the testing and associated
records will demonstrate compliance with the more stringent CO emission limitations.

The Commission adopted several exemptions from the engines emissions control
strategies. Specifically, the Commission exempted non-road engines, emergency power
generators, and engines being removed or electrified to meet requirements of the
midstream greenhouse gas reduction program. These exemptions are similar to
exemptions the Commission has previously adopted in its engine rules. The
Commission also adopted an exemption for equipment and activities also exempt from
the annual emissions reporting requirements in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section
IX. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.

             Turbines



                                                                                       96
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

To ensure formaldehyde emission reductions and to complement the federal NESHAP,
Subpart YYYY (March 9, 2022), the Commission adopted tuning requirements for
existing stationary combustion turbines (constructed or reconstructed before September
1, 2026) and additional emissions limitations for new stationary combustion turbines
(constructed or reconstructed on or after September 1, 2026) at new and existing
applicable sources.

For new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbines, the Commission adopted a
requirement for the turbine to comply with the CO emissions limits in Table 2 in Section
III.D.3., unless a turbine is subject to Subpart YYYY (i.e., constructed or reconstructed
on or after January 14, 2003, and located at a major HAP source). The Commission
also adopted an option to optionally comply with the Subpart YYYY formaldehyde
emissions limitations instead of the CO emissions limits. Similarly to the engine
requirements described above, the Commission adopted these CO emissions limits as
a surrogate to demonstrate formaldehyde emissions reductions. Turbines subject to
Subpart YYYY must already comply with the formaldehyde requirements in that subpart.
However, the CO limits, or Subpart YYYY compliance option, adopted by the
Commission apply more broadly than Subpart YYYY in that they apply to new turbines
at area HAP sources. These CO limits were also identified to be a state-of-the-art,
technically feasible level of control by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection. In addition, all turbines must be operated and maintained based on
manufacturing specifications or equivalent to the extent practicable, and consistent with
technological limitations and good engineering and maintenance practices.

For a turbine optionally complying with the Subpart YYYY, a turbine may comply with
the formaldehyde emission limitation with or without an oxidation catalyst. If complying
without an oxidation catalyst, the owner or operator must develop and comply with an
operating parameter monitoring plan that ensures the unit demonstrates compliance
with the applicable emissions limitation. The turbine owner or operator will determine
the appropriate parameters and the operating ranges for its plan, and may utilize
information in performance tests or in manufacturer recommendations, as applicable.
The Division has authority to review and revise plans upon request. This approach is
similar to the federal Subpart YYYY framework and ensures that stationary combustion
turbines have flexibility to determine how to ensure continuous compliance with the
formaldehyde emission limits under Division oversight.

The Commission also adopted annual inspection and adjustment (i.e., tuning)
requirements for turbines. Owners or operators must maintain records of compliance
with the tuning requirements. Owners or operators must also conduct monitoring,
performance tests, and keep records and submit reports in alignment with federal
NESHAP provisions, with the expectation that the testing and associated records will
demonstrate compliance with the more stringent CO emission limitations.

Similar to the adopted engine requirements, the Commission adopted an exemption for
equipment and activities also exempt from the annual emissions reporting requirements
in Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section IX. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V.




                                                                                       97
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

              Other Facilities with Formaldehyde Emissions

As noted below, the Division’s analysis identified additional facilities with emissions
above the 4,000 lb/yr formaldehyde threshold that were not subject to a formaldehyde
categorical requirement. During the rulemaking process, several of these sources
provided additional information to Division staff demonstrating their facility’s emissions
were either below the threshold, or the facility had already completed substantive
analysis of feasible control strategies. The Commission, therefore, removed these
sources from the requirement to complete a non-categorical analysis report. The
remaining sources, named in Section III.F., will either follow the non-categorical
requirements to inform potential future control strategies, or will submit to staff an
approved form and testing method to correct formaldehyde emissions, as applicable.

       Hydrogen Sulfide

Applicability: The Commission adopted emission control regulations for two categories
of stationary sources that Division staff research determined were above the emission
threshold of 10,000 pounds per year. The two categorical emission control strategies
impact asphalt and roofing manufacturing operations and manure digesters and will
impact three sources in the state. The Commission adopted applicability criteria for
existing stationary sources (those that commenced construction before June 14, 2026)
that have actual emissions of hydrogen sulfide at or above 10,000 pounds per year. The
emission control strategies will also apply to any new or modified facilities with these
types of operations above the emission threshold. For modified sources (those that
commenced construction before June 14, 2026, and modify after June 14, 2026), the
applicability criteria is forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions. For new sources
(those that commenced construction on or after June 14, 2026), the applicability criteria
is forecasted actual hydrogen sulfide emissions at or above 10,000 pounds of hydrogen
sulfide per year.

Emission Limitations:

The Commission adopted emission control requirements for two different categories of
emissions that were above the applicability threshold.

Asphalt and Roofing Manufacturing:

The Commission adopted emission control regulations for equipment and activities with
hydrogen sulfide emissions at all new, modified, or existing asphalt or roofing
manufacturing operations to install technically feasible control technology abatement
devices such as regenerative thermal oxidizers (RTOs). These sources must also
demonstrate a measurable reduction in hydrogen sulfide and benzene emissions with
an applicable destruction efficiency such that emissions from asphalt storage, surge,
and mixing tanks; sealant kettles; coating and applicator equipment; and loadout racks
are controlled. The sources must perform periodic performance testing for VOC or H2S,
demonstrating an appropriate destruction efficiency from the abatement devices.
Sources must also conduct manufacture-specified inspection and maintenance of




                                                                                         98
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

abatement devices; perform weekly visual inspections and maintenance of asphalt
processing or roofing manufacturing equipment, as applicable; maintain regular
inspection records, maintenance records, and cleaning records of asphalt storage and
surge tanks; and replace filters to minimize fugitive emissions from asphalt
manufacturing processes. Many of these requirements are aligned with the latest
Division-approved operations and maintenance plan to preserve site-specific flexibility,
when warranted.

Exemptions: The Commission exempted from the applicability determination equipment
or activities that are not required to be reported on TAC reports under Regulation
Number 3, Part A, Section IX.A.2. or Regulation Number 7, Part B, Section V. The
Commission adopted a conditional exemption for asphalt processing and roofing plants
that are actively seeking to limit their H2S emissions through a permit modification. At
the time of rule adoption, there were two sources with pending administratively
complete permit applications for permits that will allow for control equipment to be
installed to reduce H2S emissions below the emission threshold. This exemption is
conditioned on cooperation with the Division to obtain the permit, timely construction
occurring after the permit is issued, and ensuring actual H2S emissions remain below
the emission threshold after the permitted control begins operation.

Manure Digester Facilities:

The Commission adopted provisions for all new, modified, or existing anaerobic digester
facilities that use manure as a feedstock to minimize hydrogen sulfide emissions
including fugitive gas releases. The emission control regulations require these sources
to continuously inject non-corrosive, hydrogen sulfide reducing additive directly into the
liquid slurry of the manure receiving pit to chemically bind H2S, precipitate sulfides, and
reduce H2S formation by at least 500 ppm or lower; maintain existing covers on the
tanks and/or lagoons associated with anaerobic digestion process; regularly remove
manure from the manure receiving pit to limit H2S formation; and interconnect the vapor
head space of manure storage tanks with the anaerobic digesters to effectively capture
H2S while maintaining negative pressures and preventing H2S corrosion and build-up
of volatile gas mixtures especially during agitation. The sources must demonstrate
additional best management practices which include installing and operating a gas-flow
metering and analysis using a Division-approved system to continuously measure H2S
concentrations from the anaerobic digester and scrubber outlets; maintain flares or
enclosed combustion systems to safely oxidize excess H2S when it is not routed to
energy recovery or upgrading systems; install and maintain approved filtration
equipment to remove H2S, CO2, and other contaminants prior to pipeline injection; and
perform continuous monitoring of fugitive H2S with periodic calibration and maintenance
to keep H2S within safe levels, ensuring scrubber and filter efficiency.

Non-Categorical PTAC emission sources

The Commission adopted a provision applicable to two sources that meet certain
applicability criteria for formaldehyde where the primary formaldehyde emissions are not
from a spark ignition engine or combustion turbine. One source is required to submit



                                                                                        99
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

additional information to the Division about its source-specific emissions and
opportunities for technically feasible and cost-effective emission reductions. The other
source is only required to submit source-specific emissions information. The required
analysis regarding feasible control measures must include actual annual emissions of
applicable PTAC from activities or equipment and an analysis of what control strategies
are technically feasible and cost-effective to reduce those emissions. Sources must
provide information for each emission point or activities that emits formaldehyde.

To supplement guidance already included in the existing guidance such as “Overview of
Reasonably Available Control Technology Analyses for Major Sources in the Denver
Metro and Northern Front Range (DMNFR) 2008 Ozone Nonattainment Area” guidance
from May 2017, the Division will engage with the subject source and provide additional
direction to support the development of site-specific PTAC analysis. The subject source
is not required to implement any of the PTAC emission reduction measures identified in
the site-specific analysis, absent a separate Commission rulemaking to adopt such
PTAC emission reduction measures.

The Commission also adopted an option for the subject source to submit documentation
to the Division to demonstrate that its emissions are below the applicability threshold or
outside of the covered location criteria to avoid the site-specific emissions and controls
analysis requirement.

      New and modified sources

The Commission did not, at this time, adopt a broadly applicable emissions control
strategy for new and modified sources that were not specifically identified as applicable
non-categorical sources from the Division’s data analysis. A potential framework for
permitting new and modified sources of PTAC has been presented to the General
Assembly for consideration. The framework includes steps to assess project or facility
risk from PTAC emissions. Depending on the risks estimated, the framework requires
various actions to be taken by the source. One action is referred to as "TBACT" that
would require a facility-specific analysis of feasible controls–similar to the above-
described requirement for existing sources–to be completed if certain criteria are met.

Because this framework is being evaluated by the General Assembly, the Commission
did not adopt requirements for new or modified sources that are not subject to category-
specific requirements to submit PTAC emissions and control analyses at this time. The
Commission determined that it was appropriate to wait for additional direction from the
General Assembly regarding a potential PTAC permitting program to avoid conflict or
duplication with that potential program.

Further, these revisions will correct any typographical, grammatical, and formatting
errors found within the regulation.

Incorporation by Reference

The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive.




                                                                                       100
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                               5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

Additional Considerations

There are no direct federal requirements that correspond with the new rule. However, to
the extent the new rule could be construed to exceed or differ from any related
requirements of federal law, the Commission provides the following additional
statement, consistent with § 25-7-110.5(5)(a), C.R.S.:

(I)   Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary
on those requirements;

      Emission control strategies for identified PTAC address equipment and
      operations in several sectors that are also subject to federal NESHAP/MACT or
      NSPS requirements. Discussed further under each PTAC below, Regulation
      Number 30 revisions apply on a broader basis, extend requirements to sources
      not subject to federal regulations, or complement the federal regulations with
      additional state-only requirements.

      Benzene: The Commission adopted revisions in Regulation Number 24, Part B,
      Section VI. to modify the definitions of vapor loss and leak at petroleum refineries
      and modify monitoring programs to require recording the recording and,
      subsequently, repair of leaks. These facilities may also be subject to EPA’s
      NSPS J, NSPS Ja, NSPS XX, NSPS GGG, NSPS GGGa, NSPS QQQ, NESHAP
      CC, NESHAP R, and NESHAP UUU.

      The Commission previously incorporated by reference several federal NSPS and
      NESHAP in Regulation Numbers 6 and 8 that address benzene emissions from a
      variety of facilities including, but not limited to, petroleum storage and oil and gas
      operations; 40 CFR 60, Subparts Kb, VV and VVa, GGGa, OOOO and portions
      of OOOOa and OOOOb; 40 CFR 63, Subparts G, CC, YY, HHH, FFF, and
      DDDD. 40 CFR 63 Subpart ZZZZ is also expected to reduce benzene emissions,
      which the Commission incorporates by reference with this rulemaking action for
      applicable sources. 40 CFR 63, Subparts BBBBBB and CCCCCC address
      benzene emissions from gasoline distribution at major and area sources, which
      apply at the federal level. The Commission has adopted provisions in Regulation
      24 that align with many of the federal requirements in Subparts BBBBBB and
      CCCCCC. The Commission adopted updated definitions, processes and
      subsequent monitoring, recording and repair of leaks to address benzene
      emissions at petroleum refineries. The refinery is currently subject to LDAR
      requirements in NSPS GGG and VV. However, the proposed hydrocarbon
      detection limits are more stringent than the ones in the federal rules and do not
      conflict with the federal requirements.

      Chromium Compounds, Hexavalent: The federal NESHAP at 40 CFR 63,
      Subpart N for chromium electroplating and anodizing tanks controls hexavalent
      chromium emissions from many sources applicable to the adopted emission
      control regulations for hexavalent chromium. Subpart N contains provisions for
      both major and area sources performing either decorative or functional




                                                                                        101
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                           5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

    electroplating and anodizing. Requirements include use of fume suppressants,
    composite mesh-pad systems, or packed-bed scrubbers and establishes a total
    chromium emission limitation. The adopted provisions in Part B, Section III. of
    this Regulation 30 create state-only requirements to address additional sources
    of hexavalent chromium emissions in the hard and decorative chromium plating
    and anodizing processes for area or major sources of HAP that meet applicability
    criteria.

    Ethylene Oxide: The federal NESHAP at 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart O requires
    emission control from all of the sterilizers in Colorado as well as any new
    sterilizer being built. In addition, federal FIFRA rules (Interim Decision authored
    on January 7, 2025, Case No. 2275 EPA-HQ-OPP-2013-0244) require
    monitoring of room air emissions inside these facilities. The Commission
    incorporated Subpart O by reference in this rulemaking action. This rule
    strengthened federal regulation of ethylene oxide emissions from new and
    existing sterilization facilities through a comprehensive set of requirements aimed
    at more stringent emission limits for various equipment and fugitive emission
    sources. The Commission also adopted state-only emission control regulations
    that are more stringent than federal requirements for specific sources.

    Formaldehyde: The federal NESHAP at 40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ (August 30,
    2024) targets HAP reductions, with a focus on formaldehyde limits, or alternative
    limits on carbon monoxide, by establishing emission and operating limits,
    inspection and maintenance actions, and testing requirements that apply to
    different engine categories. For most newer engines, an alternative set of
    compliance demonstrations is available by pointing to the requirements for new
    or reconstructed spark ignition (SI) reciprocating internal combustion engines in
    the NSPS, 40 CFR 60, Subpart JJJJ for emission limitations and compliance
    requirements. In deferring to Subpart JJJJ, sources that demonstrate compliance
    with Subpart ZZZZ through the NOx, VOC, and CO emission limits, CO is a
    federally recognized surrogate for formaldehyde and is therefore the most
    relevant standard for demonstrating formaldehyde reductions.

    The federal NESHAP at 40 CFR 63, Subpart YYYY (March 9, 2022) sets
    formaldehyde emission limits for stationary combustion turbines that commenced
    construction or reconstruction on or after January 14, 2023, and are located at
    major HAP sources. The primary formaldehyde numeric limit established in this
    subpart is 91 ppbvd or less corrected to 15% O2 (dry basis), except during
    turbine startup. Subpart YYYY also establishes operating limitations that require
    maintenance of a rolling average catalyst inlet temperature for turbines that
    comply by using an oxidation catalyst. Compliance with the Subpart YYYY
    requirements may be demonstrated through performance testing using EPA
    Method 320/ASTM D6348-12e1 or an EPA approved alternative, and through
    ongoing monitoring scheme. There are also federal NSPS for stationary gas
    turbines at 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart GG, KKKK, and KKKKa, which are
    incorporated into the Commission’s Regulation Number 6, except for NSPS
    Subpart KKKKa, which was finalized by EPA in January 2026. The NSPS



                                                                                   102
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

      establishes emission limits for NOx and SO2 and associated testing, monitoring,
      and reporting requirements but does not include emission limits for carbon
      monoxide.

      In this rulemaking action, the Commission incorporated provisions of both 40
      CFR 63 Parts YYYY and ZZZZ into Regulation Number 30, in some parts,
      through incorporation by reference. Major sources of HAP with applicable
      engines or turbines are already subject to federal requirements. New or
      reconstructed (after June 12, 2006) engines at area sources must comply with
      Subpart ZZZZ by instead complying with NSPS JJJJ, pursuant to 63.6590(c).
      Additionally, the Commission adopted state-only requirements for new smaller SI
      RICE at both area and major sources of HAP that are more stringent than federal
      ZZZZ formaldehyde (or surrogate CO) limits. For turbines, the CO limits adopted
      in the rule only apply to turbines that commenced construction or reconstruction
      on or after September 1, 2026, that are located at area sources of HAP.

      Hydrogen Sulfide: Hydrogen sulfide is not designated as a HAP under the CAA,
      Section 112, so there are no federal NESHAP/MACT that directly control H2S.
      There are some NSPS that indirectly control H2S as a result of required
      reductions in VOC or SO2 emissions. For the asphalt and roofing material
      manufacturing plants that are installing RTOs, the requirement adopted by the
      Commission in Regulation Number 30 reduces H2S but also relates to
      Colorado’s obligations to address ozone precursor pollutants under the state
      implementation plan (SIP). There are no federal requirements that relate to the
      requirements adopted by the Commission to reduce fugitive emissions of H2S at
      the manure anaerobic digester.

(II)  Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or
technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not,
why not;

      The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they
      largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply.
      The proposed state-only requirements are technology- and performance- based
      and to allow for maximum flexibility for demonstrating compliance.

(III) Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that
are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably
reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal process that
established the federal requirements;

      The EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data,
      not Colorado specific issues or concerns.

      Benzene: The above referenced federal requirements concerning petroleum
      storage are not as stringent as those adopted by the Commission in Regulation
      Number 30.




                                                                                      103
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

      Chromium compounds, hexavalent: 40 CFR Part 63 Subpart N does not
      adequately cover fugitive releases of hexavalent chromium of concern to
      Colorado. The adopted provisions add requirements to address fugitive
      emissions and increase the stringency of requirements for tanks that are
      controlled by fume suppressants by requiring approved fume suppressants and
      more stringent surface tension requirements. Additionally, the adopted provisions
      require one-time testing requirements for tanks and prohibit new decorative
      chromium plating operations from using and emitting hexavalent chromium.

      Ethylene Oxide. 40 CFR Part 63 Subpart O largely addresses Colorado’s
      objective to reduce emissions from its sterilization facilities. However, as a result
      of concerns regarding potential continuous monitoring costs for small sterilizers,
      the rule includes an optional method for these sources to demonstrate
      compliance. Additionally, at the time of adoption, the EPA has announced
      reconsideration of Subpart O. Adopting state-only requirements in this Regulation
      30 helps address a concern that changes at the federal level will make it more
      difficult to achieve emissions reductions for these facilities.

      Additionally, regarding the one facility that has been granted a federal exemption
      to Subpart O, the Commission notes that Section 112(d)(7) of the Clean Air Act
      preserves the authority of States to adopt and enforce more stringent emission
      limitations or standards despite any presidential proclamations. That section
      reads, “No emission standard or other requirement promulgated under this
      section shall be interpreted, construed or applied to diminish or replace the
      requirements of a more stringent emission limitation or other applicable
      requirement established pursuant to section 7411 of this title, part C or D [of the
      Clean Air Act], or other authority of this chapter or a standard issued under State
      authority.” These PTAC emission control regulations are issued under State
      authority.

      Formaldehyde: NESHAP Subpart ZZZZ does not have as stringent formaldehyde
      limits, in the form of a CO surrogate, as other states for new smaller (≥157 bhp)
      SI RICE at area and major sources. NESHAP YYYY does not include turbines at
      area sources in their source category classification. The adopted state-only
      formaldehyde, or CO surrogate, emission limits for new SI rice and new
      stationary combustion will achieve reductions of formaldehyde.

      While the NESHAP YYYY includes formaldehyde emission limits only for turbines
      at major sources of HAP, the Commission adopted applicability criteria based on
      lower thresholds than the federal HAP source designation in recognizing the
      need to address PTAC at lower levels than federal regulations due to pollutant
      toxicity and consideration of multiple exposure.

(IV) Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated
community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially
conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or
reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent requirements later;



                                                                                       104
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                              5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

      The adopted rules will provide certainty to sources, by providing specified
      technology-based performance standards and clear timing requirements. The
      adopted rules aid Colorado in achieving emissions control requirements as
      directed by Section 25-7-109.5(7) and provide regulated entities with flexibility to
      identify and cost-effectively employ available emissions control technologies to
      reduce PTAC emissions in the state.

(V)   Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for
implementation of federal requirements;

      Ethylene Oxide: The federal NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63 Subpart O) allows for
      sources to petition for a presidential exemption. One source in Colorado was
      granted this exemption; however the basis of that exemption was not provided to
      the Division or Commission staff. Based on the Division's research, which
      included a site visit to this facility, this source can reasonably comply with the
      requirements in the federal rule, with the exception of group 2 room air
      emissions. The Division has provided an interim compliance mechanism for the
      group 2 room air emissions that is technically feasible.

      These are state-specific rules that are not addressing federal requirements.
      Thus, there are no timing issues related to other applicable NESHAP or NSPS
      for the other four PTAC.

(VI) Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a
reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth;

      The adopted rules will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin
      for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth as it does not limit sources
      to specific technology to comply and aligns with regulations seen in federal and
      other state programs. Additionally, the rules establish reasonable times for
      meeting PTAC emissions control requirements. The rules afford the ability to
      affect required emissions controls through alternative compliance measures
      where appropriate and establish multiple pathways for compliance.

(VII) Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in
the requirements for various sources;

      The rule effectively targets sources of PTAC in Colorado and focuses on
      achievable emissions reductions for these PTAC. Additionally, in adopting
      emission thresholds for applicability for certain pollutants, the Commission
      ensured the criteria for making sources subject to the emission control
      regulations were equitable.

(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not
enacted;




                                                                                       105
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                             5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

      If a more stringent rule is not enacted, public health and welfare and the
      environment could face increased costs associated with delays in implementation
      of appropriate PTAC measures.

(IX) Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and
what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring
requirements;

      There are separate requirements to report or monitor PTAC from applicable
      federal regulations. Federal regulations have different monitoring and reporting
      thresholds for different types of source categories. In order for Colorado to
      protect public health and welfare and the environment, state-specific regulations
      that require more stringent or specific requirements are necessary. The rule
      addresses PTAC-specific considerations under Section 25-7-109.5 (1)(d),
      C.R.S., which states, “Emissions of toxic air contaminants should be monitored
      and controlled to levels that avoid, minimize, or mitigate harm to public health
      and the environment” as well as (2)(b), which requires the Commission to
      “Analyze public health risks from toxic air contaminant emissions from sources
      based on verified science and reporting of emissions data, including
      consideration of background levels in the ambient air.”

      Where applicable, the Commission has not adopted additional procedural,
      reporting or monitoring requirements where the federal requirements satisfy
      Colorado specific concerns.

(X)    Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed
requirement;

      In aligning with requirements in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S., the
      Commission adopted provisions that may require technology that has been
      demonstrated as available and technically feasible in other states or federal
      regulations.

(XI) Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or
address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain;

      Further quantification of emissions reduced and related cost effectiveness of the
      regulations are outlined in the rulemaking materials such as the Economic Impact
      Analysis and various technical support documents

(XII) Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the
required standard.

      The Commission is required to adopt emission control regulations that reduce
      emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reductions in disproportionately impacted
      communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs. A no-action
      alternative would not meet the statutory requirements. Alternative rules could



                                                                                      106
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                 5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission

        address this directive, such as different applicability criteria, compliance
        timelines, and emission control requirements. However, the Commission believes
        that for this initial promulgation of PTAC emission control strategies, the adopted
        applicability criteria for new and existing stationary sources as well as the
        adopted categorical and non-categorical requirements best meet the statutory
        considerations in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b), C.R.S.

Findings of Fact

After considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the
following determinations pursuant to section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.:

(I)     These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and
        sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all
        information submitted by interested parties.

(II)    Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a
        demonstrable reduction of harmful PTAC emissions and will enable the
        Commission to satisfy the requirements of section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S.

(III)   Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about
        reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to
        implement and comply with the rules.

(IV)    The rule is the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results,
        provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary reduction
        in air pollution.

(V)     The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
        effective manner.




                                                                                          107
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS     5 CCR 1001-34
Air Quality Control Commission


Editor’s Notes

History
New rule eff. 03/17/2025.
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2025.
Entire rule eff. 06/14/2026.




                                          108
