CodeofCol
        oradoRegul
                 ati
                   ons
Secr
   etar
      yofStat
            e
St
 ateofCol
        orado




    DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT

    Air Quality Control Commission

    REGULATION NUMBER 1

    EMISSION CONTROL FOR PARTICULATE MATTER, SMOKE, CARBON MONOXIDE, AND SULFUR
    OXIDES

    5 CCR 1001-3
    [Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Outline of Regulation

    I.        Applicability and General Provisions

    II.       Smoke and Opacity Requirements

    III.      Particulate Matter Requirements

    IV.       Continuous Emission Monitoring Requirements for New or Existing Sources

    V.        Emission Standards for Existing Iron and Steel Plant Operations

    VI.       Sulfur Dioxide Emission Regulations

    VII.      Emission Regulations for Certain Electric Generating Stations Owned and Operated by the Public
              Service Company of Colorado

    VIII.     Restrictions on the Use of Oil as a Backup Fuel

    IX.       Emission Regulations Concerning Areas which are Nonattainment or Attainment/Maintenance for
              Carbon Monoxide – Refinery Fluid Bed Catalytic Cracking Units

    X.        Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

    _________________________________________________________________________

    Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes § 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated by reference are
    available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies may be obtained at a reasonable
    cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver,
    Colorado 80246-1530. The material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States
    Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by reference are those
    editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any later amendments.

    I.        Applicability and General Provisions

    I.A.      Applicability (referenced federal regulations)




                                                                                                           1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        I.A.1.   The provisions of this Regulation Number 1 are applicable to both new and existing
                 sources and without regard to whether a source has been issued an emission permit.
                 Except where specifically made applicable to attainment, attainment/maintenance or non-
                 attainment areas, the requirements set forth herein apply statewide. (Areas designated
                 as unclassifiable shall be treated as attainment). The provisions of this regulation apply to
                 a source even though it may also be subject to other regulations of the commission; and
                 in the event the requirements of this regulation conflict or are inconsistent with the
                 requirements of any other regulation of the commission, the more stringent emission
                 limitations shall apply except that a specific emission limitation for a particular source
                 shall take precedence over a general emission limitation which is inconsistent.

        I.A.2.   As of October 15, 2024, the provisions of Regulation Number 1 are implemented on a
                 state-only basis for purposes of carbon monoxide.

I.B.    Definitions

        I.B.1.   ASTM means American Society for Testing and Materials

        I.B.2.   EPA means United States Environmental Protection Agency

        I.B.3.   Fugitive Emissions means emissions that cannot be reasonably collected and passed
                 through a stack, chimney, vent or other equivalent opening.

        I.B.4.   gr/dscf means grains per dry standard cubic foot.

        I.B.5.   Haul Roads means roads which are used for commercial, industrial or governmental
                 hauling of materials and which the general public does not have a right to use.

        I.B.6.   Intermittent Sources means those stationary sources of air pollution which do not operate
                 on a continuous basis for a period of time sufficient to allow for opacity observations in
                 accordance with EPA Method 9 (July, 1992).

        I.B.7.   PM means Particulate Matter

        I.B.8.   Roadways means roads, other than haul roads, used for motorized vehicular traffic.

        I.B.9.   Welfare means as used in these regulations, effects on public welfare include, but are not
                 limited to, effects on soils, water, crops, vegetation, manmade materials, animals, wildlife,
                 weather, visibility, and climate, damage to and deterioration of property, and hazards to
                 transportation, as well as effects on economic values and on personal comfort and
                 wellbeing.

II.     Smoke and Opacity Requirements

II.A.   Stationary Sources

        II.A.1. Except as provided in paragraphs 2 through 6 below, no owner or operator of a source
                should allow or cause the emission into the atmosphere of any air pollutant that is in
                excess of 20% opacity. This standard is based on 24 consecutive opacity readings taken
                at 15-second intervals for six minutes. The approved reference test method for visible
                emissions measurement is EPA Method 9 (40 CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)) in
                all subsections of Section II. A and B of this regulation.




                                                                                                             2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


      II.A.2. Intermittent Sources

      Except as provided in paragraphs 3 through 6 below, no owner or operator of an intermittent
      source shall allow or cause the emission into the atmosphere of any pollutant that is in excess of
      20% opacity. If EPA Method 9 (40 CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)), a continuous
      emissions monitor, or other credible method is used and 24 consecutive opacity readings taken at
      15-second intervals cannot be taken because such a source does not operate continuously for six
      minutes, the readings shall be taken at 15-second intervals during periods of operation until 24
      readings have been made or for a period of thirty minutes, whichever is sooner, and the source
      shall be deemed in violation if the average opacity of such readings exceed 20%.

      II.A.3. Pilot Plants and Experimental Operations

      No owner or operator of a process unit of a pilot plant or experimental operation shall emit or
      cause to be emitted into the atmosphere from any such process unit particulate matter for a
      period or periods aggregating more than six minutes in any sixty consecutive minutes which is in
      excess of 30% opacity.

      Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph this emission standard for pilot plants and
      experimental operations shall be applicable for a period not to exceed 180-operating days
      cumulative total from the date operation of such a process unit commences; thereafter the 20%
      opacity limitation provided in Section II.A.1 or 2 of these regulations shall apply to emissions from
      such a process unit of a pilot plant or experimental operation. For the purpose of this Section
      II.A.3 “Operating Days” shall mean any calendar day during which the process unit is operated
      and air pollutants are emitted (without regard to the length of period of time operated or amount of
      pollutants emitted). For good cause shown, the division may extend the period of relaxed
      operation beyond 180 operating days for the operation of a process unit, but in no event to
      greater than 365 operating days without the concurrence of the commission.

      II.A.4. Fire Building, Cleaning of Fire Boxes, Soot Blowing, Start-up, Process Modification or
              Adjustment of Control Equipment Except as provided in Sections II.A.6, no owner or
              operator of a source shall allow or cause to be emitted into the atmosphere any air
              pollutant resulting from the building of a new fire, cleaning of fire boxes, soot blowing,
              start-up, any process modification, or adjustment or occasional cleaning of control
              equipment, which is in excess of 30% opacity for a period or periods aggregating more
              than six minutes in any sixty consecutive minutes.

      II.A.5. Smokeless Flare or Flares for the Combustion of Waste Gases

      No owner or operator of a smokeless flare or other flare for the combustion of waste gases shall
      allow or cause emissions into the atmosphere of any air pollutant which is in excess of 30%
      opacity for a period or periods aggregating more than six minutes in any sixty consecutive
      minutes.

      II.A.6. Exemptions

      The requirements of Section II.A.1 and II.A.2 of this regulation shall not apply to the following
      sources or types of emissions:

              II.A.6.a Emissions from fireplaces, fireplace inserts and stoves, provided such devices
                       are burning only clean dry wood or wood products and are used for
                       noncommercial or recreational purposes.




                                                                                                           3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                II.A.6.b. Fugitive dust: As used in this Regulation Number 1, “fugitive dust” means
                          airborne particulate matter, which is not a direct or proximate result of man's
                          activities.

                II.A.6.c. Fugitive particulate emissions: As used in this Regulation Number 1, “fugitive
                          particulate emissions” mean fugitive emissions of particulate matter that are the
                          direct or proximate result of man's activities, (e.g., Materials left by man exposed
                          to the wind or later acted upon by another force as the wind or automobile traffic,
                          or particulate matter being thrown into the atmosphere by the operation of a
                          bulldozer.)

II.B.   Diesel Powered Locomotives

        II.B.1. Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, no owner or operator shall emit or cause to be
                emitted into the atmosphere from any diesel-powered locomotive any air pollutant which
                is in excess of 20% opacity while being operated below 6,000 feet (mean sea level) and
                30% opacity while being operated above 6,000 feet (mean sea level).

        II.B.2. Exceptions

                II.B.2.a. Emissions that exceed the opacity limits of Section II.B.1. as a result of a cold
                          engine start-up, not to exceed thirty consecutive minutes and provided the
                          locomotive is in a stationary position.

                II.B.2.b. Emissions for nonconsecutive periods of three minutes with an aggregate of not
                          more than ten minutes in any consecutive sixty minutes when a locomotive
                          engine is being tested, adjusted, rebuilt, or repaired in the maintenance yards.

                II.B.2.c. Emissions for periods of up to four minutes when a locomotive is accelerated
                          after standing still.

        II.B.3. The owner or operator of any diesel-powered locomotive that has been cited for violation
                of Section II.B.1. of this regulation, but which is not available for compliance inspection
                shall submit to the division an affidavit attesting to those abatement measures which
                have been completed and shall state in that affidavit that the vehicles cited have
                achieved compliance with this regulation.

II.C.   Open Burning

        II.C.1. Except as provided, no person shall burn or allow the burning of rubbish, wastepaper,
                wood or other flammable material on any open premises, or on any public street, alley, or
                other land adjacent to such premises, unless an open burning permit is first obtained
                from the division. In granting or denying such permits the division shall base its decision
                on the location and proximity of such burning to any building or other structure, the
                potential contribution of such burning to air pollution in the area, climactic conditions on
                the day or days of such burning, and compliance by the applicant for the permit with
                applicable fire protection and safety requirements of the local authority.




                                                                                                              4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             The division may consider: (A) Whether there is any practical alternative method for the
             disposal of the material to by burn and (B) Whether burning will be conducted so as to
             minimize emissions. Methods for minimizing emissions may include, but are not
             necessarily limited to, the use of permitted incinerators or air curtain destructors, the use
             of clean auxiliary fuel, drying the material prior to ignition and separating out for
             alternative disposal: Rubber, tires, plastic, insulated wire, insulation, and other materials
             which produce more smoke than clean combustible materials. Sources subject to the
             open burning provisions in this regulation Number 1 may also be subject to state only
             Regulation Number 9.

             II.C.1.a.           Whether there is any practical alternative method for the disposal of the
                         material to be burned.

      II.C.2. Sources Exempted from obtaining open burning permits

             II.C.2.a. The non-commercial burning of private household trash in PM attainment areas
                       unless local ordinances or rules prohibit such burning.

             II.C.2.b. Fires used for non-commercial cooking of food for human beings or recreational
                       purposes.

             II.C.2.c. Fires used for instructional or training purposes, except instructional or training
                       wildland pile or broadcast fires larger than the de minimus thresholds of a low
                       smoke impact burn pursuant to Appendix A of Regulation Number 9.

                         II.C.2.c.(i)       Training or instructional fires must comply with all applicable
                                   federal, state and local laws including the demolition notification
                                   requirements in Regulation Number 8, Part B, section III.E.1. for
                                   intentional structural fires.

             II.C.2.d. Flares used to indicate some danger to the public.

             II.C.2.e. Agricultural open burning – The open burning of cover vegetation for the purpose
                       of preparing the soil for crop production, weed control, and other agricultural
                       cultivation purposes. The open burning of animal parts or carcasses is not
                       included in the exemption. Except that, if the State Agricultural commission
                       declares a public health emergency or a contagious or infectious disease
                       outbreak that imperils the livestock of the state that requires the burning of
                       diseased animal carcasses after providing telephone notice to the division and
                       the relevant local health department office by leaving a voice mail message. All
                       necessary safeguards shall be utilized during such non-permitted open burning
                       to minimize any public health or welfare impacts. In addition, the owner or
                       operator shall take steps to ensure that all surrounding and potentially impacted
                       residents, businesses, schools and churches are notified prior to beginning the
                       open burn.

             II.C.2.f. Noncommercial burning of trash in the unincorporated areas of counties of less
                       than 25,000 population according to the latest federal census provided such
                       open burning is subject to regulations of the board of county commissioners for
                       such county adopted by resolution and such regulations include, among other
                       things, permit provisions and prohibit any such burning that would result in the
                       exceedence of any NAAQS.




                                                                                                              5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        II.C.3. Nothing herein shall be construed as relieving any person conducting open burning from
                meeting the requirements of any applicable federal, state or local requirements
                concerning disposal of waste materials.

II.D.   Smoke and Obscurants for Military Training Exercises Emissions associated with the generation
        of smoke or obscurants on Fort Carson and Pinon Canyon maneuver site (hereafter, referred
        together as Fort Carson) by United States military forces, or allied forces in a combined training
        exercise with the United States, shall be exempt from the opacity limits specified in Regulation
        Number 1, sections II. and III. provided that all of the following conditions are met:

        II.D.1. All participants in the training shall follow all applicable Department of Defense training
                manuals and guidance regarding Department of Defense-approved smokes and
                obscurants.

        II.D.2. No off-property transport of visible emissions from any smoke or obscurants used on Fort
                Carson shall occur.

        II.D.3. Smoke or obscurants generation shall cease immediately in the event that any such
                visible emissions cross or has a reasonable probability of crossing the installation
                property boundary.

        II.D.4. The commander in charge of any training involving smoke or obscurants will ensure the
                following precautionary measures are implemented.

                II.D.4.a.            When planning and conducting training, prevailing meteorological
                            conditions will be analyzed, both before and on the day of training, to determine if
                            they meet established training criteria for the use of smoke or obscurants and to
                            allow compliance with the requirements of paragraph 3 above. If the
                            meteorological conditions do not meet those criteria, then smoke or obscurants
                            will not be employed.

                II.D.4.b.           Prior to using smoke or obscurants, inspect and validate the training site
                            and the training mission.

                II.D.4.c.            Upon initiation of smoke or obscurant generation, observe the initial
                            smoke or obscurant plume to verify that it conforms to established training criteria
                            and to allow compliance with the requirements of paragraph 3 above. If the wind
                            direction and speed is not favorable for the exercise, then the location will be
                            adjusted or the smoke mission will be postponed or canceled.

                II.D.4.d.           Post one or more trained smoke observers to provide direct observation
                            of the smoke/obscurant plume at all times while smoke or obscurants are used
                            during the training. Smoke observers will remain alert for visible smoke that has a
                            reasonable probability of drifting across the installation property boundary, in
                            which case the smoke observer shall have the authority to immediately halt
                            smoke generation operations. The smoke observer(s) must maintain capability
                            for immediate communication with the officer commanding the use of smoke or
                            obscurants used in the training exercise.

                II.D.4.e.            Units conducting training using smoke or obscurants on Fort Carson
                            must perform necessary checks with Fort Carson range division to assure
                            immediate communication capability, including capability to request or obtain
                            meteorological updates. In the event of failure to maintain such capability, the
                            training exercise will be halted.




                                                                                                               6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


         II.D.5. In the event visible emissions from smoke or obscurant use drift across the installation
                 property boundary, Fort Carson shall implement necessary response measures to
                 minimize impacts and shall inform the state as soon as possible, but no later than 24
                 hours or the next business day after the event. A written notice shall follow this
                 notification within 48 hours to the state detailing the circumstances of the occurrence and
                 stating whether additional measures will be adopted to prevent such visible emissions
                 from drifting across the boundary in the future.

         II.D.6. Installation commander, Fort Carson, shall be responsible to ensure compliance with this
                 section by all personnel employing smoke or obscurants at Fort Carson.

III.     Particulate Matter Requirements

III.A.   Fuel Burning Equipment

         III.A.1. No owner or operator shall cause or permit to be emitted into the atmosphere from any
                  fuel-burning equipment, particulate matter in the flue gases which exceeds the following:

                 III.A.1.a.        0.5 lbs. per 106 BTU heat input for fuel burning equipment of less than or
                           equal to 1x106 BTU/hr total heat input design capacity.

                 III.A.1.b.        For fuel burning equipment with designed heat inputs greater than 1x10 6
                           BTU per hour, but less than or equal to 500x106 BTU per hour, the following
                           equation will be used to determine the allowable particulate emission limitation.

                                  PE=0.5(FI)-0.26

                                  Where:

                                  PE = Particulate Emission in Pounds per million BTU heat input.

                                  FI = Fuel Input in Million BTU per hour.

                 III.A.1.c.       0.1 lbs. per 106 BTU heat input for fuel burning equipment of greater than
                           500x10 BTU per hour or more.
                                 6



                 III.A.1.d.        If two (2) or more fuel burning units connect to any opening, the
                           maximum allowable emission rate shall be calculated on a lb/ hour basis as
                           calculated from a weighted average of the individual allowable limits for each unit
                           ducting to the common stack.

         III.A.2. Performance Tests

                 Prior to granting of a final approval permit or amending a permit, when an emission
                 source or control equipment is altered, or at any time when there is reason to believe that
                 emission standards are being violated, the division may require the owner or operator of
                 any fuel burning equipment to conduct performance tests, as measured by EPA Methods
                 1–4 and the front half of EPA Method 5 (40 CFR 60.275 (Aug. 25. 2023)), Appendix A,
                 Part 60 (March 29, 2023), or other credible method approved by the division, to
                 determine compliance with this subsection of this regulation. The particulate emission
                 standards contained in this subsection do not include condensable particulate matter, or
                 the back half emissions of EPA Method 5 (March 29, 2023).




                                                                                                              7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


III.B.   Incinerators

         III.B.1. No owner or operator of an incinerator shall operate any incinerator without a permit from
                  the division.

         III.B.2. Standard of Performance for all incinerators other than biomedical waste incinerators and
                  air curtain destructors subject to 40 CFR Part 60.

                 III.B.2.a.         In areas designated as non-attainment or attainment/maintenance for
                           particulate matter, no owner or operator of an incinerator shall cause or permit
                           emissions of more than 0.10 grain of particulate matter per standard cubic foot.
                           (Dry flue gas corrected to 12 percent carbon dioxide.)

                 III.B.2.b.         In areas designated as attainment for particulate matter, no owner or
                           operator of an incinerator shall cause or permit emissions of more than 0.15
                           grain of particulate matter per standard cubic foot. (Dry Flue gas corrected to 12
                           percent carbon dioxide.)

         III.B.3. Performance Tests

         Prior to granting a final approval permit or amending a permit, when an emission source or
         control equipment is altered, or at any time when there is reason to believe that emission
         standards are being violated, the division may require the owner or operator of an incinerator to
         conduct performance test(s) in accordance with 40 CFR 60 Appendix A.

         III.B.4. Standard of Performance for Biomedical Waste Incinerators.

         The owner or operator of an existing incinerator used for the disposal of biomedical waste shall
         comply with Part B, Section V of Regulation Number 6. Standard of Performance for New
         Biomedical Waste Incinerators as follows:

                 III.B.4.a.        All incinerators, existing as of the effective date of Part B, Section V of
                           Regulation Number 6, with a design rate of four hundred pounds per hour and
                           greater must comply with the requirements of this regulation.

                 III.B.4.b.          All incinerators, existing as of the effective date of Part B, Section V of
                           Regulation Number 6, with a design capacity of less than four hundred pounds
                           per hour must comply with the requirements of this regulation as applicable;
                           except incinerators with a design capacity of less than 200 pounds per hour shall
                           be permitted and allowed to operate only so long as the units continue to meet
                           the particulate and visible emission standards existing prior to the effective date
                           of Part B, Section V of Regulation Number6, the manufacturer's design
                           specifications and any other applicable safety standards. (The standards existing
                           prior to the effective date of this regulation are: a) For sources existing prior to
                           January 30, 1979: 20% opacity and 0.10 grains per dry standard cubic foot
                           (gr/dscf) of PM for PM non-attainment areas and 0.15 gr/dscf of PM for PM
                           attainment areas; b) 20% opacity and 0.10 gr/dscf of PM for sources constructed
                           after January 30, 1979.)

III.C.   Manufacturing Processes

         III.C.1. Except as provided in paragraphs 2 of this subsection C., no owner or operator of a
                  manufacturing process unit shall cause or permit emission of any particulate matter into
                  the atmosphere during any consecutive sixty minute period which is in excess of the
                  following.




                                                                                                                 8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                 III.C.1.a.        For process equipment having design rates of 30 tons per hour or less,
                          the allowable emission rate shall be determined by the use of the equation:

                                  PE = 3.59(P)0.62

                                  Where:

                                  PE = Particulate Emission in lbs. per hour

                                  P = Process weight rate in tons per hour

                 III.C.1.b.       For process equipment having design rates of greater than 30 tons per
                          hour, the allowable emission rate shall be determined by use of the equation:

                                  PE = 17.31(P)0.16

                                  Where:

                                  PE = Particulate Emission rate in lbs. per hour

                                  P = Process weight rate in tons per hour

                 III.C.1.c.       If two or more process units are connected to the same opening, the
                           maximum allowable emission rate shall be computed by summing the allowable
                           emissions for the units being operated.

         III.C.2. Exceptions

         Fugitive dust and fugitive particulate emissions as defined in Section II.A.6 of this Regulation.

         III.C.3. Performance Tests

         Prior to granting of a final approval permit or amending a permit, when an emission source or
         control equipment is altered, or at any time when there is reason to believe that emission
         standards are being violated, the division may require the owner or operator of any manufacturing
         process to conduct performance tests, as measured by EPA Methods 1–4 and the front half of
         EPA Method 5 (40 CFR 60.275 (Aug. 25. 2023), Appendix A, Part 60 (March 29, 2023), or other
         credible method approved by the division, to determine compliance with this subsection of this
         regulation. The particulate emission standards contained in this subsection do not include
         condensable particulate matter, or the back half emissions of EPA Method 5 (40 CFR 60.275,
         (Aug. 25. 2023), Appendix A, Part 60 (March 29, 2023).

III.D.   Fugitive Particulate Emissions

         III.D.1. General Requirements

                 III.D.1.a.       Existing Sources




                                                                                                             9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                      III.D.1.a.(i)     Every owner or operator of a source or activity that is subject to
                               this Section III.D. shall employ such control measures and operating
                               procedures as are necessary to minimize fugitive particulate emissions
                               into the atmosphere through the use of all available practical methods
                               which are technologically feasible and economically reasonable and
                               which reduce, prevent and control emissions so as to facilitate the
                               achievement of the maximum practical degree of air purity in every
                               portion of the State.

                      III.D.1.a.(ii)     In determining what control methods are available, practical,
                               economically reasonable and technologically feasible, the following
                               factors shall be considered: effects on the health, welfare (as defined in
                               Section I.G. of the Common Provisions regulation), convenience, and
                               comfort of the inhabitants of the State of Colorado; effects on the
                               enjoyment and use of the scenic and natural resources of the State; the
                               impact on normal operating procedures; altitude, topography, climate,
                               and anticipated meteorological conditions (including wind and
                               precipitation); soil conditions; the degree to which a type of emission to
                               be controlled is significant; the continuous, intermittent, or seasonal
                               nature of the emission, the economic, environmental, and energy
                               impacts and other costs of compliance; the proximity of the source or
                               activity to populated areas; and the nature, scope and duration of the
                               source or activity.

                      III.D.1.a.(iii) This Section III.D. shall be enforceable only through the
                               procedures specified below in Section III.D.1.b. through III.D.1.e.

             III.D.1.b.       New Sources

                      Every owner or operator of a new source or activity that is subject to this Section
                      III.D. and which is required to obtain an emission permit under Regulation
                      Number 3 shall submit a fugitive particulate emission control plan meeting the
                      requirements of this Section III.D. at such time as, and as part of, the required
                      permit application. Such plan shall be approved or disapproved by the division in
                      the course of acting to approve or disapprove the permit application and no
                      emission permit shall be issued until a fugitive particulate emission control plan
                      has been approved.




                                                                                                         10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             III.D.1.c.       Emission Limitation Guidelines for Submission of Control Plan.

                      If the division determines that a source of activity which is subject to this Section
                      III.D. (whether new or existing) is operating with emissions in excess of 20%
                      opacity and such source is subject to the 20% emission limitation guideline; or if
                      it determines that the source or activity which is subject to this Section III.D. is
                      operating with visible emissions that are being transported off the property on
                      which the source is located and such source is subject is to the no off property
                      transport emission limitation guideline; or if it determines that any source or
                      activity which is subject to this Section III.D. is operating with emissions that
                      create a nuisance; it shall require the owner or operator of that source or activity
                      to submit a written plan to the division for the control of fugitive particulate
                      emissions within the time period specified in Section III.D. Provided, however,
                      that in the case of a source or activity which already has a control plan, the
                      division shall review said control plan and if it determines the plan does not meet
                      the requirements of this Section III.D. it shall require the submission of a revised
                      control plan. (As used herein, “nuisance” shall mean the emission of fugitive
                      particulates that constitutes a private or public nuisance as defined in common
                      law, the essence of which is that such emissions are unreasonable interfering
                      with another person's use and enjoyment of his property. Such interference must
                      be “substantial” in its nature as measured by a standard that it would be of
                      definite offensiveness, inconvenience, or annoyance to a normal person in the
                      community.)

                      [Cross Reference: Appendices A and B]

             III.D.1.d.       Control Plans

                      III.D.1.d.(i)     With respect to operations or activities that have more than one
                               source of fugitive particulate emissions, submissions of control plans or
                               plan revisions pursuant to Section III.D. shall be required only with
                               respect to those individual sources for which there does not exist a
                               currently approvable control plan and which are not being operated in
                               accordance with the requirements of this Section III.D., provided,
                               however, that control plans required by Section III.D.1.b for new sources
                               and activities shall contain provisions for control of fugitive particulate
                               emissions from all significant sources of such emissions.

                      III.D.1.d.(ii)    Sources required to submit control plans for revisions to the
                               division shall do so within sixty days of the date such plan or revision is
                               requested; provided, however, that the division, in its discretion, may
                               where appropriate establish a different time period for submittal, taking
                               into consideration such factors as the duration of the operation of the
                               source or activity, the significance and nature of the emissions, and the
                               relative complexity of the operation and applicable control methods.




                                                                                                         11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                       III.D.1.d.(iii)   Each control plan shall include all available practical methods
                                which are technologically feasible and economically reasonable and
                                which reduce, prevent and control fugitive particulate emissions from the
                                source or activity into the atmosphere. For those materials, equipment,
                                services or other resources (such as water for abatement and control
                                purposes), which are likely to be scarce at any given time, an alternative
                                control method must be included in the control plan. Any source required
                                to submit a control plan may ask for a “control plan conference” with the
                                division, and if so requested the division shall hold such a conference for
                                the purpose of advising what types of control measures and/or operating
                                procedures will meet the requirements of this section.

                               [Cross Reference: Sections III.D.2.a. through III.D.2.k.]

                       III.D.1.d.(iv)    The division shall approve any plan submitted under this Section
                                III.D. unless the division determines that the plan does not meet the
                                requirements of Section III.D. If a control plan is not approvable in its
                                entirety, the division shall approve those portions, which meet the
                                requirements of this section and disapprove those portions, which fail to
                                meet the requirements of this section.

              III.D.1.e.       Enforcement

                       III.D.1.e.(i)    It shall be a violation of this regulation and the division may take
                                enforcement action pursuant to C.R.S. (2024), 25-7-115, if the owner or
                                operator:

                               III.D.1.e.(ii)(A) Fails to submit a control plan (or revision of an existing
                                        plan) within sixty days (or other time period specified by the
                                        division) after being notified by the division that such submittal is
                                        required unless operation of such source is discontinued so as to
                                        permanently eliminate the cause of fugitive particulate emissions
                                        there from; or

                               III.D.1.e.(ii)(B) Owns or operates a source or activity for which the
                                        division has disapproved a control plan or a revised control plan
                                        unless operation of such source is discontinued so as to
                                        permanently eliminate the cause of fugitive particulate emissions
                                        there from; or

                               III.D.1.e.(ii)(C) Fails to comply with the provisions of an approved
                                        control plan.

                       III.D.1.e.(iii)  The 20% opacity, no off-property transport, and nuisance
                                emission limitation guidelines of this Section III.D. are not enforceable
                                standards and no person shall be cited for violation thereof pursuant to
                                C.R.S. (2024), 25-7-115.

      III.D.2. Sources Subject to Section III.D.

      The control measures and operating procedures listed in Sections III.D.2.a. through III.D.2.k. are
      generally considered appropriate for the specific types of sources under which they are listed – at
      least as applied individually. Whether they remain appropriate when used in combination with
      other measures and procedures, must be determined on a case-by-case basis.




                                                                                                            12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             III.D.2.a.         Roadways

                      III.D.2.a.(i)      Unpaved

                                III.D.2.a.(i)(A)   Applicability – Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                                III.D.2.a.(i)(B)   General Requirement

                                Any owner or operator responsible for construction or maintenance of
                                any (existing or new) unpaved roadway which has vehicle traffic
                                exceeding 200 vehicles per day in attainment areas or 150 vehicles per
                                day in non-attainment areas (averaged over any consecutive 3-day
                                period) from which fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be
                                required to use all available, practical methods which are technologically
                                feasible and economically reasonable in order to minimize emissions
                                resulting from the use of such roadway in accordance with the
                                requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                                III.D.2.a.(i)(C)   Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                                The nuisance emission limitation guideline shall apply to unpaved
                                roadways. Abatement and control plans submitted for unpaved roadways
                                shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of Section III.D.
                                of this regulation.

                                III.D.2.a.(i)(D)   Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                                Control measures or operations procedures to be employed may include
                                but are not necessarily limited to, watering, chemical stabilization, road
                                carpeting, paving, suggested speed restrictions and other methods or
                                techniques approved by the division.

                                III.D.2.a.(i)(E) If the division receives a complaint that any new or
                                         existing unpaved roadway is creating a nuisance, it may require
                                         persons owning or operating or maintaining such roadways to
                                         supply vehicle traffic count information by any reasonable
                                         available means for the purpose of determining if they have
                                         sufficient traffic to subject them to the requirements of this
                                         Section III.D.

                      III.D.2.a.(ii)     Paved

                                III.D.2.a.(ii)(A) Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas




                                                                                                         13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                                III.D.2.a.(ii)(B) General Requirement

                                Any person who through operations or activities repeatedly deposits
                                materials which may create fugitive particulate emissions on a public or
                                private paved roadway is required to submit a control and abatement
                                plan upon request by the division which provides for the removal of such
                                deposits and appropriate measures to prevent future deposits such that
                                fugitive particulate emissions which may result are minimized; except
                                that sand, salt or other materials may be dropped on snow or ice covered
                                roadways for the purpose of safety and such deposits shall not be
                                required to be removed on a more frequent basis than the community's
                                normal street cleaning schedule except as otherwise provided in an
                                applicable SIP provision.

                                III.D.2.a.(ii)(C) Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                                The nuisance emission limitation guideline shall apply to paved
                                roadways. Abatement and control plans submitted for paved roadways
                                shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of section III.D.
                                of this regulation.

                                III.D.2.a.(ii)(D) Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                                Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include
                                but are not necessarily limited to, covering the loaded haul truck,
                                washing or otherwise treating the exterior of the vehicle, limiting the size
                                of the load and the vehicle speed, watering or treating the load with
                                chemical suppressants, keeping the roadway access point free of
                                materials that may be carried onto the roadway, removal of materials
                                from the roadway and other methods or techniques approved by the
                                division.

             III.D.2.b.         Construction Activities

                      III.D.2.b.(i)     Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.b.(ii)    General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator engaged in clearing or leveling of land or owner or
                      operator of land that has been cleared of greater than five acres in attainment
                      areas or one (1) acre in non-attainment areas from which fugitive particulate
                      emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available and practical
                      methods which are technologically feasible and economically reasonable in order
                      to minimize such emissions in accordance with the requirements of Section III.D.
                      of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.b.(iii)   Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Both the 20% opacity and the no off-property transport emission limitation
                      guidelines shall apply to construction activities; except that with respect to
                      sources or activities associated with construction for which there are separate
                      requirements set forth in this regulation, the emission limitation guidelines there
                      specified as applicable to such sources and activities shall apply. Abatement and
                      control plans submitted for construction activities shall be evaluated for
                      compliance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.




                                                                                                         14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                      [Cross Reference: Subsections e. and f. of Section III.D.2. of this regulation.]

                      III.D.2.b.(iv)    Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not necessarily limited to, planting vegetation cover, providing synthetic cover,
                      watering, chemical stabilization, furrows, compacting, minimizing disturbed area
                      in the winter, wind breaks and other methods or techniques approved by the
                      division.

             III.D.2.c.         Storage and Handling of Materials

                      III.D.2.c.(i)     Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.c.(ii)    General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator or any new or existing materials storage and handling
                      operation from which fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be
                      required to use all available practical methods which are technologically feasible
                      and economically reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance
                      with the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.c.(iii)   Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Both the 20% opacity and the no off-property transport emission limitation
                      guidelines shall apply to storage and handling operations. Abatement and control
                      plans submitted for storage and handling operations shall be evaluated for
                      compliance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.c.(iv)    Control Measures And Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not necessarily limited to, the use of enclosures, covers, stabilization,
                      compacting, watering, limitation of fines and other methods or techniques
                      approved by the division.

             III.D.2.d.         Mining Activities

                      III.D.2.d.(i)     Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.d.(ii)    General Requirements

                      Any owner or operator of any new or existing mining operation from which
                      fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technologically feasible and economically
                      reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.




                                                                                                         15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                   III.D.2.d.(iii)     Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                   Both the 20% opacity and the no off-property transport emission limitation
                   guidelines shall apply to mining activities' except that with respect to sources or
                   activities associated with mining for which there are separate requirements set
                   forth in this regulation, the emission limitation guidelines there specified as
                   applicable to such sources and activities shall apply. Abatement and control
                   plans submitted for mining activities shall be evaluated for compliance with the
                   requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                   III.D.2.(iv)        Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                   Control measures or operating procedures to be employed may include, but are
                   not necessarily limited to:

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(A) watering or chemical stabilization of unpaved roads as
                                      often as necessary to minimize re-entrainment of fugitive
                                      particulate matter from the road surface, or paving of roads;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(B) prompt removal of coal, rock minerals, soil, and other
                                      dust-forming debris from paved roads and scraping and
                                      compaction of unpaved roads to stabilize the road surface as
                                      often as necessary to minimize re-entrainment of fugitive
                                      particulate matter from the road surface;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(C) restricting the speed of vehicles in and around the
                                      mining operation;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(D) revegetating, mulching, or otherwise stabilizing the
                                      surface of all areas adjoining roads that are a source of fugitive
                                      particulate emissions;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(E) to the extent practicable restricting vehicular travel
                                      vehicles to established roads;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(F) enclosing, covering, watering, or otherwise treating
                                      loaded haul trucks and railroad cars, or limiting size of load, to
                                      minimize loss of material to wind and spillage;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(G) substitution of conveyor systems for haul trucks;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(H) minimizing the area of disturbed land;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(I)   prompt revegetation of disturbed surface areas;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(J) planting of special windbreak vegetation at critical points;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(K) restricting the areas to be blasted at any one time;

                             III.D.2.d.(iv)(L) reducing the period of time between initially disturbing
                                      the soil and revegetating or other surface stabilization;




                                                                                                           16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                           5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                                    III.D.2.d.(iv)(M) control of fugitive particulate emissions from storage
                                             piles through use of enclosures, covers, or stabilization,
                                             minimizing the slope of the upwind face of the pile, confining as
                                             much pile activity as possible to the downwind side of the pile
                                             and other methods or techniques as approved by the division.

                                    [Cross Reference: sections a., b., c., e., f., g., and i. of Section III.D.2. of
                                    this regulation.]

             III.D.2.e.             Haul Roads

                          III.D.2.e.(i)      Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                          III.D.2.e.(ii)     General Requirement

                          Any owner or operator of any new or existing haul road which has vehicle traffic
                          exceeding 40 haul vehicles or 200 total vehicles per day (averaged over any
                          consecutive 3-day period) from which fugitive particulate emissions will be
                          emitted shall be required to use all available practical methods which are
                          technologically feasible and economically reasonable in order to minimize such
                          emissions in accordance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                          III.D.2.e.(iii)    Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                          The no off-property transport emission limitation guideline shall apply to on-site
                          haul roads (i.e., those located on and abutted by the property owned or under
                          control of the owner or operator of the haul road) and the nuisance guideline
                          shall apply to off-site haul roads (i.e., those abutted on both sides by property not
                          owned or under the control of the owner or operator of the haul road). Abatement
                          and control plans submitted for haul roads shall be evaluated for compliance with
                          the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                          III.D.2.e.(iv)     Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                          Control measures and operational procedures to be employed may include, but
                          are not necessarily limited to, the use of vehicular speed reduction, watering,
                          chemical stabilization, road carpeting and other methods of techniques approved
                          by the division.

                          III.D.2.e.(v)    The division may require persons owning or operating or
                                   maintaining any new or existing haul roads to supply vehicle traffic count
                                   information by any reasonable available means for the purpose of
                                   determining if they have sufficient traffic to subject them to the
                                   requirements of this Section III.D.

             III.D.2.f.             Haul Trucks

                          III.D.2.f.(i)      Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas




                                                                                                                  17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                      III.D.2.f.(ii)     General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator of any new or existing haul trucks from which fugitive
                      particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technologically feasible and economically
                      reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.f.(iii)    Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      The no off-property transport emission limitation guideline shall apply to haul
                      trucks; except that when operating off the property of the owner or operator, the
                      applicable guideline shall be no off-vehicle transport of visible emissions.
                      Abatement and control plans submitted for haul trucks shall be evaluated for
                      compliance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.f.(iv)     Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operation procedures to be employed may include but are
                      not necessarily limited to, covering the materials, washing or otherwise treating
                      loaded haul trucks to remove materials from the exterior of the vehicle prior to
                      transporting materials, limiting load size, wetting the load and other methods or
                      techniques approved by the division.

                      [Cross Reference: C.R.S. 1994, Section 42-4-1207]

             III.D.2.g.          Tailings Piles and Ponds

                      III.D.2.g.(i)      Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.g.(ii)     General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator of any new or existing tailings piles and ponds from which
                      fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technologically feasible and economically
                      reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.g.(iii)    Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Both the 20% opacity and the no off-property transport emission limitation
                      guidelines shall apply to tailings piles and ponds. Abatement and control plans
                      submitted for tailings piles and ponds shall be evaluated for compliance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.g.(iv)     Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not necessarily limited to:

                                 III.D.2.g.(iv)(A) watering and/or chemical stabilization,

                                 III.D.2.g.(iv)(B) synthetic and/or revegetative covers,

                                 III.D.2.g.(iv)(C) windbreaks,




                                                                                                          18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                                III.D.2.g.(iv)(D) minimizing the area of disturbed tailings,

                                III.D.2.g.(iv)(E) restricting the speed of vehicles in and around the
                                         tailings operation, and/or,

                                III.D.2.g.(iv)(F) other equivalent methods or techniques approved by the
                                         division.

             III.D.2.h.         Demolition Activities

                      III.D.2.h.(i)      Applicability - Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.h.(ii)     General Requirements

                      Any owner or operator of any new demolition activities from which fugitive
                      particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technologically feasible and economically
                      reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.h.(iii)    Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Only the no off-property transport emission limitation guideline shall apply to
                      demolition activities. Abatement and control plans submitted for demolition
                      activities shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of Section III.D.
                      of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.h.(iv)     Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not limited to:

                                III.D.2.h.(iv)(A) wetting down, including pre-watering of work surface,

                                III.D.2.h.(iv)(B) removal of dirt and mud deposited on improved streets
                                         and roads,

                                III.D.2.h.(iv)(C) wetting down, washing, or covering haulage equipment
                                         when necessary to minimize fugitive dust emissions during
                                         loading and transit.

                      III.D.2.h.(v)     Any demolition or renovation activity that has materials insulated
                               or fireproofed with friable asbestos will also be subject to the provisions
                               of the Air Quality Control commission's Regulation Number 8, Part B.

             III.D.2.i. Blasting Activities

                      III.D.2.i.(i)      Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas




                                                                                                          19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                      III.D.2.i.(ii)      General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator of any new or existing blasting activities from which
                      fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technically feasible and economically reasonable in
                      order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the requirements of Section
                      III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.i.(iii)     Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Only the no off-property transport emission limitation guideline shall apply to
                      blasting activities. Abatement and control plans submitted for blasting activities
                      shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this
                      regulation.

                      III.D.2.i.(iv)      Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures or operational procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not limited to, the use of:

                                 III.D.2.i.(iv)(A)   the removal of overburden prior to blasting,

                                 III.D.2.i.(iv)(B) watering down the blasted area as soon as practicable
                                            after blasting,

                                 III.D.2.j.(iv)(C) other equivalent methods or techniques approved by the
                                            division.

             III.D.2.j. Sandblasting Operations

                      III.D.2.j.(i)       Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                      III.D.2.j.(ii)      General Requirement

                      Any owner or operator of any new or existing sandblasting activities from which
                      fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use all available
                      practical methods which are technologically feasible and economically
                      reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with the
                      requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                      III.D.2.j.(iii)     Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                      Only the 20% opacity emission limitation guideline shall apply to sandblasting
                      operations. Abatement and control plans submitted for sandblasting operations
                      shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of Section III.D. of this
                      regulation.

                      III.D.2.j.(iv)      Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                      Control measures and operating procedures to be employed may include, but are
                      not limited to the use of enclosures with necessary dust collecting equipment,
                      using wet sandblasting methods, and other methods or techniques approved by
                      the division.

             III.D.2.k.          Livestock Confinement Operations




                                                                                                             20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                        III.D.2.k.(i)     Applicability - Attainment and Non-attainment Areas

                        III.D.2.k.(ii)    General Requirement

                        Any owner or operator of any new or existing livestock confinement operations
                        from which fugitive particulate emissions will be emitted shall be required to use
                        all available practical methods which are technologically feasible and
                        economically reasonable in order to minimize such emissions in accordance with
                        the requirements of Section III.D. of this regulation.

                        III.D.2.k.(iii)   Applicable Emission Limitation Guideline

                        Only the no off-property transport guideline shall apply to livestock confinement
                        operations. Abatement and control plans submitted for livestock confinement
                        operations shall be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of Section
                        III.D. of this regulation.

                        III.D.2.k.(iv)    Control Measures and Operating Procedures

                        Control measures or operating procedures to be employed may include, but are
                        not limited to the use of sprinkler systems and/or other equivalent methods or
                        techniques as approved by the division.

IV.     Continuous Emission Monitoring Requirements for New or Existing Sources

IV.A.   Sources which are required to install, calibrate, certify and maintain continuous emission
        monitoring (CEM) systems for opacity, and/or sulfur dioxide and/or carbon monoxide (listed in
        Sections B, C, and D, of this Section IV and in Section VII.) shall have such equipment installed in
        a location which in accord with sound engineering practice will provide for accurate opacity and/or
        sulfur dioxide, and/or carbon monoxide emission readings. The averaging times for these
        monitors shall correspond to the averaging times for the appropriate emission standard.

IV.B.   Fossil Fuel-fired Steam Generators

        IV.B.1. A continuous emission monitoring system for the measurement of opacity shall be
                installed, calibrated, maintained and operated by the owner or operator of any steam
                generator of a total rated capacity of or greater than 250 million BTU per hour heat input
                except where:

                IV.B.1.a.         Gaseous fuel is the only fuel burned or,

                IV.B.1.b.        Oil or a mixture of gas and oil are the only fuels burned and the source is
                        able to comply with the applicable particulate matter and opacity regulation
                        without utilization of particulate matter collection equipment,

                IV.B.1.c.       The source demonstrates that a continuous monitoring system would not
                        provide accurate determinations of the opacity of emissions (e.g., condensed,
                        uncombined water vapor in the emissions would prevent accurate readings) and
                        an alternative method of determining opacity approved by the division is
                        employed.




                                                                                                         21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        IV.B.2. Either a continuous emission monitoring system for the measurement of sulfur dioxide
                shall be installed, calibrated, maintained and operated or a division approved sampling
                plan shall be developed and implemented for determining the amount of sulfur in the fuel
                in order to calculate sulfur oxide emissions on any fossil fuel fired steam generator of a
                total rated capacity of or greater than 250 million BTU per hour heat input.

        IV.B.3. If an owner or operator is required to install a continuous monitoring system for sulfur
                oxides, a continuous monitoring system for measuring either oxygen or carbon dioxide is
                also required.

IV.C.   Sulfuric Acid Plant

        IV.C.1. The owner or operator of each sulfuric acid plant of or greater than 300 tons per day
                production capacity (the production capacity being expressed as 100 percent acid) shall
                install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for the
                measurement of sulfur dioxide for each sulfuric acid producing unit within such plant.

IV.D.   Fluid Bed Catalytic Cracking Unit at Petroleum Refineries

        IV.D.1. The owner or operator of each catalyst regenerator for fluid bed catalytic cracking units of
                or greater than 20,000 barrels per day fresh feed capacity shall install, calibrate, maintain
                and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for the measurement of opacity.

        IV.D.2. The owner or operator of each fluid bed catalytic cracking unit of 5,000 barrels per day or
                greater fresh feed capacity, located in a carbon monoxide (CO) non-attainment area shall
                install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for the
                measurement of carbon monoxide.

        IV.D.3. Exemptions:

                IV.D.3.a.       The owner or operator of a fluid bed catalytic cracking unit described in
                        IV.D.2. may apply to the division for an exemption from continuous emission
                        monitoring requirements listed in subsection IV.D.2. In order for an exemption to
                        be granted, the following requirements must be met:

                        IV.D.3.a.(i)    The owner or operator of a source must conduct a flue gas
                                emission test for carbon monoxide concentration. The test protocol must
                                be approved at least 30 days in advance by the division and emissions
                                during the test must not exceed 250 ppm by volume on a one hour
                                average; and

                        IV.D.3.a.(ii)    Source owners or operators must establish a consistent
                                relationship between carbon monoxide flue gas concentration and
                                indicator parameter(s) such as flue gas oxygen content, or flue gas
                                temperature, through a division approved test program; and

                        IV.D.3.a.(iii)   Source owners or operators must maintain records of CO
                                indicator parameter(s), as described above, for a period of at least two
                                years which shall be made available for division review upon request.

IV.E.   Performance Specifications

The performance specifications used to determine the acceptability of monitoring equipment installed
pursuant to Section IV.D.2. shall conform to those referenced in Appendix B of Part 60, Title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations (Oct. 7, 2020), or other specifications approved by the division.




                                                                                                           22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


IV.F.   Calibration of Equipment

Owners or operators of all continuous monitoring systems subject to Section IV. of this regulation shall
check the zero and span drift of the system at least once per day and at such other times as designated
by the division, according to procedures approved by the division. The division may also make such
determinations in order to assure proper quality assurance.

IV.G.   Notification and Recordkeeping

The owner or operator of a facility required to install, maintain, and calibrate continuous monitoring
equipment shall submit to the division within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, a report
of excess emissions for all pollutants monitored for that quarter. This report shall consist of the following
information and/or other reporting requirements as specified by the division.

        IV.G.1. The magnitude of excess emissions computed in accordance with division guidelines,
                any conversion factor(s) used, and the date and time of commencement and completion
                of each time period of excess emissions.

        IV.G.2. The nature and cause of the excess emissions, if known.

        IV.G.3. The date and time identifying each period of equipment malfunction and the nature of the
                system repairs or adjustments, if any, made to correct the malfunction.

        IV.G.4. A schedule of the calibration and maintenance of the continuous monitoring system.

        IV.G.5. Compliance with the reporting requirements of this Section IV.G. shall not relieve the
                owner or operator of the reporting requirements of Section II.E. of the Common
                Provisions Regulation concerning upset conditions and breakdowns.

IV.H.   A file of all data collected relating to the preceding two- year period shall be maintained by the
        owner or operator of an affected source. The format in which the required information is
        submitted shall be determined by the division.

IV.I.   The owner or operator of a facility utilizing fuel sampling as an alternative to continuous emission
        monitoring shall report fuel analysis data as specified in the sampling plan to the division within
        30 days following the end of each calendar half in a format prescribed by the division. The
        purpose of such report shall be to disclose emissions that would exceed SO 2 emission standards.

V.      Emission Standards for Existing Iron and Steel Plant Operations

V.A.    Electric Arc Furnaces

        V.A.1. Visible emissions from the gas-cleaning device or from uncaptured emissions escaping
               the Electric Arc Furnace shop, shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) opacity at any time.
               The approved reference test method for visible emissions measurement on which these
               standards are based is EPA Method 9 (40 CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)).

        V.A.2. Emissions from the gas-cleaning device shall not exceed a mass emission rate of
               0.00520 gr/dscf of filterable particulates maximum two-hour average, as measured by
               EPA Methods 1–4 and the front half of Method 5 (40 CFR 60.275 (Aug. 25, 2023), and
               Appendix A, Part 60 (March 29, 2023), or by other credible method approved by the
               division. This particulate emissions standard does not include condensable emissions, or
               the back-half emissions of Method 5 (March 29, 2023).




                                                                                                             23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


V.B.    Sources of particulate emissions at iron and steel plants not subject to specific emission
        limitations set forth in Section V shall comply with applicable emission limitations set forth
        elsewhere in this regulation.

        V.B.1. Smoke Emissions and Opacity Requirements

        [Cross-reference: Section II, subsections A.1., A.2 and A.6.i and A.6.iii]

        V.B.2. Particulate Emission Requirements

        [Cross-reference: Section III, subsection A.1, A.2, C.1 and C.3]

V.C.    A statement of the basis and purpose for the revisions to this Section adopted March 11, 1982 is
        hereby incorporated by reference, and a copy of the statement is available from the Air Quality
        Control commission office.

VI.     Sulfur Dioxide Emission Regulations

VI.A.   Sources constructed or modified prior to August 11, 1977 shall be considered an existing source.
        All existing sources of sulfur dioxide emissions, except for sources listed in Section VII, shall
        comply with the following:

        VI.A.1. Averaging time - Unless otherwise specified in other sections of this regulation, the
                averaging time for all sulfur dioxide emissions standards shall be a three-hour rolling
                average.

        VI.A.2. If the sum of sulfur dioxide emission rates for all sources located on a contiguous site is
                less than three tons per day potential uncontrolled SO 2 emissions, and if all federal and
                state ambient air quality standards are met no process based SO 2 emission standard
                shall apply.

        VI.A.3. Existing sources of sulfur dioxide shall not emit sulfur dioxide in excess of the following
                process-specific limitations. (Heat input rates shall be the manufacturer's guaranteed
                maximum heat input rates).

                VI.A.3.a.        Coal-fired operations including coal-fired steam generation:

                                 (These standards are also applicable to the use of coal-based by-product
                                 fuels.)

                         VI.A.3.a.(i)     Units with a heat input from coal or coal-based by-product fuels
                                 of less than 300 million BTU per hour:

                                 1.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heat input.

                         VI.A.3.a.(ii)   Units with a heat input from coal or coal-based by-product fuels
                                 equal to or greater than 300 million BTU per hour:

                                 1.2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heat input.

                VI.A.3.b.        Oil-fired Operations Including Oil-Fired Steam Generation

                         VI.A.3.b.(i)     Units with a heat input from oil of less than 300 million BTU per
                                 hour:




                                                                                                              24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                                 1.5 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heating input.

                         VI.A.3.b.(ii)    Units with a heat input from oil equal to or greater than 300
                                 million BTU per hour:

                                 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heating input.

             VI.A.3.c.           Combustion Turbines

                         VI.A.3.c.(i)   Combustion Turbines with a heat input of less than 300 million
                                 BTU per hour:

                                 1.2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heating input.

                         VI.A.3.c.(ii)    Combustion Turbines with a heat input equal to or greater than
                                 300 million BTU per hour:

                                 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heating input.

             VI.A.3.d.           Natural Gas Desulfurization

                                 Desulfurization Plants emitting more than five tons of sulfur dioxide per
                                 day:

                                 2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per 1,000 cubic feet of (actual) delivered gas.

             VI.A.3.e.           Petroleum Refining

             0.7 pounds sulfur dioxide for the sum of all SO2 emissions from a given Refinery, per
             barrel of oil processed, per day. This emission limit shall be calculated over each 24-hour
             period that commences at midnight. If the refinery does not operate for the entire 24-hour
             period, the actual hours of operation shall be used as the averaging time. At no time shall
             the averaging time be greater than 24 hours. Refineries in operation on or before August
             1, 1995, which are covered by this regulation, shall submit a plan for division approval no
             later than February 1, 1996. Sources constructed after August 1, 1995, shall submit a
             plan for division approval along with construction permit applications. The plan shall
             define how compliance with this limitation will be demonstrated. This plan shall address
             both how the SO2 value is calculated, i.e. mass balance, monitors, and how the barrels of
             oil processed value is derived, taking into account intermediate storage. The division
             shall not limit the determination of barrels processed per day to a 24-hour period.

             The owner or operator of the affected source shall maintain all data used to show
             compliance with this emission standard for a period of two years for sources that are not
             subject to the operating permit program, and five years for sources that are subject to the
             operating permit program. This data shall be available for inspection by the division upon
             request.

             VI.A.3.f.           Cement Manufacture

             Seven pounds of sulfur dioxide per ton of material (including fuel) processed. This
             emission limit shall be calculated over each 24-hour period that commences at midnight.
             If the source does not operate for the entire 24-hour period, the actual hours of operation
             shall be used as the averaging time. At no time shall the averaging time be greater than
             24 hours.




                                                                                                             25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                The owner or operator of the affected source shall maintain all data used to show
                compliance with this emission standard for a period of two years for sources not subject
                to the operating permit program and five years for sources subject to the operating permit
                program. This data shall be available for inspection by the division upon request.

                VI.A.3.g.        Sources Not Specifically Listed Above

                Application of all available practical methods of control, which are technologically feasible
                and economically reasonable. This is to be determined by the division.

        VI.A.4. Recordkeeping and Reporting - All sources that have record keeping and reporting
                requirements shall comply with Sections IV.G. and IV.I. of this regulation.

        VI.A.5. Data Retention - All sources that have recordkeeping and reporting requirements shall
                retain emission data for the preceding two-year period as referenced in Section IV.H. of
                this regulation or for a longer period if required under other applicable regulations.

VI.B.   All new sources of sulfur dioxide emissions shall comply with emission limitations as specifically
        provided by this subsection B.

        VI.B.1. For purposes of this Section VI.B. a new source is defined as a newly constructed or
                modified source of sulfur dioxide emissions that has not been issued an Emission Permit
                (in accord with Regulation Number 3 of this commission) prior to the August 11, 1977,
                effective date of this amended regulation.

        VI.B.2. The averaging time for all new source emissions standards for sulfur dioxide shall be
                three hours, and any three-hour rolling average of emission rates which exceeds these
                standards is a violation of this regulation.

        VI.B.3. The term “modification” is as defined in the Common Provisions Regulation, Section I.G.
                except that any source of sulfur dioxide subject to an emission standard which measures
                the sum of all sulfur dioxide emissions from a given facility shall not be considered
                “modified” for the purposes of this regulation unless the alteration may cause an increase
                in the sum of all sulfur dioxide emissions from such facility.

        VI.B.4. New sources of sulfur dioxide shall not emit or cause to be emitted sulfur dioxide in
                excess of the following process-specific limitations (Heat input rates shall be the
                manufacturer's guaranteed maximum heat input rates.)

                VI.B.4.a.        All Coal-Fired Operations, Including Coal-Fired Steam Generators

                        VI.B.4.a.(i)     Units converted from other fuels to coal:

                                 1.2 lbs. SO2/million BTU of coal heat input.

                        VI.B.4.a.(ii)    Units with a coal heat input of less than 250 million BTU per
                                hour:

                                 1.2 lbs. SO2/million BTU coal heat input.

                        VI.B.4.a.(iii)   Units with a coal heat input of 250 million BTU per hour or
                                greater:

                                 0.4 lbs. SO2/million BTU coal heat input.




                                                                                                          26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             VI.B.4.b.            All Oil-fired Operations, Including Oil-Fired Steam Generation.

                         VI.B.4.b.(i)     Units with an oil heat input of less than 250 million BTU per hour:

                                  0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of oil heat input.

                         VI.B.4.b.(ii)    Units with an oil heat input of 250 million BTU per hour or
                                 greater:

                                  0.3 lbs. SO2/million BTU of oil heat input.

             VI.B.4.c.            Combustion Turbines

                         VI.B.4.c.(i)   Combustion Turbines with a heat input of less than 250 million
                                 BTU per hour:

                                  0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU of heat input.

                         VI.B.4.c.(ii)   Combustion Turbines with heat input of 250 million BTU per hour
                                 or greater:

                                  0.35 lbs. SO2/million BTU of heat input.

             IV.B.4.d.            Natural Gas Desulfurization

             (As employed in this section, the term “delivered” means (a quantity of gas) delivered to
             the transmission pipeline).

                         VI.B.4.d.(i)     Desulfurization Plants emitting less than three tons per day of
                                 SO2:

                                  2.0 lbs. SO2/1000 cubic feet of (actual) delivered natural gas.

                         VI.B.4.d.(ii)    Sources emitting three or more tons per day of SO2:

                                  0.8 lbs. SO2/1000 cubic feet of (actual) delivered natural gas.

             VI.B.4.e.            Petroleum Refining

             0.3 lbs. sulfur dioxide, for the sum of all SO2 emissions from a given refinery per barrel of
             oil processed. (Averaged over a daily 24-hour period, I.E. Midnight through 23:59.)

             VI.B.4.f.            Production of Oil from Shale

             Production of oil from shale shall be subject to the emission limitations provided in
             Colorado Air Quality Control commission Regulation Number 6, Subpart B (Non-federal
             New Source Performance Standards (NSPS), Section IV.C.3.)

             VI.B.4.g.            Refining of Oil Produced from Shale

                         VI.B.4.g.(i)   Refineries processing less than 1,000 barrels per day: No
                                 process emission standard.

                         VI.B.4.g.(ii)    Refineries processing 1,000 or more barrels per day:




                                                                                                             27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                                 0.3 lbs. sulfur dioxide, for the sum of all Sulfur dioxide emissions from a
                                 given refinery, per barrel of oil processed.

                VI.B.4.h.        Sulfuric Acid Production

                4.0 lbs. sulfur dioxide/ton of acid produced and 0.15 lbs. H2SO4 mist/ton of acid
                produced.

        VI.B.5. Any new source of sulfur dioxide not specifically regulated above shall:

                VI.B.5.a.        Limit emissions to not more than two (2) tons per day of sulfur dioxide, or

                VI.B.5.b.        Utilize best available control technology as determined by the division
                        subject to review by the commission.

        VI.B.6. Recordkeeping and Reporting - All sources that have recordkeeping and reporting
                requirements shall comply with Sections IV.G. and IV.I., of this regulation.

        VI.B.7. Data Retention - All sources that have recordkeeping and reporting requirements shall
                retain emission data for the preceding two-year period as referenced in Section IV.H. of
                this regulation or for a longer period if required under other applicable regulations.

        VI.B.8. A written statement of the basis and purpose of this new source emission control
                regulation, which includes a detailed analytical evaluation of the scientific and technical
                rationale justifying this regulation has been prepared and adopted by the commission on
                August 11, 1977. This written statement entitled, “Rationale for the Promulgation of a
                New Source Emission Control Regulation and Ambient Air Quality Standards for Sulfur
                Dioxide”, is hereby incorporated in this regulation by reference, in accord with C.R.S.
                1973, 24-4-103 as amended.

VI.C.   Fuel Sampling

The division must approve all fuel sampling plans. The appropriate ASTM test methods or other
equivalent method approved by the division shall be used for all fuel sampling plans.

VI.D.   Performance Tests

Prior to granting of a final approval permit or amending a permit, when an emission source or control
equipment is altered, or at any time when there is reason to believe that emission standards are being
violated, the division may require the owner or operator of any facility subject to the emission standards
under Section VI to conduct performance tests, as measured by EPA Methods 1-4 Methods 6, 6a, 6b, 6c
and Method 8 (40 CFR 60.275 (Aug. 25, 2023), Appendix A, Part 60 (March 29, 2023), or any other
method which the division finds appropriate to determine compliance with this subsection of this
regulation.

        VI.D.1. The owner or operator of an existing source of sulfur dioxide shall, upon request of the
                division, conduct performance test(s) and furnish the division a written report of the
                results of such performance test(s) to determine compliance with this regulation.

        VI.D.2. Performance test(s) shall be conducted and data reduced and recorded in accordance
                with the test methods and procedures specified above unless the division:

                VI.D.2.a.        Approves the use of an alternative method the results of which the
                        division has determined to be adequate for indicating whether a specific source is
                        in compliance, or




                                                                                                           28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                 VI.D.2.b.        Waives the requirement for performance test(s) because the owner or
                         operator of a source has demonstrated by other means to the division's
                         satisfaction that the affected facility is in compliance with the standard. Nothing in
                         this paragraph C. shall be construed to abrogate the commission's or division's
                         authority to require testing under Article 7 of Title 25, Colorado Revised Statute
                         (2023), and regulations of the commission promulgated there under.

         VI.D.3. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall provide the division thirty days prior
                 notice of the performance test to afford the division the opportunity to have an observer
                 present.

VI.E.    Related Compounds Containing Sulfur in Oxidized States:

         VI.E.1. For the purposes of this regulation, all oxidized forms of sulfur (including, but not
                 restricted to sulfur trioxide (SO3), trionyl chloride (SOCl2), and sulfuric acid mist (H2SO4))
                 shall be considered as sulfur dioxide.

         VI.E.2. Quantities of such oxidized sulfur compounds shall be converted on a molar basis to an
                 equivalent quantity of sulfur dioxide. The total of all such quantities, (expressed in parts
                 per million by volume sulfur-dioxide-equivalents of other oxidized forms) shall be
                 interpreted as “parts per million by volume sulfur dioxide” as used in Section B. above.

VI.F.    Alternative Compliance Procedures

         VI.F.1. Any person may apply to the division Director for approval of an alternative:

                 VI.F.1.a.        Test method,

                 VI.F.1.b.        Method of control,

                 VI.F.1.c.        Compliance period,

                 VI.F.1.d.        Emission limit, or

                 VI.F.1.e.        Monitoring schedule.

         VI.F.2. The application shall include a demonstration that the proposed alternative produces:

                 VI.F.1.a.       An equal or greater air quality benefit than that required in this
                         subsection VI. or

                 VI.F.2.b.        The alternative test method is equivalent to that required by these
                         regulations.

         VI.F.3. The division Director shall obtain concurrence from EPA prior to approving an alternative.

VII.     Emission Regulations for Certain Electric Generating Stations Owned and Operated by the
         Public Service Company of Colorado

VII.A.   The electric generating stations owned and operated by the Public Service Company of Colorado
         listed below shall not emit or cause to be emitted nitrogen oxides (NOx) or sulfur dioxide (SO2) in
         excess of the following limits. The emission rates for NOx and SO2 are measured in terms of
         pounds of pollutant per million British Thermal Units of fuel fired in the unit (lb/mmBTU).

         VII.A.1. Cherokee Electric Generating Station, 6198 North Franklin Street, Denver, CO




                                                                                                              29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             VII.A.1.a.      NOx and SO2 limits:



                                       NOx (lb/mmBTU)          SO2 (lb/mmBTU)

                Unit 1                 -                       1.1

                Unit 2                 -                       1.1

                Unit 3                 0.60                    1.1

                Unit 4                 0.45                    1.1

             The NOx limit will be calculated based on a 30-day rolling average, and is effective
             November 1, 1994.

             The SO2 limit will be calculated as a three-hour rolling average, and is effective
             November 1, 1994.

             Public Service Company of Colorado shall install, certify and operate continuous
             emission monitoring equipment in accordance with 40 CFR Part 60.13 (Oct. 6, 1975), for
             measuring opacity, SO2, NOx, and either O2 or CO2 on Units 1, 2, 3 and 4.

             VII.A.b. Effective January 1, 2005, the NOx limit for Unit 1 shall be 0.60 lb/mm BTU,
                      provided EPA approves the designation of the Denver area as a PM-10
                      attainment/maintenance area. Such limit shall be calculated based on a 30-day
                      rolling average.

             VII.A.c. Upon EPA approval of the designation of the Denver area as a PM-10
                      attainment/maintenance area, the SO2 emission rate from units 1 and 4 shall not
                      exceed 0.88 lb/mm BTU, calculated separately for each unit, based on a 30-day
                      rolling average. Such emission limit shall apply seasonally from November 1
                      through March 1. The additional SO2 limit set out in this subsection VII.A.1.c.
                      shall not apply unless EPA repeals the incorporation of SO 2 permit limits into the
                      SIP at 40 CFR 52.354(c)(82)(i)(E) (Sept. 18, 2015).

      VII.A.2. Arapahoe Electric Generating Station, 2601 South Platte River Drive, Denver, CO

             VII.A.2.a.      Nox and SO2 limits:



                                              NOx (lb/mmBTU)               SO2 (lb/mmBTU)

               Unit 1                         -                            1.1

               Unit 2                         -                            1.1

               Unit 3                         -                            1.1

               Unit 4                         0.60                         1.1 +20% annual
                                                                           tonnage reduction




                                                                                                       30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                   - The NOx limit will be calculated based on a 30-day rolling average, and is effective
                   November 1, 1994.

                   - The SO2 limit will be calculated as a three-hour rolling average, and is effective January
                   1, 1995.

                   - The 20% SO2 limit from Unit 4 shall be calculated on a calendar year, total annual
                   tonnage basis. – Public Service Company of Colorado shall install, certify and operate
                   continuous emission monitoring equipment in accordance with 40 CFR Part 60.13 (Oct.
                   6, 1975), for measuring opacity, SO2, NOx, and either O2 or CO2 on Units 1, 2, 3 and 4.

                   VII.A.2.b.       Upon EPA approval of the designation of the Denver area as a PM-10
                            attainment/maintenance area, the SO2 emission rate from unit 4 shall not exceed
                            0.88 lb/mm BTU, calculated on a 30-day rolling average. Such emission limit
                            shall apply seasonally from November 1 through March 1.

                   VII.A.2.c.      Retirement of units 1 and 2

                           VII.A.2.c.(i)    Units 1 and 2 shall be permanently retired by January 1, 2003.
                                    This section VII.A.2.c. shall become effective upon EPA approval of the
                                    designation of the Denver area as a PM-10 attainment/maintenance
                                    area.

                           VII.A.2.(ii)     This section VII.A.2.c shall not be construed to prevent the
                                    construction or operation of a new source on the site of such units,
                                    provided any such new source complies with all laws and regulations
                                    applicable to new sources.

        VII.A.3. Valmont Electric Generating Station, 1800 North 63rd Street, Boulder, CO



                                     NOx (lb/mmBTU)                    SO2 (lb/mmBTU)

          Unit 5                     0.45                              1.1

        - The NOx limit will be calculated based on a 30-day rolling average, and is effective November 1,
        1994.

        - The SO2 limit will be calculated as a three-hour rolling average, and is effective November 1,
        1994.

        - Public Service Company of Colorado shall install, certify and operate continuous emission
        monitoring equipment in accordance with 40 CFR Part 60.13 (Oct. 6, 1975), for measuring
        opacity, SO2, NOx, and either O2 or CO2 on Unit 5.

VIII.   Restrictions on the Use of Oil as a Backup Fuel

VIII.A. Applicability

The provisions of this section are applicable to all points at the following stationary sources in the Denver
PM10 Attainment/Maintenance area that use oil as a backup fuel for natural gas, which is the primary
process fuel:

        VIII.A.1. Public Service Company of Colorado, Zuni Electric Generating Station;




                                                                                                             31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        VIII.A.2. Public Service Company of Colorado, Valmont Electric Generating Station;

        VIII.A.3. Public Service Company of Colorado, Delgany Steam Generating Station;

        VIII.A.4. University of Colorado Health Science Center (Fitzsimmons); and

        VIII.A.5. Trigen-Colorado Energy, Golden, CO.

VIII.B. Requirements

Beginning November 1, 1993, natural gas shall be the only fuel used from November 1 to March 1 of
each year, except under the following circumstances:

        VIII.B.1.            The supplier or transporter of natural gas imposes a curtailment or an interruption
                    of service;

        VIII.B.2.            For necessary testing of equipment used to operate the unit on oil, testing of fuel
                    and training of personnel; or

        VIII.B.3.            When an equipment malfunction at the facility makes it impossible or unsafe for
                    the unit to operate on natural gas.

VIII.C. Recordkeeping

Each stationary source subject to these provisions shall maintain records for a period of two years, which
include the following information:

        VIII.C.1.           dates and number of hour’s fuel oil are burned;

        VIII.C.2.           percent sulfur analysis of the fuel oil that is burned;

        VIII.C.3.           number of gallons burned each day; and

        VIII.C.4.           reason(s) for the use of the fuel oil.

VIII.D. Reporting

Beginning April 1, 1994 and by April 1 of each year thereafter, each stationary source subject to these
provisions shall submit to the division a report containing the information listed in Section VIII.C.

VIII.E. Alternate Recordkeeping and Reporting

Where the information required under subsections C and D above is otherwise made available to the
division, for example in Air Pollution Emission Notice (APEN) reports submitted by the source or pursuant
to operating permit requirements or analogous information is maintained by the source in a credible form
approved by the division, the requirements of subsections C and D of this Section VIII are satisfied.




                                                                                                              32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


IX.            Emission Regulations Concerning Areas which are Nonattainment or
        Attainment/Maintenance for Carbon Monoxide – Refinery Fluid Bed Catalytic Cracking
        Units

No later than nine months after the effective date of this revision (January 30, 1987) no source which has
emitted 1,000 or more tons of carbon monoxide during any 12 month period, nor any source which can
reasonably be expected to emit 1,000 or more tons of carbon monoxide during any future 12-month
period, shall emit any gas in which carbon monoxide constitutes 0.050% (500 ppm) or more of the volume
of the gas, based on a one hour average.

X.               Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose

Following are compilations of previously adopted versions to the Statement of Basis, Specific
Statutory Authority, and Purpose

Sections I. through IV. and minor revisions to Section VI. (Adopted April 8, 1982)

Regulation Number 1 sets forth emission limitations, equipment requirements, and work practices
(abatement and control measures) intended to control the emissions of particulates, smokes and sulfur
oxides from new and existing stationary sources. Control measures specified in this regulation are
designed to limit emissions into the atmosphere and thereby minimize the ambient concentrations of
particulates and sulfur oxides.

The regulation is primarily aimed at control of particulates of 10-micron size and smaller (i.e. “inhalable”
particles). However, in recognition of the fact that larger particles - especially which may settle on roads,
be ground into smaller sizes and later reintroduced into the atmosphere – larger size particles have also
been controlled where control seemed appropriate.

Section II.A.1 – Smoke and Opacity.

The previous opacity regulations have made any exceedence of 20% opacity a violation. To conform to
the method of opacity measurement used by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the commission
has switched to the 6-minute averaging method of measuring opacity contained in EPA Method 9 (40
CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)). The testimony presented by division representatives indicated
investigators in the field have in effect been averaging opacity. The commission encourages the division
to continue its practice of allowing non-agency personnel to attend smoke school and receive certification.

Section II.A.2 – Intermittent Sources.

The switch in methods of measuring opacity (see comments on Section II.A.1 above) made it necessary
to devise a modified method to measure opacity from those sources, which do not operate continuously
for at least six minutes. EPA Method 9 (40 CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)) was amended to
accommodate this situation.




                                                                                                            33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section II.A.3 – Pilot Plants and Experimental Operations.

The previous regulation excerpted pilot plants and experimental operations from its 20% opacity standard
to the extent of allowing emissions of up to 40% opacity for no more than 3 minutes in any 60-minute
period (see previous Section II.A.2.b.). Because of the switch in methods of measuring opacity (i.e., now
averaging for six minutes) this exception has been changed to now allow up to 30% opacity (as measured
by EPA Method 9 (40 CFR, Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)) for no more than 6 minutes in any 60-
minute period. This revised exception represents an equivalent relaxation. This relaxed opacity limitation
applied only for 180 operating days, after which the 20% opacity limitation of Sections II.A.1 and 2 again
applied. The regulation, however, provides that the division may extend the maximum 180 -day period on
good cause shown. For clarification, the phase “operating day” has now been defined and the exception
made applicable to “process units” of a pilot plant or experimental operation to more accurately reflect the
commission's intent.

Section II.A.4 – Fire Building, Cleaning of Fire Boxes, Soot Blowing, Start-Up, Process Malfunction or
Adjustments of Control Equipment.

On the same rationale that the limited exception for pilot plants was amended (see comments on II.A.3.
above), the limited exceptions for these sources has also been changed from up to three minutes in a 60-
minute period at no more than 40% opacity to up to six minutes at 30% opacity (averaged).

Section II.A.5 – Smokeless Flares.

Smokeless flares were not previously exempted in any way from the 20% opacity standard. The
commission has now allowed a limited exception of up to six minutes in a 60-minute period at 30%
opacity (averaged) to reduce the burden of upset reporting on operations of smokeless flares.

Section II.A.6. – Alfalfa Dehydrating Plants.

This section remains the same as the previous Regulation Number 1 and requires compliance with 20%
opacity by January 1, 1985.

Section II.A.7 – Wigwam Burners.

House Bill 1366 (1977) added § 25-7-108(3)(e) to the Air Pollution Control Act of 1970. It provided: “that
the provisions of any commission Regulation concerning Wigwam Burners shall not apply prior to July 1,
1982, to any such burner located within seventy-five air miles of the border of any state bordering on
Colorado if the regulations concerning wigwam wood waste burners of the bordering state are less
stringent that those of the commission. Said exemption shall not apply to wigwam wood waste burners
located within a twenty mile radius of any city, town, or municipality having a population of fifty thousand
persons as determined by the 1970 Federal Census.” House Bill 1109 (1979) repealed the Air Pollution
Control Act of 1970 including § 25-7-108(3)(e). The Colorado Air Quality Control Act established by
House Bill 1109 did not contain the above quoted exemption in the new § 25-7-109(3)(e) which gave the
authority to adopt emission regulations for Wigwam wood waste burners to the commission. The
commission has therefore promulgated emission standards for new and existing wigwam burners in this
Regulation Number 1. New wigwam burners are subject to 20% opacity at all times. Effective January 1,
1983, existing wigwam burners are subject to a 40% opacity ceiling (i.e., no emissions in excess of 40%
are allowed) except for 1 hour of start-up (ignition of a new fire after a period of non-operation).
Additionally, existing wigwam burners must submit a plan to control their emission by the same date. As
was provided for in HB 1090 and HB 1109 (1979), the regulation recognizes exemption from state
regulation for certain wigwam wood waste burners subject to county regulation.




                                                                                                           34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section II.A.8. – Exemptions.

As with the previous regulation, certain sources have been exempted from the opacity limitations in
Sections II.A.1. and II.A.2. In some instances the exemptions are based on a determination that control of
opacity is not economically reasonable or technically feasible (e.g., “fugitive dust” and noncommercial
fireplaces burning clean wood); in others because the sources are subject to more appropriate emission
limitations elsewhere in the regulation (e.g., iron and steel plants and “fugitive particulate emissions”) the
commission realizes that woodburning in fireplaces, fireplace inserts and stoves may cause severe air
pollution problems and has appointed a committee to evaluate the problems and plans, if necessary, to
recommend changes to the regulation regarding smoke sources when adequate data is developed.

Definitions of “Fugitive Dust” and “Fugitive Particulate Emissions.”

In connection with its decisions on exemptions from Section II.A.1. and II.A.2. and for the purposes of
Regulation Number 1 only, the commission has developed new definitions for “fugitive dust” (which is not
subject to regulation) and “fugitive particulate emissions” (subject to the provisions of Section III.D.) to
help distinguish between fugitive particulate pollution subjected to and exempted from regulation.

Section II.B. – Diesel Powered Locomotives.

This section has provisions for Diesel Powered Locomotives only and they are the same as the previous
Regulation Number 1. Provisions for other motor vehicles have been deleted primarily because of the
amendment of C.R.S. 1973, Section 18-13-110 in 1979. The previous restrictions on emissions from off-
highway heavy duty diesel-powered vehicles was not carried forward to the current regulation because it
was felt no significant reduction in emissions could be achieved in light of the exemption for such vehicles
for nonconsecutive periods of 15 seconds (see former Section I.B.3.c-2).

Section II.C. – Open Burning.

This section was reorganized by the commission and contains few substantive changes. The exemption
for burning in municipalities with less than 3,500 population has been replaced with an exemption created
by HB1090 (1979) for the unincorporated areas of counties with less than 25,000 population where the
Board of County commissioners has adopted regulations to control open burning. As was provided for in
HB 1090 (1978), the regulation recognizes a limited exemption from state regulation for certain burning
subject to county regulation.

Section III.A. – Fuel Burning Equipment.

This section has been reorganized and contains the same provisions as the previous Regulation Number
1 except that the performance test method has been changed from the American Society of Mechanical
Engineer's Power Test Codes-PTC-27 dated 1957 entitled “Determining Dust Concentrations in A Gas
Stream” to EPA Methods 1-4 and the front half of EPA Method 5 (40 C.F.R. 60.275, Appendix A, part 60).
The change in test methods was made because of division testimony that the latter method is the more
widely used and recognized test procedure. Sources subject to Section V (iron and steel plants) of this
Regulation Number 1 are exempt from this section.

Section III.B. – Incinerators.

This section was changed only with respect to the performance test method. The new methods to be
used are EPA Methods 1-4 and the front half of EPA Method 5 (C.F.R. 60.275, Appendix A, Part 60). The
change in test methods was made because of division testimony that the latter method is the more widely
used and recognized test procedure.




                                                                                                            35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section III.C. – Manufacturing Processes.

This section is a reorganization of the previous Regulation Number 1 and also contains provisions for
existing alfalfa dehydration plants (also found in Air Quality Control commission Regulation Number 5).
Specific exemptions for Section V and for fugitive particulate emissions have been included in this
section.

Section III.D.1 – (Fugitive Particulate Emissions) General Requirements.

In its 1981 opinion in CF&I Steel Corporation v. Colorado Air Pollution Control commission (Case Number
77-804), the Colorado Court of Appeals expressed reservations about appropriateness of applying an
opacity test to non-point sources, stating it saw “a significant number or problems” attributable to the fact
the test was developed for application to stack or point sources. Although the court's reservations were
expressed in dicta and the commission has found that the opacity test can be applied to area sources
(and the State Supreme Court has agreed to review the Court of Appeals decision), the commission
nonetheless realizes that opacity readings may be made on point sources more readily than on certain
“area sources”. Accordingly, the new regulation has shifted the use of opacity (and off property transport)
observations from an enforceable standard for area sources to a guideline in determining when the
adequacy of applied control methods should be reviewed.

The “general requirements” provisions of Section III.D. explain when control plans (or revisions to existing
control plans) must be submitted and set forth the criteria for approvability of such plans. Under this new
approach, enforcement action under C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-115 will be taken only when an owner or operator
(a) fails to comply with the approved emission control plan for its source, (b) the source fails to submit a
plan within the time prescribed for submittal, or (c) continues to operate after a control plan (or portion
thereof) has been disapproved. A source will not, however, be deemed in violation if operation of such
source is discontinued so as to permanently eliminate the cause of fugitive particulate emissions there
from. Pursuant to C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-114(f) and 25-7-115(5), if a new source is denied a permit for failure
to provide an adequate control plan or an existing source cited for operation in violation of the regulation,
the owner/operator is afforded the opportunity to contest the division's action before the Air Quality
Hearings Board.

The lists of control and abatement measures contained in the regulation represent measures that are
generally considered to be available, practical, economically reasonable and technically feasible. This
determination is based on several factors, including the division's observation that the same measures
contained in the previous version of the regulation generally were both effective in controlling emissions
of particulates and sulfur oxides and affordable. With few exceptions, (e.g., road carpeting), no new
measures have been added to the list of suggested control and abatement measures beyond those which
were listed in Section 2.D.9. of the previous Regulation Number 1.

To the extent cost data could be obtained from affected sources 1, or by the commission, or its staff, a
cost-benefit analysis was done for controls of fugitive particulate emissions on the basis of dollar cost of
control per ton of emissions reduced. The commission also considered, but did not quantify in dollars,
other benefits to public health and welfare from controlling fugitive particulates such as aesthetics (e.g.,
elimination of visible plumes which obstruct views), elimination of “nuisance” conditions which frequently
result in citizen complaints (e.g., dust from feedlots, construction activities and roadways), and possible
adverse effects on certain industries – such as ski and tourist industries which benefit from clean air. The
regulation requires employment of “all available practical methods that are technologically feasible and
economically reasonable.” This requirement does not necessarily mean a source must employ all control
measures and practices listed. For example, it obviously would not be economically reasonable to employ
paving, road carpeting, dust suppressants and watering to control fugitive particulate emissions from
unpaved roadways. Although the commission has determined that the control and abatement measures
listed in the regulation are generally economically reasonable for the types of sources to which they
apply, it is recognized that in particular instances some of the listed measures are ineffective, redundant
or otherwise inappropriate. On the other hand, there may be control measures or practices not listed in
the regulation for a type of source which are available, practical, technologically feasible and




                                                                                                           36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


By Order of August 7, 1981, the commission ordered its staff and the parties to the rulemaking
proceeding to conduct an “informal discovery process” for the purpose, among others, of securing
information on the cost to owners and operators of fugitive particulate emission sources of implementing
the various control and abatement measures specified in the regulation. Discovery was to proceed in two
phases of written inquiries and responses. The results of the process were disappointing. Some of the
parties fully cooperated and submitted requested cost data including adequate information to substantiate
the claimed costs. Despite receipt of written inquiries from commission staff, requests made to parties
during the hearings for additional information, and the commission's follow-up letters to parties (dated
November 6 and December 10, 1981) again requesting submittal of requested data; several parties failed
to respond, others submitted unsubstantiated cost data, and others only partially responded. The
commission therefore, proceeded on the assumption that control and abatement measures that have
been successfully employed in the past, continue to represent available, practical, economically
reasonable and technologically feasible methods of control unless substantive evidence to the contrary
was received.

The regulation therefore requires submission and evaluation of emission control plans on a source-by-
source basis to allow the division to evaluate the plan for each source in light of its particular
circumstances. At such time, the owner or operator and the division may determine that some of the listed
measures are not appropriate as applied to a particular source or that others not listed are. This approach
of a separate control plan for each source allows maximum flexibility in developing an enforceable control
plan which represents an appropriate approach to control - in some instances more, in other instances
less stringent than the listed controls. As control technology advances and other relevant circumstances
change, it is expected that control methods meeting the requirements of Section III.D. will also change
and that control plans previously approvable may have to be amended.

Sections III.D.1.c. and d. (Amended October 28, 1982)

Regulation Number 1, sections III.D.1.c. and d. were amended in response to the Attorney General's rule
opinion of April 19, 1982 (disapproving, in part, section III.D. of Regulation Number 1 as adopted on April
8, 1982) and the objections of the Air Pollution Control division of the Colorado Department of Health that
the regulation did not allow it to require fugitive particulate emission control plans in all appropriate
situations.

Evidence presented by the division at the hearing demonstrated that in many instances the emission
limitation guidelines (“triggers”) could be met by use of emission controls significantly less stringent than
“all available practical methods of control that are technologically feasible and economically reasonable”
(hereafter “all practical controls”). The attorney general's primary concern was that virtually identical
sources could therefore be subjected to these differing “standards” — i.e., one required to apply “all
practical controls”; the other only having to avoid exceeding a less stringent trigger with the division being
unable to require a control plan.

The division also testified that, in some instances, the 20% opacity and no-off-property-transport
guidelines would be inadequate because use of those triggers to require submission of a control plan
required an observation be made at the time the particulates were being emitted and also that the
observations be made under specific circumstances. The division would therefore be unable to require a
control plan, even though one may be appropriate, if an inspector did not actually observe the
exceedence of the guideline or if all requirements for making the observation were not present (e.g., the
winds exceeded 30 mph).

First of all the regulation does not necessarily require that a division inspector personally observes
emissions exceeding one of the triggers. The division may require a control plan provided there is
adequate, reliable evidence that a trigger has been exceeded.




                                                                                                            37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The revisions to the regulation further address the problems the division has raised. The nuisance trigger
(which was previously applicable only to unpaved roads and haul roads) has been made applicable to all
regulated sources. This will allow the division to require a control plan from a source creating a nuisance
even when an inspector is unable to use the 20% opacity or no off-property transport guideline (e.g.,
because of high winds).

The language adopted is literally less comprehensive than that proposed in the rulemaking notice. The
revised regulation, however, (a) at a minimum addresses those sources of fugitive particulate emissions
where the need for specific control plans is clearest and (b) provides more concrete (less vague)
guidance to persons subject to the regulation of what level of control is required absent a specific control
plan. The commission expects that this will facilitate voluntary compliance by sources without plans.

Although theoretically situations could still arise whereby similar sources are subjected to different
standards, it is the determination of the commission that in practice, as revised, the regulation with its now
broader nuisance trigger will subject virtually all significant sources of fugitive particulate emissions to the
requirement of applying “all practical controls”. In the event the regulation fails to achieve this intended
objective, the regulation will be viewed as a “first step” towards its achievement and further revisions will
be made.

Nothing in the regulation is intended as, nor should it be construed as, prohibiting the division from
conducting inspections as required by C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-115 — whether on an annual or other periodic
basis, in response to complaints, or otherwise.

Section III.D.2.a. – Roadways.

This section provides a list of appropriate control measures for controlling dust from unpaved roadways.
The commission initially had to determine which unpaved roadways warranted control based on the
amount of fugitive particulate emissions resulting from their use. The amount of 25 tons per year (TPY)
per mile was chosen as an appropriate figure based on the fact that 25 TPY is the figure in commission
Regulation Number 3 deemed “significant” for the purpose of triggering the special non-attainment area
permit requirements (e.g., offsets, LAER) for major modifications. Regulation Number 3, Section
IV.D.2.b.(v). (Emissions of 25 TPY or more is also one of the triggering factors that would require a new
emission permit application be subjected to public comment. Regulation Number 3, Section IV.C.1.)
Using 25 TPY (per mile) as the point at which an unpaved road should be required to control emissions, it
was calculated using representative figures for the other factors that unpaved roads with traffic counts of
150 vehicles in non-attainment areas and 200 vehicles in attainment areas would cause emissions
requiring control.

The commission included the traffic count of 150 vehicles per day (averaged over any consecutive 3-day
period) for unpaved roadways in non-attainment areas as a result of the calculated emissions from an
average weight passenger car (2800 lbs.), traveling at a speed of 30 miles per hour, over a one mile
stretch of unpaved road and with the assumption of 30% of those emissions remaining suspended. Using
the following equations:



       EF=                5.9                (S)                (V)               (W)0.8               (d)

                                             12                 30                  3                 365



         EMISSIONS =                  .3(EF)x(Y) x 365 days/yr                 = 25 tons/yr.

                                            2000 lbs./ton




                                                                                                             38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        S = silt content

        V = vehicle speed

        W = weight of vehicle

        d = dry days per year

        EF = emission factor expressed in terms of lbs. per vehicle miles traveled

        Y = Vehicle miles traveled per day

The higher traffic count in attainment areas can be accounted for by examining the difference in the factor
“number of dry days per year” between attainment and non-attainment areas (215 and 285 respectively).
(Because the non-attainment areas are basically all east of the mountains “dry day” figures for Colorado
eastern plains were used for non-attainment areas; and north-central mountain figures were used for
attainment areas.)

In response to the Colorado Court of Appeals' decision in CF&I Steel Corporation vs. AQCC (cited
above), the regulation no longer has separate sections concerning publicly owned and privately owned
unpaved roadways. The provisions for control of emissions from unpaved roadways apply to all unpaved
roadways and reference to ownership has been eliminated.

There was discussion at the rulemaking hearing about whether dust emissions from unpaved roadways
were inhalable and therefore presented a hazard to public health. It is the commission's conclusion that
65% of the emissions [expressed as a percentage of suspended particulate (i.e. less than 30 microns)]
from unpaved roadways are less than 10 microns in size and less (improved emission factors for fugitive
dust from western surface coal mining sources Vol. II) and that they therefore do warrant control for the
protection of public health.

Various persons, including local governments and the Colorado General Assembly, expressed concern
about the cost of controlling emissions from unpaved roadways and urged that local officials are generally
in a better position to determine and exercise appropriate control over roadways. Especially in light of the
limited personnel resources of the division, the commission would therefore encourage the division to
exercise its authority under C.R.S. 1973, § 25-7-111(2)(f) in designating local agencies willing and able to
enforce the regulation as agents of the division in concurrently enforcing this regulation – and especially
with respect to air pollution problems which can be evaluated by such local agencies.

Neither the 20% opacity nor the no off-property transport emission limitations guidelines seemed
appropriate for application to unpaved roadways. To focus the limited personnel resources on the more
serious problems a “nuisance” emission limitation guideline has been employed. Investigations will be
initiated in response to citizen's complaints of nuisances created by excess emissions from unpaved
roadways.

Section III.D.2.b. – Construction Activities.

Large percentages (54% from dozers, 49% from scrapers, 48% from graders, 67% from exposed areas)
of the fugitive particulate emissions from construction activities are inhalable (Improved Emission Factors
for Fugitive Dust from Western Surface Coal Mining Sources, Vol. II) and therefore need controls. Thus
the commission has established a list of potential control measures for this activity. The smallest size of
disturbed acreage requiring control in non-attainment areas was reduced from 5 acres to 1 acre in size in
order that those smaller sources – determined to be significant source of emissions in non-attainment
areas because of the great amount of construction activities occurring on smaller sites – could be
controlled. The 5 acres remains as the size cutoff in attainment areas.




                                                                                                         39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section III D.2.c. – Storage and Handling of Materials.

The commission established a list of potential control measures for this activity for inclusion in a
requested control plan. The percentage of inhalable particulates from storage and handling activities is
presented in Improved Emission Factors for Fugitive Dust from Western Coal Mining Sources, Vol. II
(listed as 30% loading, 49% dozer, 61% storage piles) are significant emissions and therefore the
commission has concluded that such emissions should be controlled.

Section III.D.2.d. – Mining Activities.

A large percentage of fugitive particulate emissions from mining activities are inhalable. The information
in Table 12-2 from Improved Emission Factors for Fugitive Dust from Western Coal Mining Sources, Vol.
II, shows inhalable particulates for several mining related activities in a range of 30% – 67%. The
commission has concluded that these are significant emissions and should therefore be controlled. Thus
the commission has established the list of potential control measures for this activity for inclusion in a
control plan. Underground mining activities are exempt from the provisions of Section III.D.2.d. However,
if emissions from underground mining activities are vented to the atmosphere, they are subject to the
opacity provisions of Section II.A.1.

Section III.D.2.e. – Haul Roads.

The commission determined that a substantial amount of fugitive particulate emissions come from haul
roads. For example, the percentage of inhalable particulates created by haul trucks traveling on such
roads is listed as 52% in a table from Improved Emission Factors for Fugitive Dust from Western Surface
Coal Mining Sources Vol., II. The commission has concluded that these emissions are significant and
should be controlled. Thus, the commission established the list of potential control measures for this
activity. The commission included a traffic count of 40 haul vehicles or 200 total vehicles per day
(averaged over any consecutive 3-day period) for haul roads as a result of the calculated emissions using
the following formula:



           EF =                           SV                     365-W                         N

                                          60                      365                          4

S = silt content (if unknown assume 15%)

V = vehicle speed in mph (average)

W = mean annual number of days with .01 inches or more rainfall

N = number of wheels on vehicle

Assumptions:

40 mph (average speed) = V

        6 wheels on vehicles = N

        80 days (West Slope condition) = W




                                                                                                           40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission



        EF =                 15 x 40                 365 – 80              6=                11.7 lb/VMT

                                60                     365                  4



                                      .3 (EF) x “Y” x 365 Days /Yr
          Emissions =                                                        25 Tons/Year
                                                    =

                                            2000 lb Per Ton



                                                                                       40 vehicle miles per
           E=                         25 x 2000                      =
                                                                                               day

                                     .3(11.7)(365)



                                       Emission factor expressed
               EF =
                                            in terms of lbs.

                                       Per vehicle mile traveled



                                       Vehicle miles traveled per
               “Y” =
                                                  day

Recognizing that a haul road could have significant emissions even without hauling 40 haul vehicles per
day because of other vehicular traffic, haul roads are subject to the regulation when their traffic count
exceeds either 40 haul vehicles or 200 total vehicles per day (200 light weight vehicles representing
emissions of 25 tons per year for unpaved roadways – see comments on Section III.D.2.a. above.)

As with roadways and for the same reasons, a nuisance emission limitation guideline has been adopted
as an inspection “trigger” for “off-site” haul roads. The no off-property transport emission limitation
guideline applies to “on-site” haul roads.

Section III.D.2.f. – Haul Trucks.

A list of alternative control measures has been established by the commission for this activity for inclusion
in a requested control plan. There were no emission factors for determining the emissions from the load
of a loaded haul truck.

Section III.D.2.g. – Tailings Piles and Ponds.

The commission established the list of abatement and control measures for this activity for inclusion in
any requested control plan. “exposed areas” are listed in a table as being 67% inhalable particulates. This
is found in Improved Emission Factors for Fugitive Dust from Western Surface Coal Mining Sources, Vol.
II. The commission concluded that these emissions are significant and therefore should be controlled.




                                                                                                           41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section III.D.2.h – Demolition Activities.

A significant amount of this activity does occur in the non-attainment areas and necessitates control. The
commission established the list of control measures for this activity for inclusion in a control plan
submittal. Cross-reference is made to the requirements of Regulation Number 8 regarding asbestos
materials.

Section III.D.2.i – Blasting Activities.

The commission provided a list of potential control measures for inclusion in any requested control plan.
The percentage of inhalable particulates from blasting is listed as 44% in a table from Improved Emission
Factors for Fugitive Dust from Western Surface Coal Mining Sources, Vol. II. The commission concluded
that these emissions are significant and should therefore be controlled.

Section III.D.2.j. – Sandblasting Operations.

The commission established a list of potential control measures for inclusion in any requested control
plan.

Section III.D.2.k – Livestock Confinement Operations.

The commission established a list of potential control measures for inclusion in any requested control
plan. These measures will provide an economic benefit to the operator of livestock confinement
operations (i.e., there should be fewer incidents of dust pneumonia in livestock).

Agriculture Activities: The commission determined that fugitive particulate emissions from agricultural
activities (e.g., plowing, or dicing) cannot be controlled by methods that are economically reasonable and
feasible - such as watering. The commission further determined that the great majority of emissions from
agricultural activities were not from activities such as plowing, but from the action of the wind on exposed
soil. The commission therefore reviewed the provisions of the Colorado Soil Erosion and Dust Blowing
Act of 1954, C.R.S. 1973 Section 35-72-101, and determined that statute adequately addresses the
problem of fugitive particulate emissions from agricultural activities. Agricultural activities are therefore not
subject to the provisions of Section III.D. Agricultural activities have been specifically exempted from the
open burning requirements of Section II.C. The exemption is viewed as an economic necessity to
commercial agricultural operations.

Section IV. - Continuous Emission Monitoring Requirements for Existing Sources.

The commission has included Continuous Emission Monitoring Requirements for four types of sources:
Fossil Fuel-Fired Steam Generators; Sulfuric Acid Plants; Fluid Bed Catalyst Regenerators at Petroleum
Refineries. However, CEM units for the measurement of NO x emissions from existing sources of NOx
were considered unnecessary as there is no NOx standard for existing sources. As a substitute to CEM
an approved coal-sampling program to determine the sulfur content of the coal being fired in the steam
generators may be employed. With such data, SO2 emissions can be calculated. Performance
specifications, calibration requirements, notification and recordkeeping have been included for the
evaluation of any such CEM system that is required by this section. This part meets and exceeds the
requirements of 40 CFR, Part 51, Appendix P, Volume 40, Number 194 Fed. Reg. 46247 (October 6,
1975).

The commission has determined that continuous emission monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) is
necessary for fluidized-bed catalytic cracking unit regenerators at petroleum refineries. Continuous
Emission Monitoring will ensure the emission standard is being met at these sources that are the largest
CO emitters in the state. (March 20, 1986)

Section V. - (Adopted March 11, 1982) See below.




                                                                                                              42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Section VI. - Sulfur Dioxide Emission Regulations:

The commission made no substantive changes to the provisions of the previous Regulation Number 1.

The commission revised the regulation to make existing sources subject to meeting specific emission
standards when their emissions exceed three tons per day of sulfur dioxide rather than the previous five
tons per day. The new level is to ensure that major sources of sulfur dioxide in Colorado are well
controlled such that ambient impacts and potential air quality related value impacts are reduced. (March
20, 1986)

Section IX. Emission Regulations Concerning Areas that are Non-attainment for Carbon Monoxide.

Carbon Monoxide Emission Regulation: The Denver Metro Area has a serious Carbon Monoxide Air
Pollution Problem. Air quality monitoring conducted in 1980 indicated that the Denver Metro Area
exceeded the standard by almost 58% (for the second worst case). Air quality modeling performed in
support of the 1982 State Implementation Plan (SIP) shows that the predicted maximum concentration of
CO in 1987 will still exceed the national Air Quality Standard by 25%. If Denver does not come into
compliance by 1987 it faces possible economic sanctions or imposed measures, which will decrease
carbon monoxide levels sufficiently so that the standard will be met.

EPA reviewed Colorado's 1982 SIP submittal and expressed concern regarding the CO problem and the
division's plans to deal with it. One strategy EPA has stated Colorado must employ is the requirement that
all major stationary sources of CO (greater than 1,000 TPY) in non-attainment areas use “Reasonably
Available Control Technology” (RACT) to reduce emissions. Though EPA has not specifically defined
what RACT is for major CO sources, the commission herein defines RACT as any control device
approved by the division that will reduce CO emissions to a level less than or equal to 0.050% of exhaust
gases by volume.

The only CO sources located in non-attainment areas of Colorado, which emit greater than 1,000 TPY
are fluidized-bed catalytic cracking units (FCC) at Petroleum refineries. Uncontrolled emissions from
these units can approach 10% (100,000 ppm).

Control technology is readily available for use in FCC units. According to EPA publication AP-42, carbon
monoxide boilers can reduce emissions to “negligible levels”. Similarly, the use of combustion promoters
can reduce CO emissions to less than 0.050%, according to the Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology.

The requirement to apply RACT to carbon monoxide emission sources at refineries will reduce reported
emissions, as used in the 1982 SIP Revision, from 125 tons per day to 11 tons per day, an improvement
of about 91%. This will result in a 4% reduction in the Denver Metro CO inventory, thus demonstrating
further progress towards attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. (March 20, 1986)

APPENDIX A. Method of Measuring Opacity from Fugitive Particulate Emission Sources.

Also in response to the referenced dicta in the Court of Appeal's CF&I decision, the commission has
included a specified method for measuring opacity of fugitive particulate emissions from non-point
sources. Although this may not be as precise as Method 9 (40 CFR. Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)) as
applied to stacks since this is a guideline and not an enforceable standard the commission determined it
to be quite adequate for these purposes. The method is a modified version of EPA Method 9 (40 CFR,
Part 60, Appendix A (July, 1992)). Terminology was changed to reflect this method's applicability to
fugitive particulate emission sources covered by Section III.D.A. of this regulation. Additional procedures
are established for the positioning of the observer and the observing of emissions (at a point of release to
the atmosphere). These procedures will become part of the training at “smoke schools” conducted by the
Colorado Department of Health for certification of smoke and opacity observers.




                                                                                                          43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


APPENDIX B. Method of Measurement of Off-Property Transport of Fugitive Particulate Emissions.

The commission included this method of measurement of fugitive particulate emissions in order that the
“Off-Property Transport” guideline is uniformly applied by observers. This method generally employs the
same criteria for the positioning of an observer as the method of measurement of opacity in Section
III.D.2. of this Regulation Number 1. This method will also be included in the “smoke school” training for
the certification of smoke and opacity observers.

        a.       Section V. (Adopted March 11, 1982)

This rationale complies with the requirement of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-
103(4) that the Air Quality Control commission (commission) prepare a statement of basis and purpose
for these amendments. The statutory authority for these amendments is in the Air Quality Control Act at
C.R.S. 1973. 25-7-102, 25-7-105, 25-7-106, and 25-7-109. The general purpose of the amendments was
to require reasonably available control technology (RACT) be applied to particulate emission sources at
existing iron and steel plants. The CF&I Steel Corporation (CF&I) and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) were the only parties to the rulemaking. The Air Pollution Control division (division) acted
as staff for and advised the commission during the proceeding.

The parties and the commission addressed two major areas of controversy: whether the use of clean
water for coke quenching operations represents RACT and which methods of emission control for cast
houses represents RACT.

Coke quenching is considered by the commission to be a major source of particulate emissions from iron
and steel plants and development of emission controls for coke quenching should be encouraged. As
originally proposed, RACT for coke quenching would have required the use of water having no more than
700 mg/l of total dissolved solids (TDS). However, upon review of the rulemaking record, the commission
has determined that it has insufficient information to adopt an emission control regulation for coke
quenching. Therefore, the commission is requiring the submission of reports on the capabilities of
wastewater treatment facilities, the generation rates of wastewater, the relationship between TDS levels
in coke quench water and other variables, the particulate-removing efficiency of existing baffling systems,
and the costs of installation of alternative baffling systems. Based on these reports and information
relating to the effectiveness of powder activated carbon in wastewater treatment facilities, the
effectiveness of baffling systems at other iron and steel plants, the relationship of TDS levels to
particulate emissions, and other relevant information, the commission will reconsider the issue of RACT
for coke quenching.

The commission has determined that non-capture technology (for example, shrouding and suppression)
constitutes RACT for cast house particulate emissions, except for emissions from the iron notch, ladle
and spouts. Due to the developing and proprietary nature of such technology, the commission has
adopted a general requirement for use of such technology that will permit iron and steel plants to
determine its most cost and pollution control effective application at such plants. Iron and steel plants will
be allowed a period of two years to develop, evaluate and apply a non-capture technology at one of its
cast houses. It is not considered feasible to apply such technology in a lesser time period. Based on the
experience with this initial application, the commission expects to develop a more specific standard for
the use of such technology at additional cast houses. Because there is not a basis in the record for
concluding that capture technology is cost effective or RACT, the commission has determined not to
require such technology.

        b.       Amended Sections V.A.5.c. and V.B.5.a. (Adopted: February 24, 1983).

This rationale complies with the requirement of the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-
103(4) that the Air Quality Control commission (commission) prepare a statement of basis and purpose
for these amendments. The statutory authority for these amendments are in the Air Quality Control Act at
C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-102, 25-7-105, 25-7-106, and 25-7-109.




                                                                                                            44
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The commission has determined that the effective dates for meeting the requirements for coke quenching
and cast houses as described above in paragraph B should be postponed for the following reasons:

                (1)     Due to economic conditions the coke plant and blast furnaces at the iron and
                        steel plants are currently not in operation. The studies and control measures
                        outlined in Section V were to be conducted and implemented while those sources
                        were in operation (with the exception of a study outlining the costs of installing
                        and operating existing quench towers with alternative baffling system(s)).

                (2)     With regard to the study outlining the costs of installing and operating existing
                        quench towers with alternative baffling systems, the commission determined that
                        (due to the current economic conditions and reduced work force at iron and steel
                        plants) a postponement until “normal rate of production” at coke plants is again
                        reached would result in more useful data being submitted.

In regard to quenching of coke the time period for submittal of reports shall be fifteen months from the
time that production levels return to 128 ovens per day. With regard to cast houses, the time period for
implementing controls shall be determined from the date of return to service of one blast furnace.

Regarding the issue of reasonably available control technology (“RACT”), for the iron notch, the iron ladle
and the iron spout required to be addressed by Section V.B.5., the commission adopts the division's and
CF&I's agreement that RACT is not currently available in non-capture emission controls for the iron spout
and the iron ladle. However, there is reason to believe that U.S. Steel Corporation will soon be publicly
revealing its non-capture technology for iron and steel plants. The division should review the available
technology, and if RACT exists, return to the commission with a recommendation for rulemaking.

For these reasons, the commission believes that emissions from iron and steel plants will be controlled as
expeditiously as practicable under these delayed schedules.

        c.      Written statements of the basis and purpose for the various provisions in Section VI of
                this regulation were prepared and adopted by the commission at the times such
                provisions were adopted. These written statements were incorporated in this regulation
                by reference and in accord with C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-103 as amended. Copies are available
                at the office of the Air Quality Control commission.

X.A.    Adopted: August 11, 1977

RATIONALE FOR THE PROMULGATION OF A NEW SOURCE EMISSION CONTROL REGULATION

The Air Pollution Control commission of the State of Colorado has reviewed the oral testimony and
documentary evidence submitted in the course of its rulemaking proceedings on proposed new ambient
air standards for sulfur dioxide and new source emission standards for sulfur dioxide. The attached
amendments to the existing Colorado ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide and the existing
Regulation Number 1 of the Colorado Air Pollution Control commission are a result of study, analysis and
technical evaluation by the commission and its staff and, in the judgment of the commission, represent
those standards which will most effectively foster the welfare, convenience and comfort of Colorado
residents in facilitating the enjoyment of nature, scenery, and other related resources of the State. In
every respect, this commission's deliberations and determinations have been guided by the legislative
declaration of the policy of the Colorado Air Pollution Control Act of 1970: to achieve the maximum
practical degree of air purity in every portion of our State.




                                                                                                           45
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


New Source Emission Standards for Sulfur Dioxide

It was evident throughout the course of public hearings and is obvious to the commission that the
hazardous effects of sulfur dioxide are measured by its concentration in the ambient air. It is the quantity
emitted per unit time that determines this ambient concentration rather than the concentration in any
particular effluent stream. Emission rates are significant with respect to effects on the environment and on
human population and vegetation, but ambient air concentrations are the primary consideration in terms
of these effects and for that reason ambient air standards that are reasonably related to existing
conditions in Colorado have been established. These new ambient standards and emission rates have
been developed to reflect a consistent basis.

The commission in the course of establishing these new sulfur dioxide standards has considered three
general themes. (1) Best practical control technology must, in general, be employed. (2) For some
industries the cost of such control technology might be prohibitive for certain small sources. Since the
total emissions from such sources are not large and do not have a substantial effect on ambient
concentrations, the commission has adopted emission standards which reflect economic considerations
for small sources. (3) In response to overwhelming testimony from industry, from technical experts, and
from the general public, the commission has acknowledged that emission standards should not be based
on volumetric concentrations in the effluent stream but rather on the weight of sulfur dioxide emitted per
energy input or unit of product as processed.

Many witnesses representing industry and users of electrical power suggested that Colorado should
adopt the EPA New Source Performance Standards (NSPS). The commission has considered this
suggestion. However, it is the conclusion of the commission that EPA New Source Performance
Standards are based on the use of high-sulfur coal as well as the application of best external control
technology to the effluent gases. Given the availability of low-sulfur western coal for industrial usage in
this state, it has been concluded that the application of best practical control technology should result in
considerably lower emissions for Colorado sources than those specified in EPA New Source
Performance Standards. Logically, the more stringent emissions standards are possible and desirable if
low sulfur coal is employed. Testimony to support this conclusion was presented at the hearings.

The commission has adopted certain features of the New Source Performance Standards: (1) The
commission has established a two-hour averaging time for emission standards identical to that set forth in
the NSPS. (2) The commission has recognized that small sources should not be subject to the substantial
cost of external sulfur dioxide removal equipment, which is proportionately more costly for small industrial
operations. The hazard to ambient air quality may be satisfactorily minimized in most instances by the use
of low-sulfur fuels for these smaller sources. Where a distinction is made, the cut-off point for small
sources is identical to that employed in the NSPS (250 million BTU per hour).

Coal-Fired Operations Including Coal-Fired Steam Generation

Take as a reference point the information supplied in the application for an emission permit for the
proposed Pawnee 500 megawatt steam generating station. A heat input of 5,430 Million BTU per hour
produces 500 megawatts of electrical power. The overall thermal efficiency is 31% and 10.9 million BTU
per hour are required per megawatt of power.

Some eastern high-sulfur coals have caloric values on the order of 12,000 BTU per pound and sulfur
contents on the order of 2.5%. If it is assumed that 5% of the sulfur is retained in the ash, the emission
rate of an operation using this coal would be 3.96 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. Compliance
with the New Source Performance Standards of 1.2 pounds per million BTU would require a sulfur dioxide
removal efficiency of 70%. It is the finding of this commission, based in part upon testimony from
industrial and non-industrial sources, that control efficiencies on the order of 70% sulfur dioxide removal
may be attained without undue financial burden on large new sources.




                                                                                                               46
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


This 70% removal efficiency may be taken as a measure of the application of best practical control
technology. Testimony presented before the commission indicated that steam coal readily available for
use in Colorado had a caloric content on the order of 8,000 BTU per pound and a sulfur content of 0.5%.
Uncontrolled emissions from the use of such coal would be 1.19 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU.
The best practical control technology, operating at an efficiency of 70% would reduce the emission rate to
0.36 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. The commission, therefore, adopted an emission standard
of 0.4 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. The required removal efficiencies are shown as a function
of coal parameters in Table I.

For smaller sources an emission limit was set identical to the NSPS large source values. This standard
may be met by the use of high quality low-sulfur western coal. The maximum emission under this
standard would be 3.6 tons of sulfur dioxide per day and could result in the production of 23 megawatts of
electrical power. Table II contains some information regarding the quality of coal required to meet this
standard.

Of special concern to the commission was the problem of conversion of facilities from other fuels to coal.
This issue was frequently raised in the testimony. It was clearly indicated that the cost of installing
external sulfur dioxide control equipment would be prohibitive in terms of the necessary modifications to
existing equipment: lack of space in which to install the control equipment was termed an almost
insurmountable obstacle. The commission therefore concluded that the sulfur dioxide emissions standard
for operations converted to coal-firing from the use of other fuels would be the NSPS; namely, 1.2 pounds
of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. This standard can be met through the use of available high quality coal.
The maximum emission from such a converted 100-megawatt facility would be approximately 16 tons per
day, or equivalent to the emissions from a 300-megawatt installation operating at an emission rate of 0.4
pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. The nature of the required coal quality is indicated in Table II.



  TABLE I REMOVAL EFFICIENCIES REQUIRED TO MEET AN EMISSION STANDARD OF
                         0.4 POUNDS PER MILLION BTU

                                (Assumes 5% sulfur retention in ash)

   Caloric Content Efficiency
                                           Percent Sulfur                     Removal
         (%) (BTU/lb.)

             8,000                              0.4                              58

                                                0.5                              66

                                                0.6                              72

                                                0.8                              79

                                                0.9                              81

             9,000                              0.5                              62

                                                0.6                              69

                                                0.8                              76

                                                1.0                              81

             10,000                             0.6                              65




                                                                                                        47
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission



  TABLE I REMOVAL EFFICIENCIES REQUIRED TO MEET AN EMISSION STANDARD OF
                         0.4 POUNDS PER MILLION BTU

                                (Assumes 5% sulfur retention in ash)

   Caloric Content Efficiency
                                           Percent Sulfur                   Removal
         (%) (BTU/lb.)

                                                0.7                             70

                                                0.9                             77

                                                1.1                             81

            11,000                              0.6                             62

                                                0.7                             67

                                                0.9                             74

                                                1.1                             79



     TABLE II SULFUR DIOXIDE EMISSION FROM COAL

             (Assumes 5% sulfur retention in coal)

                                    Maximum Sulfur Content to
          BTU/pound                 Meet Emission Standard of
                                    1.2 pounds per million BTU

             8,000                            0.50%

             9,000                            0.57%

            10,000                            0.63%

            11,000                            0.69%

Under certain circumstances the emission standards may be limiting; under other circumstances, the
ambient air quality standards may govern the issuance of permits to new coal-fired sources. In any event,
impact on ambient air quality is the ultimate concern and siting may thus become an important factor for
new sources. Several Rocky Mountain States have adopted sulfur dioxide emission standards more
restrictive than the Federal standards and in some cases, more restrictive than these Colorado
Standards.




                                                                                                       48
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Oil-Fired Operations Including Oil-Fired Steam Generation

The New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for oil-fired operations with a heat input greater than
250 million BTU per hour is 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. In line with the philosophy of
higher emission rates per unit of energy input for small sources and in line with the adoption of NSPS for
new coal-fired sources of less than 250 million BTU input per hour, the commission adopted an emission
standard of 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU for sources with a heat input less than 250 million
BTU per hour. The required degree of oil quality is shown in Table III, and oil of the quality necessary to
meet these standards is available.

For larger oil-fired operations (greater than 250 million BTU per hour) the commission again decided to
require best practical control technology. The standard adopted is calculated from the ration of the NSPS
standards for coal and oil applied to the adopted 0.4 pounds per million BTU standard for coal-fired
operations. The standard for large new oil-fired operations thus becomes 0.3 pounds of sulfur dioxide per
million BTU. At present, there is little expectation that large new oil-fired facilities will be constructed. No
industry provided testimony at the hearings regarding its intent to construct a large oil-fired facility in
Colorado.



  TABLE III SULFUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM FUEL OIL

  Percent sulfur                    Pounds per million BTU

  0.1                               0.11

  0.2                               0.21

  0.28*                             0.30

  0.4                               0.42

  0.6                               0.42

  0.7                               0.75

  0.75**                            0.80

  0.9                               0.95

  1.0                               1.05

  * Maximum sulfur content required to meet standard of 0.3 lbs/million BTU

  ** Maximum sulfur content required to meet standard of 0.8 lbs/million BTU

The standard of 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU would be applied to emissions for facilities
converted from other fuels to oil. The rationale follows that given above for coal-fired operations.




                                                                                                              49
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Combustion Turbines

These are used largely for peaking operations. There is little likelihood that natural gas will be used as a
fuel for such sources in the near future. The major fuel will be oil for new sources and sources converted
from natural gas use. The commission adopted the same standards for emissions from combustion
turbines as for emissions from oil-fired operations. High quality distillate will be required.

Little testimony was presented on this issue.

Natural Gas Desulfurization

Natural gas (primarily methane) is a clean and desirable fuel for household use. It is considerably more
efficient for such use than electrical energy obtained from coal combustion. The conversion efficiency for
the conversion of coal to electrical energy is on the order of 30%; the conversion of the chemical energy
of natural gas to thermal energy is on the order of 80%.

Much natural gas as it comes from the well is “sour”; i.e. contains significant and varying concentrations of
hydrogen sulfide. This substance must be removed before the gas is put into the pipeline. For smaller
sources, the waste hydrogen sulfide may be “flared” and converted into sulfur dioxide and emitted as
such. For larger sources, the gas is desulfurized by means of a process which converts the hydrogen
sulfide into elemental sulfur. Sulfur dioxide is emitted as a by-product in such a process. Control
technology exists for reduction of all such sulfur dioxide emissions.

The caloric content of natural gas is on the order of one million BTU per 1,000 cubic feet. Small coal-fired
electrical generating facilities have been assigned an emission standard of 1.2 pounds per million BTU.
Considering the greater efficiency of natural gas in its usage (by factor of 80/30) it is reasonable to adopt
a higher emission rate per unit of energy for natural gas desulfurization. However, the stacks employed in
such desulfurization are lower than those normally used in coal-fired generation operations and hence,
contribute significantly to increased ambient levels. A balancing process for establishment of these
emission standards has therefore become necessary.

Application of highly efficient sulfur dioxide removal equipment may be prohibitively expensive for small
sources. The commission has, after review of the short stack considerations, decided to adopt a break
point between large and small sources of 3 tons of sulfur dioxide emissions per day. The applicable
standard for such small sources is set at 2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per 1,000 cubic feet (one million
BTU). This recognizes the greater thermal efficiency of natural gas while minimizing impact on ambient air
quality.

For larger sources, the emission standard of 0.8 pounds of sulfur dioxide per 1,000 cubic feet of gas
delivered to the pipeline gives weight to the increased energy efficiency of natural gas, as compared to
coal, for the generation of applicable power. (This standard is roughly twice that for coal-fired operation.)
Suitable technology is available for control in such large sources. Again little testimony was presented at
the hearings. Table IV contains some pertinent data with respect to natural gas desulfurization.



                               TABLE IV NATURAL GAS DESULFURIZATION

                                                lbs. SO2/1,000       % Removal (2.0         % Removal (0.8
    Vol. % CO2           Vol. % H2S
                                                  Cubic feet             lbs.)                  lbs.)

         10                   16                    38.6                    95                     98

                              14                    32.9                    94                     98




                                                                                                            50
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission



                        TABLE IV NATURAL GAS DESULFURIZATION

                                  lbs. SO2/1,000        % Removal (2.0        % Removal (0.8
   Vol. % CO2      Vol. % H2S
                                    Cubic feet              lbs.)                 lbs.)

                       12              27.5                    93                    97

                       10              22.3                    91                    96

                       8               17.4                    89                    95

                       6               12.8                    84                    94

                       4                8.3                    76                    90

                       2                4.1                    51                    80

                       1                2.0                     -                    60

                      0.5               1.0                    —                     20

       0               16              34.0                    94                    98

                       12              24.3                    92                    97

                       8               15.5                    87                    95

                       4                7.4                    73                    89

                       1                1.8                    —                     56

                      0.5               0.9                    —                     11

                                  Permitted Production per day in Cubic Feet at Uncontrolled 3
                                        tons of Sulfur Dioxide per day (Million cubic feet)

                       16                                    0.177

                       12                                    0.247

                       8                                     0.387

                       4                                     0.811

                       1                                     3.334

                      0.5                                    6.666




                                                                                             51
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Petroleum Refining

The prediction and analysis of sulfur dioxide emissions from the refining of crude oil presents a complex
problem. The sulfur content of the crude oil varies; the sulfur content of the various portions of refined
products varies as does the mix of these products; the emissions are from several processes. The
refineries now in operation in Colorado range in capacity from 6,000 to 35,000 barrels per day. The
largest refinery processes crude oil with an average sulfur content of 0.9% and a range of about a factor
of 2. This crude is considered “sour”; i.e. containing a significant concentration of elemental sulfur. Some
sulfur dioxide escapes in this process as well as from other operations in the refining cycle. It is estimated
that the total emissions from this refinery range from 10 to perhaps 15 tons per day. With a 35,000 barrel
a day capacity the emission rate is thus 0.57 – 0.86 pounds of sulfur dioxide per barrel of oil processed.

Little evidence was presented to the commission regarding technical aspects of new petroleum refining
facilities. Further study by the commission and staff indicate that (1) emission standards should be set for
the overall operation rather than on standards for the separate process units due to the complexity of this
operation (2) that technology for new operations is available (tail-gas scrubbing) that would lower the
emissions by at least a factor of three, and (3) such technology is economically feasible for new
construction. The commission therefore adopted an emission standard of 0.3 pounds of sulfur dioxide per
barrel of oil processed. Under this standard a 40,000 barrel a day plant would emit per day 6 tons of
sulfur dioxide, equivalent to the emissions from a controlled 140 megawatt electrical generating facility.

Production of Oil from Shale

Due to the complexity of sulfur dioxide emission sources in a shale oil production facility, whether it
involve surface retorting or “in situ” production, the commission adopted an emission standard which
relates the permitted sulfur dioxide emission to the operation as a whole (in terms of quantity of oil
produced).

Some conflicting evidence was presented to the commission on this issue. The proposed Union Oil Plant
would purportedly emit 6 tons of sulfur dioxide per day and produce 71,000 barrels a day; the emission
rate would be 0.17 pounds of sulfur dioxide per barrel of oil produced. The proposed Colony surface
retorting facility was described as emitting 3.9 tons per day with production of 43,000 barrels a day. The
emission rate will be 0.18 pounds per barrel. Testimony from Standard Oil of Indiana projected an
emission rate for a modified “in situ” process of close to a full pound of sulfur dioxide per barrel. This latter
figure has, however, been significantly reduced, in the detailed development plan for this project, to 0.3
pounds of sulfur dioxide per barrel of oil. The “in situ” process may offer other significant advantages in
environmental impact over surface retorting. It was the decision of the commission, therefore, to adopt an
emission standard for large oil shale production facilities of 0.3 pounds of sulfur dioxide per barrel of oil
produced. This standard is to be applied to the total of such emissions from the production facility. The
commission anticipates the construction of small experimental units to test new methods for the
production of oil from shale. The nature of sulfur dioxide emissions from such sources would not be
precisely known, nor would the total emissions be large. The commission has therefore decided to
exempt sources with a production rate less than 1,000 barrels a day from process emission standards.

Under these standards, the emission rate for a 50,000 barrel a day operation would be 7.5 tons a day
which is equivalent to the emissions from a controlled 130 megawatt electrical generating plant.

Refining of Oil Produced from Shale

It appears that the sulfur content of the shale oil delivered to the refineries will be on the order of one
percent. This is similar to the oil now being processed in the Conoco refinery in Denver. The same
argument would therefore apply here as was advanced for the refining of conventional crude oil. The
emission standard for large operations is thus set at 0.3 pounds of sulfur dioxide per barrel of oil refined.




                                                                                                              52
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Again the commission has decided to exempt small experimental operations from process standards. The
cut-off has been set at 1,000 barrels per day. Taking an extreme point of view (all the sulfur is emitted as
sulfur dioxide and none retained in the product) the daily emissions from a 1,000 barrel a day operation
would be 2.8 tons of sulfur dioxide per day which is equivalent to the emissions from a controlled 50
megawatt electrical facility.

Sulfuric Acid Production

These are the EPA New Source Performance Standards and will require installation of control devices
that are available.

Any Sulfur Dioxide Source Not Specifically Regulated Above

No evidence was introduced concerning such emissions. The commission is not aware of plans for
construction of such sources or the nature of the sources. It is proposed, consistent with the general
philosophy concerning small sources, to exempt sources with an emission rate of less than two tons per
day (equivalent to the emissions from a controlled 36 megawatt installation) from process standards. For
new large sources the application of best practical control technology will be required. Due to the
unknown nature of these new sources, it is impossible to specify process emission rates, the nature of the
control technology, and its efficiency. The Air Pollution Control division in its evaluation of the permit
application is charged with determining whether best practical control technology will be utilized. The
commission reserves the right to review such decisions.

X.B.    Adopted: April 9, 1981

RATIONALE AND JUSTIFICATION FOR THE AMENDMENT OF AIR QUALITY CONTROL
COMMISSION REGULATION NUMBER 1, SECTION IV, BY ADDING A NEW SUBSECTION D.

On April 9, 1981 the Air Quality Control commission adopted an Amendment to Air Quality Control
commission Regulation Number 1, Section IV. concerning Limitation on Emissions from Sinter Plant
Windboxes at Existing Iron and Steel Plant Operations.

Colorado's only existing sinter plants at iron and steel facilities are located at the CF&I plant in Pueblo,
Colorado. The Pueblo area is currently designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
as non-attainment with respect to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for total
suspended particulates.

Section 172(b)(3) of the Federal Clean Air Act requires that State Implementation Plans for non-
attainment areas require reduction of emissions from existing sources through adoption, at a minimum, of
Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT).

EPA has proposed conditional approval of the Pueblo element of the Colorado State Implementation Plan
in the December 12, 1980 Federal Register (45 Fed. Reg. 81789). In that proposed rulemaking notice,
EPA indicated that the Air Quality Control commission's existing emission limitations for various sources
at existing iron and steel plants do not represent Reasonably Available Control Technology and proposed
approval of the Pueblo element of the SIP on condition, among others, that the Air Quality Control
commission emission control regulations for existing iron and steel plants be revised to represent RACT.

In response to the requirement of section 172 of the Clean Air Act and EPA's proposed conditional
approval of the Pueblo element of the SIP, the commission is conducting public hearings to review and
revise as appropriate, emission control regulations for sources at existing iron and steel plants. Because
of an existing compliance order issued by the Air Pollution Control division and affirmed by the Air Quality
Hearings Board, requiring CF&I to bring its sinter plant into compliance with existing standards, the
commission decided to conduct rule making with respect to sinter plants as early as possible.




                                                                                                               53
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


With respect to the interpretation of the numerical standard “0.03 gr/dscf”, such standard is intended to be
interpreted as an absolute standard such that any emissions in excess of 0.03 gr/dscf, no matter how
minimal, shall constitute a violation. In other words, the commission is approving the Air Pollution Control
division's past and continuing interpretation of numerical standards as if they were followed by an
unlimited number of zeros. This interpretation by the Air Pollution Control division is approved on the
understanding that the Air Pollution Control division would normally not initiate enforcement action for
extremely minimal violations (e.g., 0.0301).

The Air Quality Control commission determined that there was no legal basis for adoption as part of the
regulation of an exemption for CF&I from enforcement of the applicable existing, less stringent emission
limitation (.037 gr/dscf equivalent) while CF&I implements the new, more stringent 0.03 gr/dscf standard.
The Air Quality Control commission acknowledges that the Air Pollution Control division, not the Air
Quality Control commission, is charged by statute (C.R.S. 1973, 25-7-115) with enforcement of emission
control regulations and trusts all relevant factors (including CF&I's efforts and success in complying with
existing standards) will be considered by the Air Pollution Control division in exercising its enforcement
authority.

X.C.    Adopted: August 26, 1982

Emergency Amendment to Regulation Number 1 Section III.D.1. (Fugitive Particulate Emissions)

On April 8, 1982, the Air Quality Control commission adopted a new Regulation Number 1 which was
scheduled to become effective May 30, 1982. On April 19, 1982, the Attorney General for the State of
Colorado, in accordance with the provisions of C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-103(8)(b), issued an opinion as to the
legality and constitutionality of the new regulation and disapproved in part Section III.D. of the regulation
(concerning control of fugitive particulate emissions).

Recognizing that the Attorney General's opinion raises a substantial question as to the validity of portions
of Section III.D. of the regulation (and poses significant problems with respect to enforcement of said
regulation; finding that having an enforceable regulation for the control of fugitive particulate emissions
necessary to the preservation of the public health and welfare; and in order to avoid the circumstance of
not having an enforceable regulation for the control of fugitive particulate emissions for any significant
period of time [as would result if the normal rulemaking procedures were followed]); the Air Quality
Control commission has determined adoption of amendment to Section III.D. of the Air Quality Control
commission Regulation Number 1 is imperatively necessary for the preservation of the public health and
welfare and that compliance with the normal rulemaking procedural requirements of C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-
103 would be contrary to the public interest.

X.D.    Adopted January 19, 1985

Revisions to Regulation Number 5 concerning Alfalfa Dehydration Plants

“Regulation Number 5” and sections II.A.6 and III.C. of “Regulation Number 1” have previously exempted,
until January 1, 1985, existing alfalfa dehydration plants from the 20 percent opacity standard otherwise
applicable to sources of air pollution. In these amendments to “Regulation Number 5” and sections II.A.6.
and III.C. of “Regulation Number 1” the commission has extended that exemption until January 1, 1987,
in order to give the one existing alfalfa dehydration plant in Colorado an opportunity to come into
compliance with the 20 percent standard. The commission expects compliance to be achieved by that
date, and does not intend, through these amendments, to indicate that it will accept a permanent
exemption from the 20 percent standard.

X.E.    Adopted January 15, 1987

Regulations 1 and 5 concerning Alfalfa Dehydration Plant Drum Dryers




                                                                                                            54
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The Air Quality Control Commission of the State of Colorado adopted the revisions to Regulations 1 and
5 described below on January 15, 1987. This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and
Purpose is required by § 24-4-103, C.R.S. The specific statutory authority for these changes is §§ 25-7-
105, -106, and -110, C.R.S.

The Air Quality Control commission's Regulation 1 and the recently expired Regulation Number 5
provided that existing alfalfa-dehydrating plants must operate so as not to exceed 40% opacity. This
extension was adopted in January of 1985 and extended this exemption (40% opacity limit) until January
1, 1987, at which time Regulation Number 5 terminated. Existing alfalfa dehydrators then fell under the
provisions of Regulation Number 1. The effect of this is to require existing alfalfa dehydrators to meet
20% opacity limits; thus treating existing plants the same as new plants.

Mr. Graves claims to be the only operator of an existing plant which is subject to these requirements. Mr.
Graves has asked the commission to establish a 30% opacity as the standard for existing plants. In
making this request, Mr. Graves has indicated he intends to install reasonably available control
equipment as it is made known and to take other steps in revising his process in order to minimize
emissions.

X.F.    Adopted: September 15, 1987

Revision to Regulation Number 1 adding a new Paragraph A.9. to Section II.A. Opacity
Requirement Exemption

The Pueblo Army Depot has made application for an air pollution emission permit to dispose of Pershing
rocket motors in accordance with the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, as ratified. From the
test static firing of one Pershing rocket motor on May 31, 1988, the division has determined, by qualified
observer, that the opacity of the plume from this activity would exceed the standard of 20% set forth in the
Air Quality Control commission's Regulation Number 1. Therefore, the Pueblo Army Depot, in order to
obtain a permit for the destruction of the remaining rocket motors, must obtain a waiver from the above
opacity standard, or the permit will be denied. This waiver would be necessary due to the fact that there
are no presently available methods to reduce opacity to compliance levels for this source.

The commission takes this action pursuant to their regulatory authority in § 25-7-109 CRS.

The commission has adopted this rule in order to exempt the static firing of intermediate range and
shorter range Pershing Missile systems from the opacity limits contained in Regulation Number 1, so long
as such static firing results in emissions less than 250 tons per year of any one pollutant, adequate
monitoring is conducted, and air pollutants are not emitted in dangerous quantities.

Specific statutory authority for limiting the total emissions to 250 tons per year is provided by § 25-7-109
CRS. Specific statutory authority for the requirement that the source conduct air monitoring is provided by
Section 26-7-106(6) CRS; authority for requiring the source to provide the division with the results of such
monitoring is provided by 25-7-111(2) CRS; specific statutory authority for prohibiting potentially
dangerous quantities of any air pollutant is provided by Section 26-7-109(3) CRS.

X.G.    Adopted: August 19, 1993

Sections VII and VIII

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Administrative Procedures Act, CRS 1973, § 24-4-103 (4) for adopted or modified regulations.




                                                                                                          55
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The Colorado Attorney General's Office had determined that any control strategy for a non-attainment
area must be adopted as a State regulation in order for the control strategy to be enforceable by the State
of Colorado. §§ 25-7-105 and -109 of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act provides the
specific statutory authority to adopt the emission control regulations necessary to assure attainment and
maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards.

The purpose of the revised regulation is to reduce the allowable emission from the affected facilities in the
Denver PM10 non-attainment area so that future attainment and maintenance of the PM10 National
Ambient Air Quality Standard can be demonstrated. As committed in the Denver PM10 State
Implementation Plan (SIP) Element, Regulation Number 1 is being revised to include the stationary
source control measures adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control commission on May 20, 1993.
These revisions establish emission limits for PM10 precursors at Public Service Company's Cherokee,
Arapahoe, and Valmont stations. These revisions also require that oil be restricted as a back-up fuel for
natural gas at the following facilities: Public Service Company's Zuni, Valmont, and Delgany stations,
Fitzsimmons Army Medical Center, US Department of Energy's Rocky Flats Plant, Gates Rubber
company, and Coors Brewery (Golden, CO).

X.H.    Adopted: December 23, 1996

Revisions to Regulation Number 1, Section II.A.1, 4 and 10; Regulation Number 6, Part B, Section
II.C.3.a

(Regarding opacity limitations and sulfur dioxide averaging provisions for coal-fired electric utility
boilers during periods of startup, shutdown and upset.)

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Basis

Regulations 1 and 6 deal with opacity and sulfur dioxide emissions from various sources. This rule
change addresses only coal-fired electric utility boilers. The Colorado Utilities Coalition (“CUC”) requested
that the commission modify the existing regulations to provide additional flexibility in meeting the opacity
requirements and sulfur dioxide averaging, for coal-fired electric utility boilers during periods of start-up,
shutdown, upset, process modification and adjustment of control equipment.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-109(2), C.R.S., provides the authority for
the commission to adopt and modify emissions control regulations pertaining to visible pollutants,
particulates and sulfur oxides. § 25-7-109(5) authorizes the commission to grant a rule change it feels is
appropriate for periods of start-up, shutdown or malfunction or other conditions which justify temporary
relief from controls. § 25-7-105(1) provides the authority for the commission to make SIP revisions. § 25-
7-133(4)(a) provides the commission with the flexibility to determine what are necessary elements for the
SIP. The commission's action is taken pursuant to authority granted and procedures set forth in §§ 25-7-
105, 25-7-109, and 25-7-110, C.R.S.




                                                                                                           56
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Purpose

The revisions to Regulation Number 1 and Number 6 are intended to provide a specific amount of
flexibility related to compliance with opacity limitations and sulfur dioxide averaging provisions for coal-
fired electric utility boilers during periods of startup, shutdown and upset. These revisions replace what is
believed to be a problematic standard for these specific sources. CUC has demonstrated that there are
instances during which these sources cannot comply with the 30% opacity limit and the SO 2 emissions
limit during start-ups and shutdowns. Although these sources may exceed the opacity limit, CUC has
presented the commission with a study prepared by Radian Corporation, which concludes that removing
the 30% opacity limit for these sources will not result in such an increase in emissions that Colorado will
likely violate the National Ambient Air Quality Standards or other federal requirements.

CUC proposed replacement of the 30% limit with a standard that more closely mimics the federal
standard, and which these sources will have more certainty complying with, particularly for Title V
compliance certification requirements. CUC also provided an ambient air analysis related to SO 2
emissions which concluded that allowing a modification of SO 2 limitations for the periods of startup,
shutdown and malfunction would have no adverse impact on related federal requirements.

The division agreed that some flexibility in complying with the 30% opacity limit was appropriate for these
sources. The division also proposed replacing the 30% opacity limit.

Action Taken

The commission concludes that a rule change is appropriate for this category of sources and is removing
the application of the 30% opacity limitation to these sources during periods of start -up, shutdown and
upset. In addition, the commission agrees that a rule change is merited from the current treatment of SO 2
emissions during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction. The commission also concludes that this
rule can be made clearer and easier to implement through the changes adopted.

The commission adopts language substantially similar to the federal New Source Performance Standard
requirement that, during periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction, these sources, to the extent
practicable, shall maintain and operate associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent
with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In the commission's view, incorporating
this standard will provide an important balance to the removal of the 30% limit.

The federal New Source Performance Standard refers to “malfunctions”, while the commission has
adopted an upset provision. The commission finds that these two terms are substantially similar, with the
exception that an upset must be properly reported to the division to be excused. In order to avoid
confusion, the commission decided to use the term upset consistent with the Common Provisions
Regulation.

The division expressed concern that the “good practices” standard is subjective and requires substantially
more resources to enforce than a numerical limit. In addition, without the 30% limit, opacity from these
facilities could be at very high levels periods of time. The commission concurs and in this regulation
adopts the division's proposed measures to limit the overall time during which a source may exceed the
underlying 20% opacity restriction.

Good Air Pollution Control Practices

The revisions to Regulation Number 1 were developed by the Regional Air Quality Council and the
Colorado Air Pollution Control division. Comments from the affected facilities, the Colorado Attorney
General's Office and the US Environmental Protection Agency were utilized in further developing the
regulation.




                                                                                                           57
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The submittal of these revisions to the commission demonstrates the Commitment from industry, and
local and state governments, and the citizens that they represent, to implement control measures and
improve the air quality in the Denver area. The revised Regulation Number 1 will be submitted to the EPA
as part of the Denver PM10 SIP Element.

This regulation sets overall limits, by percentage of operating time, during which opacity may exceed 20%
and SO2 emissions may exceed regulatory maximums. In the commission's view, this will allow more
flexibility for the utilities without leaving them free of reasonable restriction. The percentages were
determined based on a percentile of the exceedence times for all such sources within the state.
Exceedence times were calculated based on the excess emissions reports submitted by each of the
utilities over the last several years.

These times included the periods of excess emissions due to the events listed in Regulation Number 1,
section II.A.4 [fire building, cleaning of fire boxes, soot blowing, start-up, process modification and
adjustment or occasional cleaning of control equipment], as well as shutdowns and upsets. Accordingly,
the data upon which the commission based its adoption of the percentages used to define good air
pollution control practices included all times during which a source exceeded the applicable opacity
limitation. In turn, the percentages adopted as the definition of good air pollution control practices include
all times during which a source exceeds the 20% opacity limitation. Thus, all periods of start-up,
shutdown, upset, fire building, process modification and adjustment or occasional cleaning of control
equipment will be counted against the unit's compliance with the percentages.

This general rule does not apply in two circumstances. First, start-ups following planned maintenance
outages which require significant changes at the facility are treated separately, because the commission
concluded that these infrequent events posed particular difficulties for the utilities. It appears that the
duration of these events cannot be reasonably predicted and they are not to be included in the calculation
of the source's compliance percentages. However, in order to ensure accountability of these sources
during planned outages, the commission is imposing requirements for advance notice to the division.
Advance notice will ensure that these are, indeed, planned outages. The notice must include a plan for
minimizing emissions and an estimate of the time during which controls will not be operable while the unit
is in operation, both in order to prevent inordinate startups beyond reasonable limits. During start-ups, the
source must still use good air pollution control practices. An additional definition of start-up is provided to
add certainty for all concerned about the duration of these significant planned outage start-ups. In
addition, the commission restricts the application of the planned maintenance outage exception to events
requiring significant changes at the facility, such as replacement of major facility components or
installation of new processes (e.g., installation of low NOx burners). This exception addresses changes
from which the resulting impact on plant operations cannot accurately be predicted. The exception is not
intended to allow exclusion of excess emissions resulting from routine maintenance outages, such as
annual replacement of standard equipment, from calculation of the exceedence percentage time
allowance.

Second, opacity emissions which are not a result of the combustion of fuel in the steam-generating unit
are excluded from the calculation of the compliance percentage. This approach is consistent with the
federal New Source Performance Standard found at 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart D. The commission
concludes that these emissions control measures are not intended to limit emissions from cleaning of fire
boxes, soot blowing and other activities when a unit is off-line, i.e., when no fuel is being fed to the unit. In
addition, there are technical concerns related to the ability of monitoring devices to operate accurately
when the unit is off-line.




                                                                                                              58
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The commission agrees that all of these sources can perform somewhat better and intends that the
percentages will serve as an as an achievable measure of good air pollution control practices during
these specific periods. This approach will also force poorer-performing facilities to improve their
operations and maintenance practices and bring their exceedence levels down to one more consistent
with that at other facilities. For baghouse-equipped boilers, a single percentage will suffice for the
indefinite future. However, utility units using electrostatic precipitators to control particulate emissions
present more complicated issues. Accordingly, the commission elected to provide an interim period of
approximately three years during which these units will have a higher allowance percentage.

The commission does not impose at this time a requirement for electrostatic precipitator -equipped
facilities to achieve the same exceedence percentage time allowance as baghouses. However, the
commission's ultimate goal is for ESP-equipped facilities to meet the same compliance standard as is
today imposed on baghouses.

The commission endorses the concept that the utilities conduct a study to evaluate operations and
maintenance practices and equipment modifications at ESP-equipped facilities. The purpose for this
study is to improve understanding of the operators, the division and the commission related to ESP
operations and potential improvements. The results of this study are not intended for use as evidence that
pre-study operations do not constitute good air pollution control practices.

The commission did not agree with the CUC proposal for limitations on the duration of individual incidents
of start-up and shutdown because this approach also is subjective and would require more resources to
enforce. The Sierra Club proposal, although substantially similar to that presented by the division, would
require enforcement with exceedence allowances calculated for each ESP-equipped facility. The
commission is not convinced that the benefits of a more specific exceedence allowance justify the
resources required to enforce these percentages.

The allowance percentages will give both sources and the division a clear definition and reasonable limits
to the concept of “good air pollution control practices.” This definition limits sources from arguing that
longer periods of exceedence are good practices. The definition is also intended to allow the division to
investigate the source's practices and determine whether, in light of their compliance history, process and
control equipment and operations and maintenance procedures, the source is using good practices. This
treatment of good practices will in no way prevent the division from initiating an enforcement action if the
division determines that a source is not using “good air pollution control practices,” regardless of the
amount of time the source has been in violation of the 20% opacity standard. The division may use any
available information in order to evaluate whether the source is using good practices.

Federal and State Statutory, and State Implementation Plan, Issues

The commission is cognizant that section 193 of the federal Clean Air Act precludes revisions to the state
implementation plan relating to non-attainment areas which do not provide equivalent or greater
emissions reductions to the existing provisions of the plan. Even under this federal law, however, the
commission is entitled to modify its plan to make it more cost-effective and to improve overall compliance
and implementation. The commission concludes that the division's proposal does not represent a
relaxation of the existing rule. The regulatory change removing application of the 30% opacity limit
appears on first impression to relax requirements for these units. However, by limiting the overall time
during which the units may exceed the 20% opacity limit, the commission believes this approach will
result in at least the same levels of compliance with the opacity standard and will likely result in lower
overall emissions.




                                                                                                               59
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The commission is also aware that section 110 of the federal Clean Air Act imposes additional limitations
on revisions to the state implementation plan. CUC presented information relating to the impact of its
proposal on ambient air concentrations. The commission relied on this information, although it did not
adopt the CUC proposal for defining and limiting “good air pollution practices.” The commission concludes
that the changes made in this rulemaking will not lead to increased emissions in amounts substantial
enough to interfere with the state's programs to attain and maintain the NAAQS or any other federal
requirements.

The commission also has evaluated the proposal adopted pursuant to the standards of § 25-7-105.1,
C.R.S. This rule change and the compliance levels adopted today for these limited periods for coal-fired
electric utility boilers clarify the federal narrative standard adopted, providing both the utilities and the
division with greater levels of certainty. The levels also put a practical limit on excursions by these
sources above the opacity and SO2 emissions limits and aid in ensuring that the NAAQS are attained or
maintained and that no other applicable requirements are adversely affected.

The commission has determined that continued enforcement of the Regulation Number 1 opacity
provisions were relied on in development of the Denver PM10 element of the state implementation plan.
The provisions deleted from Regulation Number 1 pertaining to electric power plants therefore must be
replaced with substantially equivalent requirements. In the past, the division's enforcement discretion has
been exercised to effectively allow 5% noncompliance by these sources. Substantial regulatory ambiguity
in the opacity limitations applicable to startup and other periods also led to uncertainty and lower
compliance levels. These revisions are substantially equivalent or better in their impact on emissions to
the results of current law and practice because that past practice led to lower compliance than the
anticipated compliance levels which will result from these changes. The commission finds that these
modifications are necessary as parts of the state implementation plan. The commission also concludes
that these revisions are not more stringent than federal requirements, considering the historical “5%
policy” used by the division and EPA. Accordingly, the commission concludes that these changes should
be forwarded to the General Assembly for review and then to EPA for inclusion in the state
implementation plan.

Finally, the commission adopts these rule changes subject to a delayed effective date insofar as the
revisions apply to sources within the Denver PM10 non-attainment area. The Environmental Protection
Agency has expressed concerns about the potential effect of this rule change on the pending approval of
the PM10 element of the state implementation plan for the Denver non-attainment area. In order to
ensure that the proposed approval of the PM10 element for the Denver non-attainment area is not
endangered, the commission designates the effective date for these revisions as they apply to sources
within this non-attainment area as the date on which EPA approves these changes as a revision to the
state implementation plan.

The commission has taken into consideration the items enumerated in § 25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S. The
commission also makes the following findings regarding the adoption of these rule changes:

        1.       The commission has considered, and has based its decision, on the reasonably
                 available, validated, reviewed and sound scientific methodologies and information made
                 available by the parties.

        2.       Where these revisions are not administrative in nature, the record supports the
                 conclusion that the provisions adopted will result in a demonstrable reduction in air
                 pollution. This reduction is accomplished because the overall exceedence levels of the
                 facilities will be lowered under the proposal adopted.




                                                                                                            60
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        3.       The revisions selected maximize the air quality benefits of the emissions standards that
                 apply. The revisions selected are the most cost-effective based on the documents
                 submitted by the parties under § 25-7-110.5, and provide the regulated community with
                 flexibility in meeting emissions limitations. Although the overall level of exceedences
                 should be reduced under this rule change, operators of the units affected will have
                 greater flexibility in start-up and shutdown of the facilities without incurring a violation. In
                 addition, the greater levels of certainty provided by these changes will allow operators of
                 affected facilities to more readily certify compliance with these applicable requirements
                 under the Title V operating permit program.

X.I.    Adopted: July 17, 1998

Revisions to Regulation Number 1, Section II

The Fort Carson Army Installation has made application for an exemption to the opacity requirements in
Regulation Number 1 during training exercises at Fort Carson and the Pinon Canon Maneuver Site that
involve the generation of fog oil smoke and the use of other obscurants. Because the purpose in using
obscurants is to train troops in situations of limited visibility, the opacity of the smoke generated is close to
100%, which exceeds the 20% standard in the Air Quality Control commissions Regulation Number 1.

As Fort Carson's training relies, in part, on smoke and obscurant usage, the potential for base closure
increases if an exemption is not granted. If closed, projected economic impact within a 50-mile radius of
the Installation is estimated at $621 million annually.

The US Army and the division have used dispersion models to estimate the air quality impacts from fog oil
generation. The impact levels for various averaging periods have been compared to National Ambient Air
Quality Standards (NAAQS) for particulate matter and the National Research Council's (NRC) 1997
guideline values for fog oil exposure.

The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's Disease Control and Epidemiology division
has reviewed the toxicological data for fog oil and compared that data to the National Research Council
(NRC) guideline values. Based on this review the division feels that under current operating practices fog
oil generation is unlikely to cause a serious public health problem.

The modeling analysis suggests that fog oil generation can cause impacts exceeding the NAAQS or NRC
guideline values within 3 kilometers of the fog oil generators. Modeled impacts greater than the NAAQS
or NRC guideline values may occur at distances of up to ten kilometers depending on the meteorological
conditions and the configuration of the fog oil generators. For example, modeling suggests that fog oil
generation at a usage rate of 1540 gallons of fog oil over a four-hour period could cause or contribute to a
NAAQS exceedence at distances of up to ten kilometers if the plume is transported in the same direction
for several hours. Typical U. S. Army fog oil generation requires mobile, as opposed to stationary, source
operations. This might limit the potential for such extensive off-site impacts.




                                                                                                               61
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The division has determined that impacts in ambient air should be below the NAAQS and NRC values if
standard U. S. Army fog oil generator operations and the mitigation measures in the exemption are
followed. These mitigation measures should also address concerns from the United States Environmental
Protection Agency that this exemption might lead to a violation of the federal National Ambient Air Quality
Standard for PM 2.5. The commission determines, pursuant to § 25-7-117, C.R.S., that the smoke
generation for the training in question is purposefully intended to be at or near 100% opacity and
therefore cannot occur in compliance with the 20% opacity limitation in Regulation Number 1.
Accordingly, control techniques are not desirable for this emission of air pollutants. This proposed revision
to the state implementation plan is consistent with the legislative policy set forth in § 25-7-102; and
adoption of this limited exception is consistent with the requirements of section 110 of the federal act.
Regarding this element, the commission concludes, based on the modeling information presented, that
the generation of fog oil smoke will not cause or contribute to a NAAQS violation at the reservation
boundary if the proponent operates in compliance with the limitations placed on this exemption. As
additional toxicological data on fog oil is expected over the next few years, the Air Quality Control
commission will revisit this exemption based on an evaluation of the Fort Leonard Wood fog oil study, but
will not be limited to this report. This report should evaluate the Fort Carson fog oil exemption in Air
Quality Control commission's Regulation Number 1 with regard to the protection of the public health in
Colorado.

The commission takes this action pursuant to their regulatory authority in § 25-7-109 and § 25-7-117.

Findings

This limited exception to the opacity restriction in Regulation Number 1 is not intended to reduce air
pollution; accordingly, the commission makes no findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. Pursuant to §
25-7-133(3), C.R.S., the commission concludes that this limited exemption is not required by federal law
nor is it more stringent than federal law.

X.J.    Adopted: April 19, 2001

Revisions to Regulation Number 1, Section VII, concerning emission limits for electric generating
stations

The April 19, 2001 amendments to Regulation Number 1, section VII were adopted to support the
redesignation of the Denver metropolitan area to an attainment area for particulate matter. The rule
amendments codify emission limitations and shut down requirements for the purpose of incorporating
such limitations and requirements into the federally enforceable SIP.

Basis and Purpose

One of the emission limitations used to show maintenance of the NAAQS (the 20% SO 2 limit for the
Public Service Company of Colorado Cherokee facility) was previously found only in a state permit; it was
not in a regulation. (Public Service Company is now doing business as Xcel Energy.) In 1997 EPA
incorporated the permit for the Cherokee facility, together with the permits for several other stationary
sources, into the SIP by reference. The EPA asserts that such incorporation is necessary to the extent
the State relies on emission limits in the permits to demonstrate attainment of the PM-10 NAAQS. The
incorporation of the permits into the SIP means that any revision to such permits must go through the
extensive SIP revision process. The maintenance demonstration also relies on NOx limitations at the
plant. NOx emissions are already subject to federal regulations that achieve the same result, albeit with a
different averaging time and calculation method. EPA, however, has asserted that the limitation must be
expressed as a short-term limit incorporated into the SIP. The division disagrees with EPA's interpretation
of federal law, but does not believe that the circumstances warrant challenging EPA's position. Public
Service Company has consented to the inclusion of certain SO 2 and NOx emission limitations (calculated
on a rolling thirty-day average basis) in the regulation and the SIP in order to resolve the matter with EPA.
EPA has indicated that these limitations are adequate to resolve its concerns and, with them as a
substitute, will agree that the Cherokee and all other permits may be removed from the SIP.




                                                                                                          62
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Therefore, all permit limits and conditions contained in permits for the following facilities are specifically
removed from the SIP: Trigen-Colorado Energy; Public Service Company; Purina Mills; Electron
Corporation; Ultramar Diamond Shamrock; Conoco Refinery; Rocky Mountain Bottle; and Robinson Brick.
A SIP revision shall not be required to modify permit limits and conditions for these facilities. Any
increases in emission limits contained in Regulation Number 1 that are also incorporated into the SIP
would require a SIP revision.

For these reasons, the commission has determined that it is appropriate to include the requirements in
the SIP and the regulation. Public Service Company has asked, and the commission agrees, that these
new emission limitations should not become effective unless and until EPA approves the SIP.

In 1998, the commission approved a voluntary emission reduction agreement between Public Service
Company and the division pursuant to C.R.S. §25-7-1201 et seq. Under that agreement as amended,
Public Service Company agreed, among other things, that it would permanently shutdown and retire
Arapahoe Units 1 and 2 on January 1, 2003. This retirement of these two units was also used to show
maintenance of the NAAQS. Despite the fact that the retirement is an enforceable commitment of the
company under state law, EPA objected to the assumption that Arapahoe Units 1 and 2 will shutdown in
2003.

The EPA asserts that the maintenance plan must include a federally enforceable provision mandating the
closures. Again, the division disagrees with the EPA's position and believes that it may properly rely upon
the provisions of the voluntary agreement to demonstrate maintenance of the standard. However, again
in order to resolve the disagreement with the EPA, the Public Service Company consented to the
inclusion of the shutdown requirements in the State regulations and the federally enforceable SIP.

In the voluntary agreement, the retirement of Arapahoe Units 1 and 2 does not forbid Public Service
Company (or some other person) from reusing the Arapahoe 1 and 2 plant site or equipment, provided
that such reuse is subject to new source permitting requirements. The Company, as is its right under
C.R.S. §25-7-1203(6), consented to the EPA's desire to include the retirement in the SIP only if the SIP
and the state regulations recognize that such reuse is allowed subject to the new source permitting
requirements. Therefore, the commission has determined that language in the proposed regulation
allowing for such reuse is necessary and appropriate. This language will allow PSCO or some other party
to use the Arapahoe Unit 1 or 2 equipment or plant site for the construction and operation of a new
source, provided that, depending on its level of emissions, the new source obtains the applicable minor or
major source permit.

The Company also asked that the regulatory SIP provision should not apply if EPA disapproves the
maintenance plan and redesignation request. Therefore, the regulation expressly states that it will take
effect upon EPA approval of the redesignation request. This provision in the regulation is not to be
construed to mean that approval of redesignation request is required in order for the voluntary agreement
between the State and the Public Service Company to take effect. The regulation is not intended to
supercede or modify the agreement. The agreement shall be effective whether or not the regulation takes
effect. The commission adopted the regulation in order to satisfy EPA's demand to incorporate the
shutdown requirement in the SIP, without incorporating the entire agreement into the SIP. Only the
provisions applicable to the Arapahoe 1 and 2 retirement described in the regulation have been
incorporated into the SIP.

Statutory Authority

Specific statutory authority to redesignate areas to attainment is provided in § 25-7-107, C.R.S. (1999).
The authority to adopt the regulations necessary to maintain the NAAQS is set out at § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I).
C.R.S. The authority to control particulate emissions is set out in § 25-7-109(2)(b), C.R.S.




                                                                                                           63
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8

§ 25-7-110.8 requires the commission to make specific findings concerning any regulation intended to
reduce air pollution. The April 2001 amendments to Regulation Number 1 put into regulation pre-existing
requirements. Although the regulations change the averaging time for SO 2 and NOx limitations, and thus
appear to make the existing requirements more stringent, the units were already in compliance with the
revised standards based on the shorter averaging times. Thus, some of the determinations required by §
25-7-110.8 are irrelevant. To address the remaining, applicable requirements of 25-7-110.8, the
commission determines that: (1) all validated, reviewed and sound scientific methodologies and
information made available by interested parties has been considered; and (2) the amendments adopted
represent the most cost-effective option.

X.K.    Adopted: August 16, 2001

Revisions to Regulation Number 1: Sections II.A. 1-10; II.B.3., II.C.2.d.; Sections III.A.1.d., A.3.;
III.B.4.a. & b.; III.C.2-4; Section IV.I.; Section V; Section VI.A.f.; Section VI.B.2. and VI.B.4.(iv);
VI.C.1.; Sections VII.A.1, A.2. & A.3.; Sections VIII.A. & E.

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Act, § 25-7-109, C.R.S., provides the commission the authority to adopt and revise rules and
regulations that are consistent with state policy regarding air pollution and with federal recommendations
and requirements.

Basis

Regulation Number 1 deals with opacity, particulate, and sulfur dioxide emissions from various sources.
This rule revises the title of the regulation, deletes obsolete parts of this regulation and conforms the
regulation to the “Credible Evidence” rule adopted by the commission on April 19, 2001 (refer to Common
Provisions Regulation, section II.I.). The rule also deletes section II.A.10. and related provisions
concerning good air pollution practices for coal-fired utility boilers. Finally, the rule revises the
methodology and calculation for emissions from multiple fuel burning units ducted through a common
stack in section III.A.1.d.

Purpose

In April 2001, the commission adopted the “Credible Evidence” rule into its Common Provisions
Regulation, section II.I. That rule allows for the use of any credible evidence for the purpose of submitting
Title V compliance certifications or establishing whether a source has violated or is in violation of any
emissions standard contained in any regulation that has been submitted to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. The revisions to Regulation Number 1 remove conflicting language from Regulation
Number 1, and clarify that the EPA Method 9 is the approved visible emissions reference test method for
the credible evidence rule. The opacity requirements in Regulation Number 1 were adopted based on the
use of Method 9 for determining compliance with such requirements. This action also clarifies that, for
purposes of compliance determinations, the particulate emissions standards found in Regulation Number
1 do not include the condensable or “back half” portion of the emissions train.




                                                                                                           64
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


In 1992, § 25-7-109(8), C.R.S., was added to the Act to prohibit the regulation of most agricultural
activities. In some circumstances, however, agricultural open burning may be subjected to commission
regulation (§ 25-7-123, C.R.S.). In order to address the confusion regarding open burning of animal parts
and carcasses, the rule now expressly states that the open burning of animal parts and carcasses is not
exempt from permit requirements. A special allowance to conduct open burning activities without a permit
is provided where the State Agricultural commission declares a public health emergency or a contagious
or infectious outbreak of a disease that imperils livestock and diseased carcasses must be destroyed on
weekends or holidays. In this case, voice mail messages must be left with the division and any local
health department, and adequate notice must be provided to neighboring residences, schools, and
businesses prior to burning. This allows the division to promptly respond to complaints about smoke from
these activities and provides an opportunity for the neighboring community to take steps to minimize
smoke exposure, e.g., close windows and schedule indoor activities.

Certain provisions that regulate “grandfathered” sources that do not exist in Colorado, such as wigwam
burners, static firing of Pershing missiles at the Pueblo Army Depot. and standards for iron and steel plant
operations, are removed. Rocky Mountain Steel Mills is the only iron and steel plant in Colorado, and only
those provisions that are relevant to this operation have been retained. Provisions regulating coke ovens
at steel mills, blast ovens, basic oxygen furnaces, and sinter plants have been removed as obsolete.

Section II.A.10, and related provisions found in II.A.4. and VI.B., concerning emissions from coal-fired
utility boilers, is removed. These provisions were added in 1996, and have never been approved by the
U.S. EPA. However, the commission reaffirms the findings in the Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory
Authority and Purpose associated with the 1996 rulemaking. There are technical concerns related to the
ability of continuous opacity monitors to obtain accurate readings during periods when the boilers, fans
and process equipment at coal-fired electric utility plants are off. As an alternative approach, the
commission has proposed adoption of Affirmative Defense Provisions to be added to the Common
Provisions Regulation to recognize the issues related to periods of excess emissions during startup and
shutdown conditions of coal-fired utility boilers and other sources. Consequently, leaving these provisions
in Regulation Number 1 renders coal-fired utility boilers subject to federal opacity requirements and
conflicting and confusing state-only requirements. The commission wishes to remove such conflict and
confusion.

The rule revises section III.A.1.d. to more accurately calculate emissions from multiple fuel burning units
ducting to a common stack (because it is not possible to sum the pounds per 10 6 British thermal units, as
is currently reflected in the regulation).

Regarding the approval of alternative performance test methods in sections III.A.2. and III.C.3., the
commission intends that the existing practice of the division in consulting with the owner or operator of a
source regarding appropriate alternative test methods will continue. Those consultations should include
discussions why the reference method or other alternative methods are inappropriate. The commission
recognizes that the division must approve any alternative test method but that the owner or operator of a
source may appeal that determination to the commission.

In section VII.,A.1., A.2. and A.3., the Public Service Compliance date of January 1, 1995 has been
deleted as obsolete. In addition, emissions limitations are placed on the Valmont Electric Generating
Station in Boulder, Colorado, Units 1, 2, 3, and 4. In reality, Valmont only has a Unit 5, and thus revisions
are made to reflect this reality.

In section VIII, fuel restrictions are placed on specified sources. The regulation is revised to reflect a
name change of a source and to revise the example of a reporting tool referenced in this section.

The Regulation Number 1 revisions adopted by the Air Quality Control commission as described above
will be submitted to the EPA as part of the State Implementation Plan.




                                                                                                             65
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


APPENDIX A

Method for Measuring Opacity from Fugitive Particulate Emission Sources

       a.      Principle and Applicability

               (i)     Principle. The opacity of emissions from fugitive particulate emission sources is
                       determined visually by a qualified observer.

               (ii)    Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the opacity of
                       emissions from fugitive particulate emission sources and for qualifying observers
                       for visually determining opacity of emissions; provided, however, this method
                       shall not be used when wind velocities exceed 30 m.p.h. as determined by
                       records from the nearest official station of the U.S. Weather Service, by
                       interpretation of surface weather maps by a qualified meteorologist, or by use of
                       one or more anemometers at the site. The division shall use anemometers where
                       practicable.

       b.      Procedures. The observer qualified in accordance with Section c. of this method shall use
               the following procedures for visually determining the opacity of emissions:

               (i)     Position. The qualified observer shall stand at a distance sufficient to provide a
                       clear view of the emissions with the sun oriented in the 140° sector to his back.
                       Consistent with maintaining the above requirement, the observer shall, as much
                       as possible, make his observations from a position such that his line of vision is
                       approximately perpendicular to the plume direction. The observer's line of sight
                       should not include more than one plume at a time. Where the plumes from more
                       than one source have been combined such that it is not possible to observe the
                       emissions from a subject source alone this method shall not be applied to the
                       “combined plume” to determine the opacity of emissions from any of the
                       contributing sources. Emissions from rock or mineral drilling, crushing,
                       conveying, screening, and storing are evaluated in the following manner:

                       (A)      Drilling. Emissions from drilling operations are evaluated at the point at
                                which they are released from the drilling device or from the drill hole.

                       (B)      Crushing. Emissions included at this evaluation point are released as
                                material is discharged from the primary and secondary crushing
                                machines. Observations are performed on the same elevation as the
                                discharge if possible.

                       (C)      Conveying. Visible emissions are evaluated as material is discharged at
                                conveyer belt transfer points and loading points. Evaluation shall occur at
                                the same elevation as the discharge if possible.

                       (D)      Screening. Visible emissions are evaluated as material is discharged
                                from the screen into the chutes. The observer shall obtain an observation
                                point as close to the same elevation of the screens as possible.

                       (E)      Storage. Observations are performed at ground level.

                       (F)      In operations involving rock or mineral drilling, moisture content of the
                                material plays an important part in type and quantity of visible emissions.
                                Therefore, any moisture in the feedstock or addition of moisture to the
                                process should be noted on the field data sheet.




                                                                                                             66
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


                     (G)      Emissions from all other sources of fugitive particulate emissions subject
                              to this regulation shall be evaluated in a manner consistent with the
                              above procedures.

             (ii)    Field Records. The observer shall record the name of the plant, emission
                     location, type facility, observer's name and affiliation, and the date on a field data
                     sheet. The time, estimated distance to the emission location, approximate wind
                     direction, estimated wind speed, description of the sky condition (presence and
                     color of clouds), and plume background are recorded on a field data sheet at the
                     time opacity readings are initiated and completed.

             (iii)   Observations. Opacity observations shall be made at the point of greatest opacity
                     in the plume and with a background of contrasting color. The observer shall not
                     look continuously at the plume, but instead shall observe the plume momentarily
                     at 15-second intervals. The observer shall record the approximate distance from
                     the emission outlet to the point in the plume at which the observations are made.

             (iv)    Recording Observations. Opacity observations shall be recorded to the nearest 5
                     percent at 15-second intervals on an observational record sheet. A minimum of
                     24 observations shall be recorded. Each momentary observation recorded shall
                     be deemed to represent the average opacity of emissions for a 15-second
                     period.

             (v)     Data Reduction. Opacity shall be determined as an average of 24 consecutive
                     observations recorded at 15-second intervals. Divide the observations recorded
                     on the record sheet into sets of 24 consecutive observations. A set is composed
                     of any 24 consecutive observations. Sets need not be consecutive in time and in
                     no case shall two sets overlap. For each set of 24 observations, calculate the
                     average by summing the opacity of the 24 observations and dividing this sum by
                     24. If an applicable standard specifies an averaging time requiring more or less
                     than 24 observations, calculate the average for all observations made during the
                     specified time period. Record the average opacity on a record sheet.

      c.     Qualifications and Testing

             (i)     Certification requirements. To receive certification as a qualified observer, a
                     candidate must be tested and demonstrate the ability to assign opacity readings
                     in 5 percent increments to 25 different black plumes and 25 different white
                     plumes, with an error not to exceed 15 percent opacity on any one reading and
                     an average error not to exceed 7.5 percent opacity in each category. Candidates
                     shall be tested according to the procedures described in paragraph c. (ii). Smoke
                     generators used pursuant to this paragraph shall be equipped with a smoke
                     meter which meets the requirements of paragraph c.(iii).

             The certification shall be valid for a period of six months, at which time the qualification
             procedure must be repeated by the observer in order to retain certification.




                                                                                                            67
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


             (ii)    Certification Procedure. The certification test consists of showing the candidate a
                     complete run of 50 plumes - 25 black plumes and 25 white plumes - produced by
                     a smoke generator. Plumes within each set of 25 black and 25 white runs shall
                     be presented in random order. The candidate assigns an opacity value to each
                     plume and records his observation on a suitable form. At the completion of each
                     run of 50 readings, the score of the candidate is determined. If a candidate fails
                     to qualify, the complete run of 50 readings must be repeated in any retest. The
                     smoke test may be administered as part of a smoke school or training program,
                     and may be preceded by training or familiarization runs of the smoke generator
                     during which candidates are shown black and white plumes of known opacity.

             (iii)   Smoke Generator Specifications. Any smoke generator used for the purposes of
                     paragraph c. (ii) shall be equipped with a smoke meter installed to measure
                     opacity across the diameter of the smoke generator stack. The smoke meter
                     output shall display in stack opacity based upon a path length equal to the stack
                     exit diameter, on a full 0 to 100 percent chart recorder scale. The smoke meter
                     optional design and performance shall meet the specifications shown in Table 1.
                     The smoke meter shall be calibrated as prescribed in paragraph c. (iii)(A) prior to
                     the conduct of each smoke reading test. At the completion of each test, the zero
                     and span drift shall be checked and if the drift exceeds 1 percent opacity, the
                     condition shall be corrected prior to conducting any subsequent test runs. The
                     smoke meter shall be demonstrated, at the time of installation, to meet the
                     specifications listed in Table 1. This demonstration shall be repeated following
                     any subsequent repair or replacement of the photocell or associated electronic
                     circuitry including the chart recorder or output meter, or every 6 months,
                     whichever occurs first.

             Calibration. The smoke meter is calibrated after allowing a minimum of 30 minutes warm-
             up by alternately producing simulated opacity of 0 percent and 100 percent. When stable
             responses at 0 percent or 100 percent is noted, the smoke meter is adjusted to produce
             an output of 0 percent or 100 percent, as appropriate. This calibration shall be repeated
             until stable 0 percent or 100 percent readings are produced without adjustment.
             Simulated 0 percent and 100 percent opacity values may be produced by alternately
             switching the power to the light source on and off while the smoke generator is not
             producing smoke.



                                                      Table 1

                                Smoke Meter Design and Performance Specifications

            Parameter                                                  Specification

 a.           Light Source                          Incandescent lamp operated at nominal rate voltage

          Spectral Response of
 b.                                       Photopic (daylight spectral response of the human eye - reference d(iii))
                Photocell

 c.          Angle of View                                       15° maximum total angle

 d.     Angle of Projection Angle                                   15° maximum total

 e.         Calibration Error                                      3% opacity, maximum




                                                                                                       68
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission



                                                         Table 1

                                 Smoke Meter Design and Performance Specifications

                Parameter                                                  Specification

     f.          Zero and Span                                        1% opacity, maximum

 g.             Response Time                                              Five seconds

B.        Smoke Meter Evaluation. The smoke meter design and performance are to be evaluated as
          follows:

          (1)    Light Source. Verify from manufacturer's data and from voltage measurements made at
                 the lamp, as installed, that the lamp is operated within 6 percent of the nominal rated
                 voltage.

          (2)    Spectral Response of Photocell. Verify from manufacturer's data that the photocell has a
                 photopic response; i.e., the spectral sensitivity of the cell shall closely approximate this
                 standard spectral-luminosity curve for photopic vision that is referenced in (b) of Table 1.

          (3)    Angle of View. Check construction geometry to ensure that the total angle of view of the
                 smoke plume, as seen by the photocell, does not exceed 15°. The total angle of view
                 may be calculated from: ?=2 tan d/2L where ?=total angle of view; d=the sum of the
                 photocell diameter + the diameter of the limiting aperture; and L=the distance from the
                 photocell to the limiting aperture. The limiting aperture is the point in the path between
                 the photocell and the smoke plume where the angle of view is most restricted. In smoke
                 generator smoke meters this is normally an orifice plate.

          (4)    Angle of Projection. Check construction geometry to ensure that the total angle of
                 projection of the lamp on the smoke plume does not exceed 15°. The total angle of
                 projection may be calculated from: ?=2 tan-1 d/2L, where ?=total angle of projection;
                 d=the sum of the length of the lamp filament and the diameter of the limiting aperture;
                 and L=the distance from the lamp to the limiting aperture.

          (5)    Calibration Error. Using neutral-density filters of known opacity, check the error between
                 the actual response and the theoretical linear response of the smoke meter. This check is
                 accomplished by first calibrating the smoke meter according to (1) and then inserting a
                 series of three neutral-density filters of nominal opacity of 20, 50, and 75 percent in the
                 smoke meter path length. Filters calibrated within 2 percent shall be used. Care should
                 be taken when inserting the filters to prevent stray light from affecting the meter. Make a
                 total of five nonconsecutive readings for each filter. The maximum error on any one
                 reading shall be 3 percent opacity.

          (6)    Zero and Span Drift. Determine the zero and span drift by calibrating and operating the
                 smoke generator in a normal manner over a 1-hour period. The drift is measured by
                 checking the zero and span at the end of this period.

          (7)    Response Time. Determine the response time by producing the series of five simulated 0
                 percent and 100 percent opacity values and observing the time required to reach stable
                 response. Opacity values of 0 percent and 100 percent may be simulated by alternately
                 switching the power to the light source off and on while the smoke generator is not
                 operating.




                                                                                                           69
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


References

       (i)     Air Pollution Control District Rules and Regulations, Los Angeles County Air Pollution
               Control District, Regulation IV Prohibitions, Rule 50.

       (ii)    Wefsburd, Melving L., Field Operations and Enforcement Manual for Air, U.S.
               Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, N.C., APTD-1100, August
               1972, pp. 4.1-4.36.

       (iii)   Condon, E. U., and Oldshaw, H., Handbook of Physics, McGraw Hill Co., N.Y., N.Y.
               1958, Table 3.1, p. 6-52.

       (iv)    EPA Visible Emission Inspection Procedures, August 1975.

APPENDIX B

Method of Measurement of Off-Property Transport of Fugitive Particulate Emissions

       a.      Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the off-property transport
               of fugitive particulate emissions sources covered by Section III.D.2 of this regulation;
               provided, however, this method shall not be used when wind velocities exceed 30 m.p.h.
               as determined by records from the nearest official station of the U.S. Weather Service, by
               interpretation of surface weather maps by a qualified meteorologist, or by use of one or
               more anemometers at the site. The division shall use anemometers where practicable.

       b.      Procedure

               (i)     Position. The observer shall stand at a distance sufficient to provide a clear view
                       of the emissions with the sun oriented in the 140° sector to his back. The
                       observer shall position himself off said property so as to be able to sight along a
                       line which does not cross the property of emission origination. Consistent with
                       maintaining the above requirements, the observer shall, to the extent possible,
                       make his observations from a position such that his line of vision is approximately
                       perpendicular to the plume direction.

               (ii)    Field Records. The observer shall record the name of the plant, emission
                       location, type facility, observer's name and affiliation, and the date on a field data
                       sheet. The time, estimated distance and the emission location, approximate wind
                       direction, estimated wind speed, description of the sky condition (presence and
                       color of clouds), and plume background are recorded on a field data sheet at the
                       time readings are initiated and completed.

               (iii)   Observations. Observations shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
                       this Appendix B sighting along a line which does not cross the property of
                       emission origination and two such observations of fugitive particulate emissions
                       transported off the property of at least 15 seconds in duration [within 24 hours]
                       must be made and must be separated by at least fifteen (15) minutes.

X.L.   Adopted: January 17, 2002

Revisions to Colorado Air Quality Control commission Regulation Number 1 January 17, 2002




                                                                                                           70
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5 and implements parts of §§ 25-7-106(7) and (8), 25-7-114.7
and 25-7-123, C.R.S.

Basis

These rule revisions implement the provisions of Senate Bill 01-214 and relocate, update and reorganize
existing provisions of Regulation Number 1 relating to open burning into Regulation Number 9. Regulation
Number 9 deals solely with open burning activities. This new regulation contains permitting, monitoring,
reporting and fee provisions, as well as requirements particular to significant users of prescribed fire.

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, §§ 25-7-109(2)(e) and 25-7-123, C.R.S., provides
the authority for the commission to adopt and modify a program including emissions control regulations to
control burning activities. §§ 25-7-106(7) and 25-7-106(8), 25-7-114.7(2)(a)(III) and 25-7-123, C.R.S., set
forth specific requirements relating to activities by significant users of prescribed fire, including open
burning activities by federal land managers. The commission's action is taken pursuant to procedures set
forth in §§ 25-7-105, 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Purpose

Open Burning

The focus of SB 01-214 is on open burning activities by significant users of prescribed fire. Addressing
open burning issues is necessary in order to address emissions from natural and prescribed fires. The
Grand Canyon Visibility Transport commission identified these fires as having enough episodic impact on
visibility at class I areas to overwhelm progress made through other emission control measures. The
commission views reduction of visibility impairment from fires as an important component in achieving
federal and state visibility goals. This regulation should ensure that users of prescribed fire consider air
pollution impacts in making determinations whether, and under what conditions, to use fire for grassland
or forest management.

Permitting

The regulation continues the existing prohibition on open burning absent a permit from the division or a
local agency. The exemptions from this requirement also remain largely the same. In particular,
agricultural open burning activity does not require a permit.

The regulation specifies factors that the division must consider in deciding whether, and under what
conditions, to issue a burning permit. These factors differ depending on the type of permit applicable to
the proposed activity.

General open burning permits are the basic permits for most burning activities. General permits require
that an applicant use best smoke management techniques to reduce or eliminate smoke impacts on the
health and welfare of the public. Although the regulation includes a partial listing of methods to minimize
fire emissions and smoke impacts, the commission intends that the division will exercise its discretion to
achieve the goals of this regulation without imposing unreasonable conditions. General open burning may
be delegated by the division to local counties.




                                                                                                            71
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The next category of fire addressed by this regulation is planned ignition fires, which are a subset of
prescribed fires for grassland and forestland management. The commission decided to establish an
emissions and smoke de minimus threshold below which a permit applicant must only obtain a general
open burning permit. For fires that will exceed that threshold, applicants intending to initiate a fire must
obtain a permit for a planned ignition fire. Permits for this type of fire must address additional concerns
beyond those applicable to general open burning activities. The commission listed factors for division
consideration in determining whether, and under what conditions, to issue a permit. This list is not
exclusive and the division may incorporate in permits additional conditions if it finds them necessary to
minimize the impacts of fire on visibility and on public health and welfare. These factors focus on
identifying and minimizing impacts to smoke-sensitive receptors. In addition, planned ignition permit
conditions should ensure that the permittee will take appropriate action to ensure that the fire remains
within the terms of the permit or is managed so as to return it within those terms, or that the permittee will
suppress the fire if compliance with permit terms cannot otherwise be achieved.

Unplanned ignition fire permits offer persons a mechanism to use fire for grassland or forest management
even though the precise time and location of a particular prescribed fire cannot be anticipated. These
permits generally will apply to larger parcels of land, in some portion of which unplanned ignition may
occur. The purpose of this permit type is to determine before ignition the conditions under which the fire
may be used for resource benefit. As with planned ignition fires, permit conditions should ensure that the
permittee will take appropriate action to ensure that the fire remains within the terms of the permit or is
managed so as to return it within those terms, or that the permittee will suppress the fire if compliance
with permit terms cannot otherwise be achieved.

This regulation focuses on fires that a person intends to use for a beneficial purpose, such as grassland
or forest management. The commission distinguished between those fires and wildfires. Wildfires are
beyond the scope of this regulation and no permitting requirements apply to a land manager within whose
jurisdiction a wildfire occurs.

The commission also concluded that a public comment opportunity should be available regarding fires
with a high smoke risk. The commission intends that a high smoke risk rating be equivalent to a rating of
41 or greater from the draft Smoke Risk Rating Worksheet prepared by the division in conjunction with
some users of prescribed fire and attached to this Statement of Basis and Purpose as Attachment A. The
commission recognizes that the division and users of prescribed fire may find it appropriate to revise the
smoke risk rating methodology in the future. If this is done, the commission intends that what constitutes
a high smoke risk burn will consider at least the same factors as in Attachment A, and the point at which a
fire becomes a high smoke risk should be equivalent to a rating of 41 on Attachment A.

The division will determine which fires have a high smoke risk through consideration of the factors
reflected in Attachment A. If, after considering these factors, the division concludes that the fire has a high
smoke risk, it will allow the public thirty days in which to submit comments regarding whether a permit
should be issued and what conditions are appropriate for inclusion in the permit. For planned ignition
prescribed fires, the notice will include information about location of the fire, expected burn dates,
expected duration of the fire, potential emissions, and potential air quality and visibility impacts at smoke
sensitive receptors. The commission intends that the division either add appropriate conditions or
combine permits to prevent circumvention of the public comment requirement, should a permit applicant
submit separate applications that may have the effect of dividing burns that are more appropriately
considered together. This comment opportunity is subject to the commission's Procedural Rules and
includes the rights to a public comment hearing provided in those Rules. The comment opportunity does
not include a right to an adjudicatory hearing to appeal issuance of a permit, as only the permit applicant
may request such a hearing. Persons would still have recourse to seek judicial review of permits pursuant
to the Administrative Procedures Act.




                                                                                                            72
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Significant users of prescribed fire

Senate Bill 01-214 imposes on significant users of prescribed fire additional requirements to ensure that
that those users consider air quality impacts in making decisions about when, and under what conditions,
they will use fire for grassland or forest management. Senate Bill 01-214 defined a significant user of
prescribed fire as a person or agency that collectively manages or owns more than 10,000 acres of land
and that uses prescribed fire. The commission enlarged on the part of this definition dealing with use of
prescribed fire by establishing a minimum activity level based on PM 10 emissions during a calendar year.
The commission concludes that users of prescribed fire at levels below this threshold do not have
significant enough an impact on visibility and air quality to justify their inclusion in this part of the smoke
management program. This provision will focus the regulatory requirements and the resources of the
division and others on the prescribed fires with the greatest potential impact on visibility and human
health and welfare. The commission did not establish a de minimus threshold for other open burns, as
even small fires intended to dispose of trash, rubbish and similar materials may have disproportionate
impacts on local air quality.

The regulation imposes additional duties on significant users of prescribed fire, consistent with specific
requirements in SB 01-214. § 25-7-106(8)(b), C.R.S., requires that significant users submit planning
documents to the commission for comment and recommendations. This section also anticipates a hearing
on the plans to allow public input. This public hearing requirement is similar to public hearing options
applicable to major stationary source permitting. Public input on regulatory compliance and permits for
major sources is important to public confidence in air pollution control efforts, particularly for long-term
planning documents.

The commission will hold public hearings to review the planning documents and may make comments
and recommendations regarding the plans. Open burning permits for general, planned and unplanned
ignition fires can only be issued to significant users of prescribed fire if the permit is consistent with the
comments and recommendations of the commission. The commission intends that, wherever possible,
the division will issue a permit with appropriate conditions in order to meet this requirement, rather than
denying the permit altogether. This approach recognizes the value of prescribed fire in grassland and
forestland management, but ensures that the air quality goals of SB 01-214 and this regulation are
adequately protected.

The commission defined planning documents and tailored the applicable regulatory requirements to focus
submittals and commission review on the process used by a significant user of prescribed fire, rather than
on the results of that process in a specific instance. The commission does not intend to challenge land
use decisions made by the land manager. The purpose of the commission comments and
recommendations will be to ensure that the land manager adequately considers air quality impacts when
making decisions whether, and under what conditions, to use prescribed fire. The commission planning
document review will focus on how a significant user of prescribed fire will meet the state air quality
protection standard expressed in § 25-7-106(7)(e), C.R.S.

Planning documents should summarize the decision process by which the land manager identifies and
selects among alternative treatment methods for fuel reduction. The documents should provide a specific
description relevant to accomplishment of the state air quality goal expressed in § 25-7-106(7)(e), C.R.S.
This requirement will focus the land manager decision-making process on the goals of Senate Bill 01-214.

The commission recognizes that planning documents will vary in their level of detail and sophistication in
describing decision mechanisms used by land managers, particularly during the initial set of commission
reviews. commission comments and recommendations may extend to beneficial changes in planning
documents as well as improvements in the land manager planning process related to consideration of the
state air quality goal.




                                                                                                                 73
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Specific permit conditions may be excluded from a permit if a federal land manager asserts that a federal
statute specifically prohibits the compliance with the condition. In adopting this regulation, the commission
made no evaluation whether any particular federal statute or permit condition may justify exclusion of a
permit condition. Nevertheless, section 118 of the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §7418, subjects
federal agencies engaging in activities resulting, or which may result, in discharge of air pollutants to state
requirements on control and abatement of air pollution “in the same manner, and to the same extent as
any nongovernmental entity.” This waiver of federal sovereign immunity allows states to subject federal
agencies to any substantive, procedural, permitting, fee or any other requirement. The Colorado General
Assembly enacted §25-7-106(7), C.R.S., pursuant to §118 and directed that this subsection be construed
to exercise the full extent of the state's authority regarding pollution from federal facilities. The
commission intends these revisions to comport with §118 and to exercise the state's authority to its full
extent. The division should consider this intent in deciding whether a federal statute specifically prohibits
imposition of a particular permit condition.

The rule also establishes a means for dealing with outdated plans or documents. The commission chose
to view a plan as being outdated upon expiration of the period for which the plan itself states it is
applicable, up to ten years. The commission may make comments or recommendations in the review
process that urge a shorter applicable period than anticipated in the planning document. Any such
comments will recognize applicable constraints on preparation of updated documents, such as the
provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act.

The regulation establishes a means for dealing with lands acquired by a significant user of prescribed fire
after the commission reviews an initial or later version of a planning document. The commission
concluded that requiring changes and further review of planning documents whenever a significant user
acquires land would unduly increase the burdens of the review process on the commission, the division
and the land managers. In general, the commission anticipates addressing planning documents for these
lands at the next regular review, so long as the acquired lands will be managed in largely the same way
as those already addressed by the commission. Where there will be a substantial difference in
management of the acquired lands, the commission concluded that the land manager must submit
planning documents to address the anticipated management.

Fees and Monitoring

Senate Bill 01-214 directed the commission to include within its smoke management program provisions
for fees necessary to pay for administration of the program. Since the General Assembly granted the
direct authority to develop a fee program for the smoke management program, the commission is not
required to utilize the fee mechanism applicable to traditional stationary sources. The commission chose
to apportion the cost of administering the program among users of prescribed fire rather than relying on
traditional emissions fees. In part, this conclusion was due to the unique characteristics of this emission
source category including highly variable emissions from one year to the next. Therefore, the commission
concluded that the traditional emission fee approach would result in substantially greater administrative
burdens for both the division and for users of prescribed fire. The methodology adopted combines the
proportion of the total number of permits and total PM10 emissions of a particular user to determine the
appropriate fraction of the program cost payable by that user. This approach will provide an equitable
distribution of the costs of administering the common elements of the program. The commission intends
that fees paid by stationary sources will not be used to pay any portion of the smoke management
program costs.




                                                                                                            74
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The total administrative cost of $129,646.45 at the outset is specified in an appendix to the regulation and
the commission intends that any change to it or the distribution methodology occur only through a
properly noticed public rule-making hearing before the commission. To that end, the cost is included in
the regulation as the regulatory “fee.” The division cost for program administration will be recalculated
annually and reported to the commission each August. If the total cumulative dollar difference between
the cost reflected in the regulation and the division's annual calculation exceeds five percent, the division
will seek a fee change through a commission rulemaking. The “total cumulative dollar difference” between
the regulatory fee and the annual cost will be calculated considering personnel and indirect and operating
costs associated with the program, and the cumulative dollar difference from the previous year. This
calculation will be performed substantially in accordance with the Colorado Smoke Management Program
Cost and Fee Calculation Template (Attachment B). The commission also intends that the actual revenue
collected be reported annually. If collections are consistently below projections, the division shall seek an
appropriate fee adjustment consistent with the shortfall in revenue.

In addition, the commission imposed a fee pursuant to § 25-7-114.7(2)(A)(III), C.R.S., to cover the direct
and indirect costs of evaluating planning documents submitted to the commission. In order to reduce the
administrative burden on the division and permittees, both the evaluation fees and the administration fee
will be billed annually.

The rule revisions adopted address the procedural mechanisms for accomplishing the mandatory
requirements of Senate Bill 01-214. The general structure of the smoke management program has been
established by statute. The commission's rule implements that legislative prescription; the revisions
adopted set a de minimus level for significant users of prescribed fire, establish a fee mechanism and
delineate the specifics of the program anticipated by the statute. The commission concludes that these
rule revisions are adopted to implement prescriptive state statutory requirements, where the commission
is allowed no significant policy-making options, for the purposes of § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. The commission
also concludes it has no discretion under state law to adopt alternative rules that differ significantly from
these revisions, for the purposes of § 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S. Accordingly, the commission did not include
in the record some of the portions of the rulemaking prerequisites addressed in § 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and
did not make specific determinations regarding the factors listed in § 25-7-110.8(1), C.R.S.

The commission took into consideration the appropriate items enumerated in § 25-7-109(1)(b), C.R.S.

X.M.    Adopted: June 19, 2003

Revision to Regulation Number 1: Section VIII.A

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

§ 25-7-107, C.R.S., provides the commission authority to review the current classification of any
attainment, non-attainment, or unclassifiable area within the State. In addition, § 25-7-109, C.R.S.,
provides the commission authority to adopt, promulgate, modify and/or repeal emission control
regulations that require the use of air pollution controls, including those regulations pertaining to
particulates [§ 25-7-109(2)(b), C.R.S.].




                                                                                                           75
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Basis and Purpose

Regulation Number 1 deals with opacity, particulate, and sulfur dioxide emissions from various sources.
This amendment to Regulation Number 1 revises Section VIII.A, wherein a clerical error, which
inadvertently materialized subsequent to the adoption of unrelated revisions to Regulation Number 1
during the August 2001 hearing, misrepresents the Denver area's PM-10 attainment/maintenance status.
Section VIII.A erroneously referred to the Denver PM-10 non-attainment area, even though the area has
been redesignated to “attainment/maintenance” for PM-10 (50 CFR 81.306). The EPA noted the
discrepancy and asked the State to fix it when it approved the Denver PM-10 maintenance plan in
September 2002 (40 CFR 52.320(c)(95)(i)(I)). This revision remedies the error.

X.N.    Adopted: July 21, 2005

Revision to Regulation Number 1, Particulate Matter, Smoke, Carbon Monoxide and Sulfur Oxides

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S ("the Act").

Specific Statutory Authority

§ 25-7-109, C.R.S., provides the Commission authority to adopt, promulgate, modify and/or repeal
emission control regulations that require the use of air pollution controls. [§ 25-7-109(1)(a), C.R.S.].

Basis and Purpose

Regulation Number 1 generally sets forth emission limitations, equipment requirements, and work
practices (abatement and control measures) intended to control the emissions of particulates, smokes,
and sulfur oxides from new and existing stationary sources. This revision to Regulation Number 1 is
intended to address Ft. Carson’s need to use obscurants during training and to respond to EPA’s August
8, 2001 letter regarding Regulation Number 1.Ft. Carson Obscurant usage

The Commission adopted Regulation Number 1, Section II.C. on July 17, 1998, to allow soldiers to train
with smoke or obscurants on Fort Carson, while requiring that visible emissions from these sources not
cross the Installation boundary. This was accomplished by limiting the generation of smoke and
obscurants to training areas at least three kilometers away from the Installation boundary. Section II.A of
the regulation sets a general standard prohibiting emission into the atmosphere of any air pollutant that is
in excess of 20% opacity. In recognition that smoke and obscurant generation in training by the United
States Army purposefully intends to be at or near 100% opacity, Section II.C was added to Regulation
Number 1 in 1998. Section II.C allowed the use of military smokes and obscurants at Fort Carson and the
Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site (PCMS) (both of which will be referred to as Fort Carson or the Installation
in this document), subject to specified limitations and conditions.

Since the 1998 adoption, Ft. Carson has documented that the three-kilometer restriction placed essential
training areas, such as drop zones for airborne operations, an urban war-fighting training complex, and a
Combined Arms Live Fire Exercise Range, off limits for smoke or obscurant training. Consequently, by
reducing the amount of available training area, the size and scope of training maneuvers were
constrained, which diminished how realistic these battlefield environments were for the soldiers. Due to
world events since 1998, and more particularly since September 11, 2001, the training demand at Fort
Carson expanded considerably and will likely remain at a high level for the foreseeable future, placing
even higher demand on limited training areas and threatening an inability to train soldiers to standard in a
timely manner. The 1998 version of the regulation also restricted the types of smoke and obscurants,
which did not provide realistic training for soldiers who would normally use other types of materials during
combat situations.




                                                                                                           76
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Therefore, the Commission has approved an amendment to the regulation to permit the use of more
training acreage on Fort Carson for smoke or obscurants, as well as to allow the use of current or new
Department of Defense- approved materials that create obscurant effects. Such changes to the regulation
will allow the flexible and realistic military training that the Army requires to responsively address lessons
learned from actual missions.

Specifically, the amendment includes the following changes:

• It replaces the specific reference to fog oil with a general reference to smoke or obscurants. This allows
the use of other materials and devices that may be used only after an authorized Department of Defense
official has approved them;

• It cites more accurately that the training manuals and guidance for using smoke and obscurants are
Department of Defense documents, not solely those from Fort Carson;

• It removes the daily fog oil limitations. The relationship of those limitations to protecting the national
ambient air quality standards appears nonexistent. In contrast, the additional specific controls on Fort
Carson’s use of smoke and obscurants imposed by the amended regulation provide a clear basis for
compliance with the basic requirement of Section II.C, i.e., no transport of emissions from smoke or
obscurants off Fort Carson;

• Similarly, the revision replaces the three-kilometer buffer zone, the scientific basis for which has been
called into question, with more realistic, yet still effective, planning and operating procedures that are
equally or more likely to prevent visible emissions from crossing the Installation boundary; and

• It imposes on Fort Carson specific, required measures to be executed before and during smoke and
obscurant training. These measures will preclude commencement of such training under unsatisfactory
conditions and stop such training if conditions unexpectedly deteriorate. In large part, imposition of these
measures recognizes the fact that the duty of the Commission to protect the quality of Colorado’s air is at
one with the goal of the Army to provide effective, realistic training. For the Commission, smoke and
obscurant use must be closely controlled to avoid off-Fort Carson transport. For the Army, training must
replicate combat conditions. Under those conditions, use of smoke and obscurants must likewise be
carefully controlled. If a plume travels too quickly or in unexpected directions, it will be ineffective at best,
counter-productive at worst.

To complement the specific operational requirements in the amended regulation, Fort Carson will revise
its internal training regulations to incorporate those requirements. Thus, violations of the requirements of
the regulation will be subject to military disciplinary or adverse administrative action as well as compliance
actions under Colorado and federal law.

Based on discussion between Ft. Carson, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment,
Air Pollution Control Division, and the Environmental Protection Agency, the Commission believes that
the NAAQS are protected if no visible emissions cross the Installation boundary. The Commission has
concluded that the more comprehensive and practical control measures in the amended regulation
provide as great or greater assurances that off-Installation transport will not occur as compared to the
limitations and conditions in the 1998 version. Thus, the amended regulation comports with section 110(l)
of the federal Clean Air Act.




                                                                                                               77
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


EPA August 2001 letter

EPA’s August 2001 letter raised several issues concerning Regulation Number 1. Some of EPA’s issues
concern changes contained in 1996 and 2001 SIP revisions that are currently pending before EPA. Other
EPA comments related to provisions of the regulation that are already approved into the SIP. The
Commission not only amends Regulation Number 1, it also hereby amends the SIP and withdraws some
portions of the previous SIP submittal as appropriate to respond to EPA’s comments. The reasons for
such changes are described here. The scope of the SIP revision is set out below in the section entitled
“Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan”.

Section III. Particulate Matter

EPA concern:

In a recent review of a Colorado operating permit, we ran into confusion regarding the applicability of
each subsection of Reg. 1, III.C.1. The problem stems from whether the categorization of a source as
either above or below 30 tons per hour process weight rate is based upon the actual process weight rate
at a given time for the unit, or based upon the maximum or design process weight rate for that unit. The
Division indicated that, while it interprets the regulation to read as the former, it is considering a revision
to the design rate interpretation. It would be appropriate and timely for the Division to include this change
now with the extensive Reg. 1 updates it is making. The Division would be required to provide reasoning
that shows that the change does not relax the SIP requirements.

The Commission agrees and has changed the section to read design rate. The division currently uses
design rate for this purpose so this change only clarifies the current practice.

Section VI. Sulfur Dioxide

A.1

EPA Concern:

This part seems to indicate that the emission limit averaging time for sources using fuel sampling will be
the frequency of the fuel sampling specified in the fuel sampling plan submitted pursuant to section
IV.B.2. We have two concerns with this requirement. First, the averaging time of the emission limit should
not vary based on the frequency of fuel sampling. Among other things, the fuel-sampling plan should
describe the test method used to sample the fuel as well as the frequency at which the fuel should be
sampled. The frequency of sampling should depend on whether or not the sulfur in the fuel is expected to
remain constant. If it is not constant, it should be sampled more frequently than if it does remain constant.
The amount of sulfur in the fuel will be considered a constant until the fuel is re sampled. If, for example,
a fuel is sampled once/day, that measured concentration of sulfur in the fuel will be assumed to remain
constant for all time periods of the day. Compliance with the emission limit is then based on the
concentration of sulfur in the fuel and the feed rate of the fuel to the source. Second, section IV.B.2
applies only to fossil fuel fired stem generators greater then 250 mm BTU/hour heat input, whereas the
SO2 emission limits in the section apply to different types of sources including sources less than 250 mm
BTU/hr heat input. Referencing Section IV.B.2 limits section VI.A.1.

The Commission agrees that the fuel sampling needs to be tied to the likelihood of the sulfur content in
the fuel changing. The sampling should be scheduled so that changes in the fuel sulfur are monitored.

A.3.f

EPA Concern:




                                                                                                             78
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The end of the first paragraph in Part f – Cement Manufacture- discusses “new sources” We question why
this paragraph mentions new sources since section VI.A applies to “existing sources”? Additionally,
section VI.B, which applies to new sources, does not contain emission limits for Cement Manufacture, Did
you intend the Emission limits for existing Cement Manufacture to apply to new sources?

New cement manufacturing plants will be covered by NSR permits that will include more stringent SO2
emissions limitations than are set out in Regulation Number 1. Therefore, the Commission is removing
the reference to new cement manufacturing plants in section VI.A.3.f as unnecessary and redundant.

A & B.1

EPA Concern:

These sections are written to make it seem that an existing permitted source (i.e. permitted before August
11, 1977) which makes a modification would not be required to meet either sections VI.A or VI.B. Section
VI.A only applies to sources constructed or modified prior to August 11, 1977. Section VI.B does not
apply to sources, which constructed or modified and have not been issued a permit prior to August 11,
1977. Usually regulations are written so that existing sources which modify have to meet more stringent
requirements, in this case Section VI.B. Is it your intent that existing permitted sources (i.e., permitted
before August 11, 1977) which make modifications should not be subject to either section VI.A or VI.B?

The Commission does not believe that there is an issue here. Section VI.A covers sources constructed or
modified prior to August 11, 1977. Section VI.B covers new sources defined as newly constructed or
modified which have not been issued an Emission Permit prior to August 11, 1977. Thus a source
permitted before August 11, 1977 which made a modification would continue to be subject to Section
VI.A. While EPA is correct that this does not subject the source to an increased stringency, the source
would be subject to the regulation.

B.4

EPA Concern:

Comments here are on Parts e and g pertaining to emission limit relaxation. The existing SIP-approved
rules limit SO2 emissions to 0.3 lbs/day. The State has revised the daily limit to 0.7 lbs/day. We view this
as a relaxation to the SIP. Section 110(l) of the Act provides that we cannot approve a revision to a SIP if
the revision would interfere with any applicable requirement concerning attainment and reasonable further
progress, or any other applicable requirement of the Act. Section 110(l) applies to both attainment and
unclassifiable areas, as well as non-attainment areas. The revisions may be a relaxation of existing
requirements at sources that impact PM-10 non-attainment areas. As a result, the revisions may
aggravate ambient air quality problems in the non-attainment area. The State should submit an analysis
indicating whether the relaxation in the emissions limit will impact the non-attainment area. Also, the state
should evaluate whether or not the emission limit relaxation would cause or contribute to a violation of the
SO2 increments. Finally, the State should investigate whether section 193 of the Act would apply to the
relaxed emission limitations. To the extent section 193 does apply, the SIP revision would have to provide
equivalent or greater emission reductions to offset any emissions increases.

Second, we do not understand why the rules indicate that “the Division shall not limit the determination of
barrels processed per day to 24 hour period.” What is the purpose of this sentence? This sentence is also
found in section VI.A.3.g.ii




                                                                                                          79
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The division attempted to model compliance with the new standard and found violations of the NAAQS.
The Commission agrees that the previous language should be reinstated to protect the NAAQS, because
the modeling did not support the relaxation of the standard. Such changes merely amend the state
regulation to match the language already contained in the SIP and, therefore, need not be submitted to
EPA as a SIP revision. Accordingly, the Commission is withdrawing the previously submitted language
currently pending before EPA as a SIP revision.

B.5

EPA Concern:

The state deleted this section, which limited emissions of any new source not specifically regulated by the
rule to 2 tons per day of SO2 and to utilize BACT. The same concerns we have in our comment in
Section B.4.e and g above also apply here.

The Commission had previously deleted this language because there is similar language in Regulation
Number 6, Section III.D. However, Regulation Number 6, Section III.D is not part of Colorado’s SIP.
Therefore the Commission will reinstate the language in Regulation Number 1 and delete the state-only
language in Regulation Number 6 in a future rule making.

Other changes

The division is also addressing several clean up and clarifying changes.

The open burning provisions of Section II.C are being reinstated in the regulation. Section II.C was
removed when the division created Regulation Number 9, Open Burning, Prescribed Fire, And Permitting.
The Commission never intended that Regulation Number 9 become part of the SIP, so to maintain the
integrity of the SIP the Commission is reinstating the open burning provisions in Regulation Number 1.

The Commission is removing the Gates and Rocky Flats boilers from Section VIII.A because these boilers
no longer exist or operate.

REVISIONS TO THE COLORADO STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN

The AQCC hereby revises and updates the SIP to reflect the July 21, 2005 amendments to Regulation
Number 1. Most of Regulation Number 1 is already in the SIP. Accordingly, only the revisions to the
provisions listed below adopted on July 21, 2005 are SIP revisions. For the convenience of EPA, and
because the Commission simultaneous made non-substantive numbering changes throughout Regulation
Number 1, a copy of Regulation Number 1, as adopted on July 21, 2005, is attached as Appendix A in its
entirety. Appendix A shall not be construed to be a SIP revision for any provision that has already been
incorporated into the SIP in its current form, except that EPA may adjust the numbering scheme in the
SIP to reflect the new numbering scheme. Only the following provisions are submitted as SIP revisions:

The unnumbered introductory paragraph that is the first paragraph of page 4 of Appendix A.

        Section I.A

        Section II.A.1

        Section II.A.3

        Sections II.C

        Section II.D




                                                                                                        80
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


        Section III.B.2.a

        Section III.B.3

        Section III.C.1

        Section II.C.1.a

        Section II.C.1.b

        Section IV.D.2

        Section IV.A.1

        Section IV.A.3.f

        Section VI.A.5

        Section VI.B.7

        Section VI.B.5

        Section VI.D.2.b

        Section VIII.A.5

        Section VIII.A.6

        Section IX.

In addition to submitting the revisions to the twenty-one sections of Regulation Number 1 listed above, the
Commission also retracts all previously submitted revisions to sections VI.B.4.e. and VI.B.4.g.(ii). On July
21, 2005 the Commission revised these two sections of Regulation Number 1 to match these two
provisions as already incorporated into SIP verbatim. Thus, the versions of these two sections previously
submitted as SIP revisions no longer match the state regulation and are hereby retracted as SIP
revisions. Since the versions of sections VI.B.4.e and VI.B.g.(ii) adopted on July 21, 2005 match the
provisions already approved into the SIP, it is not necessary to resubmit them as SIP revisions. In effect,
the Commission has merely made conforming changes to the state rule to conform to the approved SIP.

X.O.    Adopted: September 21, 2006

Revision to Regulation Number 1

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S (“the Act”).

Specific Statutory Authority

The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-109, C.R.S., provides the commission the
authority to adopt and revise rules and regulations that are consistent with state policy regarding air
pollution and with federal recommendations and requirements.




                                                                                                         81
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Basis and Purpose

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated a New Source Performance Standard for
Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incinerators (CISWI) at 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart CCCC on
December 1, 2000. The Commission incorporated the new standard by reference into Regulation Number
6, Part A in February 2002. At that time, there were no sources in Colorado subject to Subpart CCCC. In
September 2005 a new unit subject to Subpart CCCC commenced construction, which raised an issue
regarding performance-testing requirements for that unit.

Subpart CCCC of 40 CFR Part 60 applies to air curtain destructors that combust wood or yard wastes at
a commercial or industrial facility. Subpart CCCC includes performance-testing requirements for such
units. The Commission’s Common Provisions regulation defines air curtain destructors subject to 40 CFR
Part 60 as incinerators, which also subjects them to grain loading standards and performance testing
requirements under Regulation Number 1, Section III.B. It is not feasible, however, to conduct
performance testing on air curtain destructors for grain loading emissions as specified in Section III.B.
due to their lack of a stack.

In order to ensure that appropriate and reasonable emission standards and performance testing
requirements are applied to air curtain incinerators, the Commission has adopted revisions to Regulation
Number 1, Section III.B. clarifying that air curtain incinerators subject to 40 CFR Part 60 are not subject to
Section III.B.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical and grammatical errors throughout the regulation.

X.P.    Adopted: June 21, 2007

Revision to Regulation Number 1

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention
and Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S.

Statutory Authority

The Air Quality Control Commission is authorized to adopt these revisions to Regulation Number 9 and
Regulation Number 1 pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 25-7-106(7), (8) (2001) and 25-7-123(1) (2001).

Basis and Purpose

Prescribed Fire Regulation by Counties

Current regulations provide that the Division issues permits for a prescribed fire. This revision clarifies that
the Division, as well as local agencies that have been designated agents of the Division, may issue
wildland fire permits. The revision also exempts such permits issued by delegated local agencies from
State fees. The Division retains oversight of the program should a local agency fail to administer the
program as per Regulation Number 9.

The Division is authorized to delegate open burn regulation to local agencies under C.R.S. § 25-7-
111(2)(f). The Division may designate local agencies as agents of the state to administer powers and
duties such as open burn regulation. Limited delegations are good policy because local governments are
closest to the challenges of conducting such burning. They can work more closely and consistently with a
larger number of local landowners to ensure timely inspection of proposed projects, more effective
compliance assistance, and more effective smoke monitoring.




                                                                                                             82
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


This revision is necessary to avoid any confusion among land managers regarding which agency issues
burn permits. Over the past thirty years, the Division has designated agencies from twelve counties as
agents of the Division for the purpose of administering general open burn permitting. However, the
general open burn program is limited to de minimus wildland fuel piles (as defined in Regulation 9
Appendix A). The pine beetle epidemic has changed the needs of all stakeholders.

Certain Colorado counties are facing a critical need for tools to use in the management or disposal of
dead timber after forests have been devastated by the pine beetle epidemic. The spread of the epidemic
has been exponential, creating huge volumes of trees and woody debris to dispose of responsibly. The
United States Forest Service estimates that 50-60% of the mature lodge pole trees in Summit County are
dead or dying. The numbers climb to 80-90% in Grand County. Eagle County is also heavily impacted.
The risk of catastrophic wildfire has increased by these large stands of diseased or dead trees. While no
one approach will solve all the problems associated with dealing with the huge volume of trees to be
disposed of, responsible burning is one option.

Recently local county agencies and landowners in these areas have contacted the Division regarding the
burning of piles of logged trees under local permitting. The Division has been collaborating with local
counties affected by the mountain pine beetle epidemic to evaluate the prospect of delegating the
prescribed fire program to willing and able county agencies.

It now makes sense to designate local agencies to permit larger pile burns than possible under a general
open burning permit. The Division believes that in the face of the pine beetle kill challenge, if local
agencies are properly staffed and prepared to assume the responsibilities of permitting, it is appropriate
to consider developing a written delegation agreement. Thus, the Division is now working on a delegation
for the prescribed fire program to local agencies.

Training and Instructional Fires

Wildland fuel burns that have a training or instructional component but are large enough to constitute
prescribed fires will now be subject to Regulation 9 permitting requirements. Prescribed fires are burns
large enough to be over the de minimus low smoke risk threshold in Regulation 9, Appendix A. This
change will require the permittees to insure that the smoke is managed responsibly and that public health
is considered. Open burns causing de minimus smoke emissions that are used for training purposes are
still exempt from permitting requirements.

Prior to this revision, Regulations 1 and 9 exempted all training and instructional fires from permitting by
the Division. However, this exemption does not reflect the realities of wildfire suppression training. Few, if
any, burns are used exclusively for wildland fire suppression training. These burns accomplish several
objectives in addition to training, such as habitat improvement, weed control, and wildfire fuel control.
Most prescribed fires are used for training to some degree. Prior to this revision, these fires would
arguably be entitled to an exemption.

Prescribed fires are, by definition, large with significant emissions that can impact residents in the vicinity
of the fire. If the Division were to grant an exemption for every prescribed burn that involves training, few
prescribed fires would be permitted. Without a permit, the Division cannot ensure that the land manager is
implementing the controls that are necessary to protect public health and safety.

Wildland fire instructors usually consider applying for and obtaining a planned ignition fire permit from the
Division as part of the training exercise. This revision reflects that burn permits are necessary for burns
that exceed the de minimus smoke emissions threshold and the industry practice of requesting a permit.




                                                                                                            83
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


The Division is aware of instances where structures were ignited under the training exemption yet did not
receive a Demolition Notice from the Division prior to ignition to assure they were free from asbestos. This
revision does not require permitting for structural fire fighting training, though it does include a cross
reference to Regulation Number 8, Part B, Section III.E.1. concerning the possible need for a Demolition
Notice to assure the structure is free of asbestos before the structure is burned.

Further, these revisions will include any topographical and grammatical errors throughout the regulation.

X.Q.    Adopted: August 15, 2024

Revision to Regulation Number 1 related to the Repeal of Carbon Monoxide
Attainment/Maintenance Area

This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, § 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and
Control Act, §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S., and the Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission)
Procedural Rules, 5 Code Colo. Reg. section 1001-1.

Basis

As of September 22, 2023, each of Colorado’s carbon monoxide (CO) attainment/maintenance areas
(Colorado Springs, Denver, Fort Collins, Greeley and Longmont) demonstrated continued attainment of
the CO National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for their respective twenty-year maintenance
periods. Therefore, the Commission revised Regulation Number 1 to remove federal enforceability of CO
emission control requirements and clarified the applicability of CO requirements.

Statutory Authority

The statutory authority for these revisions is set forth in the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control
Act, C.R.S. § 25-7-101, et. seq. Specifically, § 25-7-105(1)(a) authorizes the Commission to adopt rules
necessary to implement the Clean Air Act, and to adopt and revise comprehensive State Implementation
Plans to assure attainment and maintenance of National Ambient Air Quality Standards. § 25-7-106
grants the Commission maximum flexibility in developing an effective air quality control program. § 25-7-
109, C.R.S., provides the Commission the authority to adopt and revise rules and regulations that are
consistent with state policy regarding air pollution and with federal recommendations and requirements.

Purpose

As of September 22, 2023, each of Colorado’s CO attainment/maintenance areas (Colorado Springs,
Denver, Fort Collins, Greeley and Longmont) demonstrated continued attainment of the CO National
Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for their respective twenty-year maintenance periods. As a result
of Federal and State regulations, CO concentrations have decreased dramatically since the 1990s. Since
1996, no state-operated monitors have a recorded a violation of the eight-hour CO standard. Therefore,
the Commission revised Regulation Number 1 to remove federal enforceability of CO emission control
requirements and retain requirements on a state only applicable basis.

Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the
regulation.




                                                                                                           84
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   5 CCR 1001-3
Air Quality Control Commission


Incorporation by Reference

§ 24-4-103(12.5) of the State Administrative Procedure Act allows the Commission to incorporate by
reference federal regulations. The criteria of § 24-4-103(12.5) are met by including specific information
and making the regulations available because repeating the full text of each of the federal regulations
incorporated would be unduly cumbersome and inexpedient. To fully comply with these criteria, the
Commission included, where necessary, reference dates to rules and reference methods incorporated in
Regulation Number 1.

Additional Considerations

Colorado has fulfilled its requirement to demonstrate a 20-year maintenance period for each of its CO
attainment/maintenance areas, as required under § 175a of the CAA. The CAA does not expressly
address all of the provisions adopted by the Commission. Rather, federal law establishes the NAAQS and
requires Colorado to develop a SIP and associated maintenance plans adequate to attain and maintain
the NAAQS, which Colorado has done. These revisions to Regulation Number 1 do not exceed or differ
from the federal act due to state flexibility in determining what control strategies to implement to reduce
emissions. The associated SIP revision is also consistent with the anti-backsliding provisions of § 110(l)
of the CAA. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

Further, the revisions to Regulation 1 are administrative in nature and are not intended to reduce air
pollution; therefore, the requirements of § 25-7-110.8 do not apply.

_________________________________________________________________________

Editor’s Notes

History
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2007.
Entire rule eff. 10/15/2024.




                                                                                                         85
